What Is V-Shaped Recovery?  

V-shaped recovery is a type of economic recession and recovery that resembles a "V" shape in charting. Specifically, a V-shaped recovery represents the shape of a chart of economic measures that economists create when examining recessions and recoveries. A V-shaped recovery involves a sharp rise back to a previous peak after a sharp decline in these metrics.





Key Takeaways

A V-shaped recovery is characterized by a quick and sustained recovery in measures of economic performance after a sharp economic decline.Because of the speed of economic adjustment and recovery in macroeconomic performance, a V-shaped recovery is a best-case scenario given the recession.The recoveries that followed the recessions of 1920-21 and 1953 in the U.S. are examples of V-shaped recoveries.


   Understanding V-Shaped Recovery  

V-shaped recovery is one of the countless shapes a recession and recovery chart could take, including L-shaped, W-shaped, U-shaped, and J-shaped. Each type of recovery represents the general shape of the chart of economic metrics that gauge the health of the economy. Economists develop these charts by examining the relevant measures of economic health, such as employment rates, gross domestic product (GDP), and industrial production indexes.



In a V-shaped recovery, an economy that has suffered a sharp economic decline experiences a fast and strong rebound. Such recoveries are generally spurred by a significant shift in economic activity caused by rapid readjustment of consumer demand and business investment spending. Because of the economy's rapid adjustment and quick recovery in the major metrics of macroeconomic performance, a V-shaped recovery can be thought of as a best-case scenario for an economy in recession.



Those interested in learning more about V-shaped recoveries and other financial topics may want to consider enrolling in one of the best investing courses currently available.


   Historical Examples of V-Shaped Recovery  

Two periods of recession and recovery in the U.S. stand out as examples of V-shaped recoveries.


  The Depression of 1920 to 1921  

In 1920, the U.S. entered a steep recession that was feared to have the potential to become a major depression. The U.S. economy was still adjusting from large shifts in government spending, industrial activity, and inflationary monetary policy that had been directed to the war effort during the World War I. It was also reeling from the impact of the Spanish Flu Pandemic of 1918–1920.



By 1919, World War I had ended, and more than 1.5 million soldiers returned home from the war, flooding the economy with new workers. Simultaneously, the federal government slashed spending by 65%, including closing munitions factories that were no longer needed for the war effort. The Federal Reserve's monetary policy didn't help because it hiked the discount rate, its main policy tool at the time, by 244 basis points (or 2.44%). Interest rates in the economy rose to 7% by mid-1920.



As a result, the postwar economy of 1920 experienced a decline in production of more than 32%, and unemployment surged to 12% as some businesses failed and many others saw a 75% drop in profits. The impact on the financial markets was devastating as the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) plummeted by 47% that year.



By modern standards, the monetary and fiscal policy responses were wholly inadequate to address the deep downturn. Unemployment insurance as we know it did not yet exist, though state and local committees to provide some relief were set up late in the recession.






The federal government's cut in spending throughout the 1920 recession, which would today be called contractionary fiscal policy, virtually guaranteed making the recession worse.



On the monetary policy front, the Federal Reserve increased rates in 1919 and early 1920, which is contractionary because it leads to fewer loans, reducing the money supply in the economy. The Fed then lowered interest rates late as the economy recovered in 1921, and by 1923, interest rates were 3%. The 1919–1923 monetary policy would be the reverse of what policymakers would likely do today.



These apparent policy missteps resulted in a sharp, V-shaped recovery as failing businesses were quickly liquidated and their assets reallocated to new uses, businesses, and industries. Prices and wages fell and adjusted to reflect the new structure of production and consumption in the post-war, post-pandemic, and increasingly urbanizing society.



Workers found new jobs in the new businesses and industries, and the economy quickly recovered and entered a renewed period of expansion known as the Roaring Twenties. As a result, the unemployment rate fell to 2.4% and gross national product (GNP) rose 4.2% per year through 1929.


  The Recession of 1953  

The recession of 1953 in the U.S. is another clear example of a V-shaped recovery. This recession was relatively brief and mild, with only a 2.2% decline in GDP and an unemployment rate of 6.1%. Growth began to slow in the third quarter of 1953, but by the fourth quarter of 1954 was back at a pace well above the trend. Therefore, the chart for this recession and recovery would represent a V-shape.



As in 1920-21, an important factor contributing to the quick recovery was the (by modern standards wildly inappropriate) policy response, or rather the lack thereof. The Fed's monetary policy response was underwhelming, with a half-percentage-point drop in the discount rate and a three-quarters point drop in the fed funds rate late in the recession. This represents the weakest monetary policy response in the post-World War II era. In terms of fiscal policy, the federal government took no steps to increase spending and overall tightened fiscal policy during the recession and recovery as measured by the high-employment budget surplus, an indicator of the direction of fiscal policy popular among economists.



Once again, a restrained approach to monetary and fiscal policy in the face of recession facilitated the V-shaped recovery that followed. Marring the recovery was the fact that unemployment continued to rise even after the end of the declared recession, peaking in September 1954, possibly due to the Fed's policy shift to interest rate cuts in 1954, which may have slowed the recovery.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2022




What Do Chart Patterns Look Like During an Economic Recovery?
Economic recoveries can last for many years. The shapes of the chart patterns that typically form range from sharp bounces to softer gradual curves. There are many factors that influence economic recoveries, so no two patterns are alike. Traders will often look to common formations such as a double bottom, V-shape, or U-shape when planning how to position themselves during these important inflection points.




What Is a Double-Dip Recession?
A double-dip recession occurs when there is a short-term recovery followed by another recession. Sometimes, active traders will use a V-, W-, or U-shaped chart pattern to mark the reversal in a primary trend. It is worth noting that a double-dip recession is a non-zero probability that can lead to severe losses for those who rely on reversal patterns for trying to time a market or economic reversal.




What Is a Double Bottom Pattern?
A double bottom is a reversal pattern that is used by followers of technical analysis to mark a major shift in the price of a security. More broadly, active traders also use chart patterns such as a double bottom, or V-shape, to mark major shifts in broad market indexes and changes in economic sentiment.




What Is a Reversal Pattern?
A reversal pattern is a chart pattern used by followers of technical analysis to mark the shift in the direction of the predominant trend. Common examples include double top, double bottom, triple top, triple bottom. Broadly speaking, reversal patterns often follow a V-, W-, or U-shape, depending on the conviction of market participants.


   The Bottom Line  

A V-shaped recovery is a type of economic recession and recovery that resembles a "V" shape in economists' and traders' charting. This type of recovery involves a sharp rise back to a previous peak after a sharp decline in these measurements, and is considered a best-case scenario because of the speed of adjustment and recovery in macroeconomic performance.



Such recoveries are usually powered by a significant shift in economic activity caused by rapid readjustment of consumer demand and spending on business investments.

What Is a VA Loan?  

A VA loan is a mortgage loan available through a program established by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) (previously the Veterans Administration). With VA loans, veterans, service members, and their surviving spouses can purchase homes with little to no down payment and no private mortgage insurance and generally get a competitive interest rate.





Key Takeaways

A VA loan is a mortgage offered through a U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs program.VA loans are available to active and veteran service personnel and their surviving spouses, and are backed by the federal government but issued through private lenders.VA loans have generous terms, such as no down payment, no mortgage insurance, and no prepayment penalties.


   How a VA Loan Works  

VA loans help active service members, veterans, and their surviving spouses become homeowners. They provide up to 100% financing on the value of a home. Eligible borrowers can use a VA loan to purchase or build a home, improve and repair a home, or refinance a mortgage.



The VA sets the qualifying standards, dictates the terms of the mortgages offered, and backs the loan, but doesn’t actually offer the financing. Instead, VA home loans are provided by private lenders, such as banks and mortgage companies.



When borrowers apply for a loan, they need to provide the lender with a certificate of eligibility from the VA. To get the certificate, you’ll have to produce service-related documentation, which can vary based on whether you are active duty or a veteran. The certificate can be obtained from the VA website. Although some of the lender’s own underwriting requirements still must be met, in most cases, VA loans are easier to qualify for than conventional loans.



VA loans, Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loans, and other loans insured by departments of the United States government have securitization through the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA), also known as Ginnie Mae. These securities carry the guarantee of the U.S. government against default.






Borrowers can apply for a VA loan more than once, but the funding fee increases when using a VA loan after your first time if the down payment is less than 5%. Fees range from 1.4% to 3.6% of the loan amount.


   VA Loan Terms  

The terms of VA loans are quite generous compared to other mortgages and even to other federal loan programs. Among the benefits:



No down payment is mandated unless required by the lender, or if the residence’s purchase price is above the established property value.
There is no private mortgage insurance requirement.
Closing costs are limited and may be paid by the seller.
There is no prepayment penalty if the borrower pays off the loan early.
Assistance is available from the VA to help borrowers avoid default.



Credit score minimum requirements differ slightly from lender to lender. The VA’s only credit requirement is for the borrower to be considered a satisfactory credit risk by a lender. The benefits of a VA loan are the same no matter which lender you choose.


   Types of VA Loans  

The VA offers several types of mortgage loans:


  Home Purchase Loans  

VA home purchase loans help veterans to buy a home at a competitive interest rate. These purchase loans often do not require a down payment or private mortgage insurance. 


  Cash-Out Refinance Loans  

Cash-out refinance loans allow mortgage holders to borrow against home equity to pay off debt, fund school, or make home improvements. This refinancing option offers a new mortgage for a larger amount than the existing note and converts home equity into cash.






The VA also offers adapted housing grants. These grants help veterans with a permanent and total service-connected disability to purchase or build an adapted home or modify an existing home for their disability.


  Interest Rate Reduction Refinance Loan  

Interest rate reduction refinance loans (IRRRLs), also known as VA streamline refinance loans, help borrowers obtain a lower interest rate by refinancing an existing VA loan. This is a VA-loan-to-VA-loan process that allows homeowners with an existing VA loan to refinance a fixed-rate loan at a lower interest rate or convert an adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) into a fixed-rate mortgage.


  Native American Direct Loan  

The Native American Direct Loan program helps eligible Native American veterans finance the purchase, construction, or improvement of homes on federal trust land. Reductions in interest rates also come with these loans.
What Is a Vacancy Rate?  

The vacancy rate is the percentage of all available units in a rental property, such as a hotel or apartment complex, that are vacant or unoccupied at a particular time.



A vacancy rate is the opposite of the occupancy rate, which is the percentage of units in a rental property that are occupied. High vacancy rates indicate that a property is not renting well while low vacancy rates can point to strong rental sales.



In addition to being used for real estate analysis, vacancy rates can also be applied to the employment sector.


   Understanding Vacancy Rates  

Vacancy rates are a very important determinant for property owners because they tell them how their buildings are performing when compared to the area's vacancy rate. These rates are also economic indicators as they paint a portrait of the broad market conditions.



In real estate, the vacancy rate most often represents units that are vacant and ready to be rented, units that have been turned off upon the exit of a tenant, and units that are not currently rentable because they are in need of repairs or renovations. Low vacancy rates are considered positive because it generally means people want to live in a particular area or building, while higher rates mean the opposite.






Low vacancy rates mean there are more occupied units, while high vacancy rates indicate people do not want to live in a certain building or area.



The rate is calculated by taking the number of vacant units, multiplying that number by 100, and dividing that result by the total number of units. The vacancy rate and occupancy rate should add up to 100%. So if an apartment building has 300 units, and 30 units are unoccupied, it means the vacancy rate is 10%.



In order to be used effectively, vacancy rates for one property should be used to compare to a similar one. It is not a fair comparison when putting a commercial office building next to a three-story apartment complex. Similarly, there may be different factors at play between vacancy rates for a small town and a major city, so these two areas may not be suitable to compare together.


   Real Estate Vacancy Rate Analysis  

A property owner can use vacancy rates as an analytic metric. Changes in the percentage of vacant units versus occupied units, the length of time occupied units are remaining active, or other rental conditions can provide guidance on how competitive a property owner has made the property. If a property owner charges significantly more or less than the rest of the rental market, this may be reflected in the overall vacancy rates. It can also provide information about the effects of price changes or advertising on unit occupancy.



While vacancy rates are commonly used to assess an individual property's performance, such as a hotel monitoring its nightly vacancy rate, aggregate vacancy rates are also used as economic indicators of a real estate market's overall health. Many firms that service the commercial real estate sector gauge the strength of the overall industry using metrics such as vacancy rates, rental rates, and construction activity.



In May 2019, real estate firm Jones Lang LaSalle reported that the U.S. real estate market continued to maintain its steady trends from 2018, with vacancy rates near historic lows. According to the report, office market vacancies hit about 5% in the year's first quarter. In the previous year, the firm projected a development boom that would outpace occupancy gains despite strong overall demand in the nation's office market. Of the largest metropolitan regions in the country, San Francisco's office market boasted the lowest vacancy rate in 2018, according to the data, at only 8.1%. New York's Westchester County, meanwhile, registered the highest vacancy rate at 24.9%.





Key Takeaways

The vacancy rate is the percentage of all available units in a rental property that are vacant or unoccupied at a particular time.Vacancy rates may be a result of unoccupied units ready to be rented or units not currently rentable because of neglect.Investors can use vacancy rates to determine a potential investment's worth by comparing it to comparable properties.The U.S. Census Bureau compiles residential vacancy data every quarter.


   Residential Vacancy Data  

The U.S. Census Bureau compiles its residential vacancy data in a quarterly report that provides three key figures: the rental vacancy rate, homeowner vacancy rate, and homeownership rate. In April 2019, the bureau reported national vacancy rates at 7% for rentals, while homeowner vacancy rates sat at 1.4% for the year's first quarter.



Both figures have remained fairly sustained in recent years after falling from all-time highs reached during the U.S. housing crisis, when rental vacancies peaked at 11.1% in 2009 and homeowner vacancies peaked at 2.9% in 2008.



The U.S. Census Bureau also collects data for the quarterly report regarding rental prices and property information. Much like data for commercial property markets, this information can be used—in conjunction with other information—to help determine the health of an economy's residential real estate market by examining changes in the number of units available and the average prices of available or occupied units.


   Investors and Vacancy Rates  

As noted above, vacancy rates play a big part in business and can help investors determine whether they're making a good move by putting their money into certain real estate deals.



For example, someone considering a large apartment complex as an investment may want to look at the building's vacancy rate before signing a contract. By comparing that building's vacancy rate with other comparable properties in the area, the investor can determine its performance and decide whether it's worth purchasing.


   Vacancy Rates in Employment  

In employment, the vacancy rate applies to the number of open positions a company currently has in comparison to the total number of positions available throughout the company. In other words, an employment-related vacancy rate can indicate the proportion of positions a company has allocated for the performance of certain duties that do not currently have an employee functioning in that space.



When related to other employment metrics, such as turnover or employee longevity, a vacancy rate can provide indications as to how successful a company is at advertising and filling open positions and retaining current employees.
What Is a Vacation Home?  

A vacation home is a secondary dwelling, other than the owner's principal residence, and is used primarily for recreational purposes including vacations or holidays. Also known as a recreational or secondary property or residence, a vacation home is often situated in a different location from the owner's primary residence. Because vacation homes are only used at certain times of year, many owners rent out these dwellings when they are not using them.





Key Takeaways

A vacation home is a property aside from one's primary residence, that is used mainly for vacationing.A vacation home is often located some distance away from the primary residence.A vacation property may also be rented out to produce additional income when it's not being used.There are operational costs to owning a vacation home even when you don't reside in the property such as property taxes, insurance, repairs, and interest on mortgages.A timeshare is an example of a vacation home that is shared and owned by several individuals, each with a designed period of time when they can use the property.


   Understanding Vacation Homes  

Property is divided into several different categories, usually for income tax purposes. The property that a homeowner lives in is referred to as their principal or primary residence. This property can be a home, apartment, condominium, or trailer. In order to qualify as a principal residence, the homeowner—whether that's a single individual, a couple, or a family—must live there for the majority of the year.



A vacation home, on the other hand, is much different. This type of property is often considered to be a second home. In most cases, it's in a different location than the owner's primary, principal residence. As noted above, the owner may use this property for recreational purposes including vacations, usually for a few days or weeks each year. Just like primary residences, vacation homes can take any form—the most popular being cottages or condos.



The distinction between primary residence and vacation property may be a blurred line to individuals, especially if they spend a considerable amount of time in both locations. However, the distinction is important for several financial matters.


   Renting Vacation Property  

Aside from providing the homeowner with a place to get away, vacation properties can also be rented out to produce additional income when they're not being used. In this case, a couple with a principal residence in Maine may own a vacation home in Florida. The couple may visit the Florida residence during Maine's coldest months while renting it out to other people for the rest of the year.



Although they're a great asset to have, vacation homes may be a financial challenge. For instance, a mortgage on a vacation home may have a higher interest rate than a loan on a homeowner's primary residence. That's because the owner may have a higher risk of default as individuals are more apt to save their primary residence than a temporary one in the event of a reversal of fortune. Owners of vacation property may also be taking on a second mortgage if the mortgage of the primary property has yet to be paid off yet.



This form of investment is also risky when considering the potential for rental income. Renting out a vacation property does not provide stable or consistent cashflow; even if the property is in a desirable location, most vacation property renters will service shorter-term customers compared to tenants or long-term residents. Therefore, landlords of vacation property must prepare for potential cashflow shortfalls and be available to step in and pay for expenses not covered by rental income.






Consider that the IRS may define vacation property differently than you. Therefore, you might consider yourself as owning or not owning vacation property, though the IRS may disagree.


   Tax Implications of Renting Vacation Property  

In order for a vacation home to be classified as a residence by the IRS, it must offer basic living accommodations including sleeping space as well as cooking and bathroom facilities. The home must also be used for personal purposes for more than 14 days and 10% of the total number of days the home is rented at a fair rental value. It is also increasingly popular to rent out vacation homes on a short-term basis through services like Airbnb or Vrbo.



The vacation home tax rules for a residence will apply if those requirements are met. Deductible expenses would include the rental portion of qualified home mortgage interest, real estate taxes, and casualty losses. Other expenses that can be deducted stem directly from the rental property and include advertising, payment of commissions, legal fees, and office supplies. Expenses related to the maintenance and operation of the rental property are also deductible.



If a vacation home is rented out for 15 days or more per year, the rental income must be reported to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) using Schedule E. Owners can also deduct any expenses associated with that residence. If the home is considered a personal residence, the deducted expenses cannot exceed the rental income. If the vacation home is not a personal residence, the deducted expenses can exceed this threshold, but the reported loss may be limited by passive-activity regulations.






Income must be reported if a vacation home is rented for 15 days or more each year.


   Financial Implications of Owning Vacation Home  

Owning a vacation home may be financially similar as owning a primary residence. In that light, there are many financial aspects of owning a vacation home, meaning the owner must consider more than just the purchase price of the piece of real estate they buy. Below are the most common operating costs a vacation home owner can expect to incur.



Mortgage Payments/Interest: If you took out a mortgage to purchase your vacation home, you'll need to make regular mortgage payments. In addition to paying off the principal balance of your loan, you'll incur interest expense that is heavier at the beginning of your loan when the principal balance of your mortgage is highest.
Property Taxes: Depending on the location and value of your property, you may pay thousands of dollars in property taxes each year. Property taxes are sometimes billed twice per year, though some property owners may be required to pay property taxes into an escrow account overseen by the mortgage lender to ensure prompt and timely remittance of property tax assessments.
Repairs/Maintenance: Maintaining a vacation home can be expensive. You'll need to budget for things like cleaning, landscaping, repairs, and upgrades. You can decide to perform all of these activities on your own or may contract these services to others (often at a higher cost).
Consumables: Though not a direct home cost, you'll also need to consider the cost of replenishing consumables each time you visit your vacation home; for example, you may have to refill the refrigerator if your stays are few and far between.
Insurance: You'll need to insure your vacation home in order to protect it from damage or theft. Your lender may require a certain level of coverage, and your insurance cost is often directly correlated to the value, location, and various risks of your property.



In addition to the ongoing expenses above, vacation home owners must consider how real estate properties may fluctuate in value. The market price of a property may increase or decrease based on prevailing macroeconomic conditions such as monetary policy, interest rates, or industry supply.


   Selling Vacation Property  

When the owner of a vacation home sells the property, they should consider implications on capital gains. In most cases, these capital gains must be reported to the IRS. That's because vacation homes are treated as personal capital assets. Owners are taxed on the profits of the sale, which are reported on Schedule D, for the year the property was sold. This form accompanies the owner's annual tax return.



The important distinction here is that this rule only pertains to vacation property, as taxpayers have a substantial tax benefit when selling a primary residence. When selling a primary residence, the taxpayer is exempt from the first $250,000 for single filers or $500,000 for couples filing jointly.


   Challenges of Owning Vacation Home  

Many aspects of owning a vacation home are appealing; after all, imagine escaping terrible weather or busy lifestyles on a whim to a second location you own. However, there are ongoing challenges on owning a vacation home that create financial and non-financial hurdles.



One of the primary logistical challenges of owning a vacation home is maintenance and upkeep. Vacation homes require regular maintenance and upkeep, even when you're not there. This can be especially challenging if your vacation home is located far away from your primary residence, making it difficult to handle any unexpected issues that may arise.



On a similar note, depending on the location of your vacation home, you may need to worry about issues such as hurricanes, flooding, or wildfires. These natural disasters can be expensive to deal with and can cause significant damage to your property. Your vacation property may also require emergency prevention actions (i.e. boarding up windows) on a short notice, something that may not be possible based on where your primary residence is located.



There are several emotional aspects to overcome when considering a vacation home. Depending on your lifestyle and schedule, you may not be able to use your vacation home as much as you would like. This can be frustrating, especially if you have decided to invest a substantial amount of money in the property. The opposite end of the spectrum occurs when its time to part ways with a vacation home. Similar to other forms of investments with sentimental value, it may be challenging to part ways with something you already own even if it makes the most financial sense for you and your legacy. Also, like other forms of investing, there are many elements of trading psychology.



Last, as discussed in sections above, there are several unique financial challenges of owning a vacation home. Rental income may not be stable, and relying on a third-party to rent your property will incur material management fees. You'll also incur potentially higher costs to operate your property if you don't plan on always being on site. For this reason, those considering a vacation home as an investment would do well to consider the true long-term financial implications of their purchase.






For looking for changes in vacation home trends over time, the United States Census Bureau collects data on vacation homes.


   Vacation Home vs. Investment Property  

Some vacation homes may be considered investment properties, but not all investment properties are vacation homes. As mentioned above, the owner of a vacation home may use it to produce extra rental income, making it an investment property when they're not using it.



In other cases, someone who buys an investment property may do so for the sole purpose of generating income either through rent or the future resale of the property. Unlike vacation properties, investment properties don't need to be homes. They can be residential as well as commercial properties, or even mixed-use structures—properties with both residential and retail spaces. These investors may never actually step foot inside of the property; however, they may still be able to generate a similar income stream compared to someone who owns and personally uses a similar type of asset.


   Vacation Property vs. Timeshare  

Vacation property and a timeshare are technically the same thing, However, not all forms of vacation property may have the same ownership structure as a timeshare.



Broadly speaking, most vacation homes are property that you own outright and can use whenever you want. You have full control over the property, and can use it as a second home or rent it out to generate income. You're also responsible for all the expenses discussed above that come along with owning and maintaining the property.



A timeshare, on the other hand, is a type of vacation ownership that allows you to use a property for a specific period of time each year. Timeshares are usually sold in increments of one week. For this reason, the cost of owning this form of a vacation home is much cheaper than 100% outright ownership of a vacation home. However, the investor in a timeshare may only reside in the vacation home for the period of time corresponding to their ownership.



Because of the limited time period an investor can reside in a timeshare, all timeshares are often considered vacation property. However, because different forms of vacation properties may be accompanied by shorter or longer periods of stay, not all vacation periods have the same restrictions as a timeshare.




Is It Smart to Own a Vacation Home?
This answer will be different for every individual, as some may use a vacation property more often or have greater disposable income that can be used towards a second property. Very broadly speaking, a vacation home may be a risky investment as it does not guarantee a steady income stream but does come with operational, ongoing costs. A vacation home is a more viable option for a more financially-secure individual with sufficient savings to cover these ongoing expenses.




How Far Is Too Far for a Vacation Home?
Again, this is up to each individual's preference. Some may prefer a short drive for a quick change of scenery. Others may prefer a flight to an entirely different geographical area. General guidelines to consider are how long of an average stay your vacation trips will be. For shorter trips, consider buying property easier to to get to (i.e. no more than 5 hours away). For longer trips, it may be more feasible and worthwhile to invest in property further away.




How Much of Your Net Worth Should You Spend on a Vacation Home?
Financial advisers may suggest no more than 10% to 15% of one's net worth should be tied to a vacation property. Another aspect to consider is ongoing, stable income. Make sure any vacation property investment expenses can be covered by monthly cash inflows whether via income, government benefits, or retirement savings.




Can I Live in a Vacation Home Year-Round?
In the eyes of the IRS, a vacation home is one where you've lived in the property for part of the year. Though you can logistically chose to live whereever for personal reasons, there are different tax implications for different real estate properties based on various rules including how long you reside in the property and whether you have exclusive control over the property.


   The Bottom Line  

A vacation home may be a relaxing getaway to enjoy a change of scenery. It may also be a financial investment to generate rental income. It may also end up being a financial burden with ongoing operating expenses and unstable revenue. As you consider a vacation home, consider how the IRS defines a vacation home, what the ongoing cost of ownership will be, and how often you truly expect to visit your additional property.
What Is a Validation Code?  

A validation code—also known as a CVV, CV2, or CVV2 code—is a series of three or four numbers located on the front or back of a credit card. It is intended to provide an additional layer of security for credit card transactions that take place online or over the phone.



Most credit card issuers place their validation codes on the back of the card, on the far-right side of the signature panel. On American Express (AXP) cards, however, the validation code is printed on the front of the card.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A validation code is one of the security measures deployed to reduce credit card fraud.It consists of a three or four-letter code printed on the front or back of a credit card.According to the latest Nilson Report, instances of credit card fraud have continued to rise, reaching nearly $29 billion in 2019 and projected to rise to around $38 billion by 2027, with the United States accounting for a significant portion of the most, recently reported losses, at nearly 34%.


   How Validation Codes Work  

As online shopping continues to grow in popularity, the threat of identity theft and other forms of credit card fraud has become increasingly severe. One measure taken to try to mitigate this risk is the use of validation codes when making credit card purchases.



In a typical transaction, a customer will be asked to provide their name, billing address, card number, expiration date, and validation code. Although many of these details, such as the name and address, could be obtained from other sources; the card number, expiration date, and validation code can theoretically only be obtained from possessing the card itself. As an added measure, the validation code is generally printed on the back of the card, making it more difficult for would-be thieves to glean all the necessary information from a single photograph of the credit card.



To further enhance these security measures, consumer protection laws prevent merchants from storing customers’ validation codes after a purchase has been made—although unscrupulous sellers may still record this information illegally. An additional measure of protection is provided by the personal identification numbers (PINs) which cardholders must enter when making payments using point-of-sale (POS) terminals.


   Real-World Example of a Validation Code  

Although security measures such as the validation code raise the difficulty of committing identity theft or making purchases using a stolen credit card, they are unlikely to deter a sufficiently motivated thief. In practice, credit card fraud has continued to climb in recent years, surpassing 393,207 reported cases in 2020. The United States is by far the most acutely affected country, representing nearly 34% of global cases.



Merchants are not allowed to store card security codes after a customer makes a purchase, which provides extra protection against credit card theft. Still, validation codes can be stolen, and cardholders should protect their card’s validation code just as they would protect the card number and expiration date. The validation code is a key piece of data that can enable thieves to make fraudulent transactions with someone else’s card.



However, if a thief does use a stolen card, the cardholder's liability is limited to $50 under the Fair Credit Billing Act (FCBA), depending on when the theft is reported. Customers who realize their card is missing, or detect suspicious or unauthorized purchases or other activity, should contact their credit card issuer immediately to report the problem and alert them to a possible case of fraud. The card issuer can then cancel or deactivate the card.
What Is a Valoren Number?  

A valoren number is an identification number assigned to financial instruments in Switzerland. These numbers are similar to the CUSIP numbers that are used in Canada and the U.S. A typical valoren number is between six to nine digits in length.


   How a Valoren Number Works  

A valoren number is a numeric code that intrinsically has no meaning. When a new valoren is needed, the next one from the list is simply allocated. An instrument's number indicates nothing about the instrument itself. Market data firms and other financial institutions throughout Europe typically refer to Swiss companies and/or store trade data on these companies using valoren numbers as a means of security identification. Unlike ISINs or CUSIPs, valoren numbers have no data implanted in the numbers.



Swiss Valoren numbers are issued by SIX Financial Information, a subsidiary of SIX Group, a multinational financial data vendor based in Zurich, Switzerland. The company also has offices in over 20 countries. The company provides market data, which it gathers from the world's major trading venues directly and in real-time. Its database has structured and encoded securities administration data for more than 20 million financial instruments. 



SIX Financial Information was originally called Telekurs. In 1996, the firm was restructured into a holding company, and it launched an expansion of its product range. In 2007, Telekurs acquired part of the Fininfo Group. In 2008, The Telekurs Group merged with SWX Group, SIS Swiss Financial Services Group, and SEGA Intersettle to form SIX Group. Telekurs Financial was renamed to SIX Telekurs and became the Financial Information division of SIX Group. On April 23, 2012, the use of the "Telekurs" name was phased out.



A valoren number can be used for a number of purposes in identifying a financial instrument. Globally, a valoren number is allocated for any type of financial instrument which meets the allocation rules. It can be used in conjunction with the Market Identifier Code (MIC) and the currency code to uniquely identify a traded instrument. It can also be used in transaction reporting and for position keeping.



In Switzerland and Liechtenstein, the valoren number is the main identifier in the Swiss Value Chain; it is used as the main identifier by financial institutions throughout the region and beyond. Valoren numbers for derivatives may be reused after the derivative expires.
What Is Valuable Papers Insurance?  

Valuable papers insurance is a special type of property-casualty insurance. Valuable papers insurance reimburses the policyholder for the monetary value of any valuable papers such as wills, trusts, or corporate charters that are lost for any reason, though it cannot actually replace these papers. It is often purchased by corporations, small businesses, and wealthy people.





Key Takeaways

Valuable papers insurance reimburses the policyholder for the monetary value of any valuable papers such as wills, trusts, or corporate charters that are lost for any reason.Valuable papers insurance coverage is always limited to either the actual monetary value of the papers themselves or their replacement value.Valuable papers insurance usually excludes documents stored electronically, as well as money and securities certificates.Insurers may require certain safety measures, such as safes or chemical fire extinguishers, as a condition of coverage.Valuable papers insurance may be included in some commercial insurance policies, with a lower sub-limit than the policy maximum.


   Understanding Valuable Papers Insurance  

Valuable papers insurance protects businesses from the expensive and often time-consuming process of replacing important documents. The coverage limits for valuable papers insurance can be very high in some cases. However, the coverage is always limited to either the actual monetary value of the papers themselves or their replacement value. Furthermore, the papers insured must always be carefully guarded in order to file a claim.



For example, let's say a company's headquarters is destroyed in a flood. The company's property deeds, documents related to a court case the company was once involved in, as well as information related to personnel and other important papers were all destroyed in the flood. This company has valuable papers insurance, so it files a claim and is reimbursed for these documents, thus saving the company money as well as time and effort involved in reconstructing the evidence from the court case. Medical and legal records are often the toughest to reproduce, as well as documents related to research and development.



If a business's commercial property policy does not include valuable papers, those items can be insured with an endorsement, which generally provides the same, or in some cases broader, coverage than what is included in a typical property-casualty insurance policy.






Valuable papers insurance typically does not cover electronic files, money, or securities.


   What Is and Isn't Covered  

Valuable papers policies are used for businesses that rely on highly sensitive documents, such as medical records, contracts, accounting data, or blueprints. Since these documents may be essential to a company's business operations, a valuable papers policy can offset the losses if they are damaged or lost.Most insurance policies for valuable papers specifically exclude documents stored electronically. Even though many businesses keep a wealth of important records in electronic form, few property policies provide coverage for damage to electronic data. However, businesses can protect this information with coverage specifically for electronic documents. Money and securities are also excluded.


   Mitigating the Risk of Loss  

Most policies will state the conditions of coverage for valuable papers. For example, an insurance company might require a company to store their essential records in a safe, behind locked doors, or beneath a chemical extinguishing system. If a company manager forgets to store papers safely, the accidental destruction of those papers may not be covered by their insurance policy.



Insurers may also require important information to be regularly backed up and archived, creating duplicates of the most essential records. If records are backed up electronically, they must be stored with the same care and precision as paper records.




What Is Covered By Valuable Papers Business Insurance?
Valuable papers insurance covers the loss or damage of important papers such as medical records, contracts, property deeds, blueprints, or any other important documents. Valuable papers insurance generally does not cover the loss of money, securities certificates, or electronic records.




What Is a Monoline Policy?
A monoline policy is an insurance policy that only covers one specific type of risk. For example, some monoline insurers may specialize in whole life insurance, auto insurance, or specific types of property.




How Can I Insure My Electronic Documents?
Electronic documents can be insured through a separate endorsement, called a data loss policy. These policies cover traditional sources of damage, such as fire or flooding, as well as hacking, viruses, and hard drive crashes. However, such policies typically do not cover wear and tear, or losses due to improper file storage.
What Is Valuation?  

Valuation is the analytical process of determining the current (or projected) worth of an asset or a company. There are many techniques used for doing a valuation. An analyst placing a value on a company looks at the business's management, the composition of its capital structure, the prospect of future earnings, and the market value of its assets, among other metrics.



Fundamental analysis is often employed in valuation, although several other methods may be employed such as the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) or the dividend discount model (DDM).





Key Takeaways

Valuation is a quantitative process of determining the fair value of an asset, investment, or firm.In general, a company can be valued on its own on an absolute basis, or else on a relative basis compared to other similar companies or assets.There are several methods and techniques for arriving at a valuation—each of which may produce a different value.Valuations can be quickly impacted by corporate earnings or economic events that force analysts to retool their valuation models.While quantitative in nature, valuation often involves some degree of subjective input or assumptions.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Valuation  

A valuation can be useful when trying to determine the fair value of a security, which is determined by what a buyer is willing to pay a seller, assuming both parties enter the transaction willingly. When a security trades on an exchange, buyers and sellers determine the market value of a stock or bond.



The concept of intrinsic value, however, refers to the perceived value of a security based on future earnings or some other company attribute unrelated to the market price of a security. That's where valuation comes into play. Analysts do a valuation to determine whether a company or asset is overvalued or undervalued by the market.


   Types of Valuation Models  

Absolute valuation models attempt to find the intrinsic or "true" value of an investment based only on fundamentals. Looking at fundamentals simply means you would only focus on such things as dividends, cash flow, and the growth rate for a single company, and not worry about any other companies. Valuation models that fall into this category include the dividend discount model, discounted cash flow model, residual income model, and asset-based model.
Relative valuation models, in contrast, operate by comparing the company in question to other similar companies. These methods involve calculating multiples and ratios, such as the price-to-earnings multiple, and comparing them to the multiples of similar companies.



For example, if the P/E of a company is lower than the P/E multiple of a comparable company, the original company might be considered undervalued. Typically, the relative valuation model is a lot easier and quicker to calculate than the absolute valuation model, which is why many investors and analysts begin their analysis with this model.


   Types of Valuation Methods  

There are various ways to do a valuation.


  Comparables Method  

The comparable company analysis is a method that looks at similar companies, in size and industry, and how they trade to determine a fair value for a company or asset. The past transaction method looks at past transactions of similar companies to determine an appropriate value. There's also the asset-based valuation method, which adds up all the company's asset values, assuming they were sold at fair market value, to get the intrinsic value.






In investments, a comparables approach is often synonymous with relative valuation.



Sometimes doing all of these and then weighing each is appropriate to calculate intrinsic value. Meanwhile, some methods are more appropriate for certain industries and not others. For example, you wouldn't use an asset-based valuation approach to valuing a consulting company that has few assets; instead, an earnings-based approach like the DCF would be more appropriate.


  Discounted Cash Flow Method  

Analysts also place a value on an asset or investment using the cash inflows and outflows generated by the asset, called a discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis. These cash flows are discounted into a current value using a discount rate, which is an assumption about interest rates or a minimum rate of return assumed by the investor.






DCF approaches to valuation are used in pricing stocks, such as with dividend discount models like the Gordon growth model.



If a company is buying a piece of machinery, the firm analyzes the cash outflow for the purchase and the additional cash inflows generated by the new asset. All the cash flows are discounted to a present value, and the business determines the net present value (NPV). If the NPV is a positive number, the company should make the investment and buy the asset.


  Precedent Transactions Method  

The precedent transaction method compares the company being valued to other similar companies that have recently been sold. The comparison works best if the companies are in the same industry. The precedent transaction method is often employed in mergers and acquisition transactions.


   How Earnings Affect Valuation  

The earnings per share (EPS) formula is stated as earnings available to common shareholders divided by the number of common stock shares outstanding. EPS is an indicator of company profit because the more earnings a company can generate per share, the more valuable each share is to investors.



Analysts also use the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio for stock valuation, which is calculated as the market price per share divided by EPS. The P/E ratio calculates how expensive a stock price is relative to the earnings produced per share.



For example, if the P/E ratio of a stock is 20 times earnings, an analyst compares that P/E ratio with other companies in the same industry and with the ratio for the broader market. In equity analysis, using ratios like the P/E to value a company is called a multiples-based, or multiples approach, valuation. Other multiples, such as EV/EBITDA, are compared with similar companies and historical multiples to calculate intrinsic value.


   Limitations of Valuation  

When deciding which valuation method to use to value a stock for the first time, it's easy to become overwhelmed by the number of valuation techniques available to investors. There are valuation methods that are fairly straightforward while others are more involved and complicated.



Unfortunately, there's no one method that's best suited for every situation. Each stock is different, and each industry or sector has unique characteristics that may require multiple valuation methods. At the same time, different valuation methods will produce different values for the same underlying asset or company which may lead analysts to employ the technique that provides the most favorable output.



Those interested in learning more about valuation and other financial topics may want to consider enrolling in one of the best personal finance classes.




What Is an Example of Valuation?
A common example of valuation is a company's market capitalization. This takes the share price of a company and multiplies it by the total shares outstanding. For example, if a company's share price is $10, and the company has 2 million shares outstanding, its market capitalization would be $20 million.




How Do You Calculate Valuation?
There are many ways to calculate valuation and will differ on what is being valued and when. A common calculation in valuing a business involves determining the fair value of all of its assets minus all of its liabilities. This is an asset-based calculation.




What Is the Purpose of Valuation?
The purpose of valuation is to determine the worth of an asset or company and compare that to the current market price. This is done so for a variety of reasons, such as bringing on investors, selling the company, purchasing the company, selling off assets or portions of the business, the exit of a partner, or inheritance purposes.


   The Bottom Line  

Valuation is the process of determining the worth of an asset or company. Valuation is important because it provides prospective buyers with an idea of how much they should pay for an asset or company and for prospective sellers, how much they should sell for.



Valuation plays an important role in the M&A industry, as well as in regard to the growth of a company. There are many valuation methods, all of which come with their pros and cons.
What Is Valuation Analysis?  

Valuation analysis is a process to estimate the approximate value or worth of an asset, whether its a business, equity, fixed income security, commodity, real estate, or other assets. The analyst may use different approaches to valuation analysis for different types of assets, but the common thread will be looking at the underlying fundamentals of the asset.





Key Takeaways

Valuation analysis seeks to estimate the fair value or intrinsic value of an asset, such as business or a security.Valuation analysis relies on several different methodologies and models in order to come up with a single price based on different inputs or variables.Different valuation processes will be employed depending on the type of asset being considered, whether that asset produces cash flows, and what the purpose of the valuation is for.


   Understanding Valuation Analysis  

Valuation analysis is mostly science (number crunching), but there is also a bit of art involved because the analyst is forced to make assumptions for model inputs. The value of an asset is basically the present value (PV) of all future cash flows that the asset is forecasted to produce. Inherent in the estimation model for a company, for example, is a myriad of assumptions regarding sales growth, margins, financing choices, capital expenditures, tax rates, discount rate for the PV formula, etc.



Once the model is set up, the analyst can play with the variables to see how valuation changes with these different assumptions. There is no one-size-fits-all model for assorted asset classes. Whereas a valuation for a manufacturing company may be amenable to a multi-year DCF model, and a real estate company would be best modeled with current net operating income (NOI) and capitalization rate (cap rate), commodities such as iron ore, copper, or silver would be subject to a model centered around global supply and demand forecasts.


   How Valuation Analysis is Used  

The output of valuation analysis can take many forms. It can be a single number, such as a company having a valuation of approximately $5 billion, or it could be a range of numbers if the value of an asset is largely dependent on a variable that often fluctuates, such as a corporate bond with a high duration having a valuation range between par and 90% of par depending on the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond. Valuation can be expressed as a price multiple. For example, as a tech stock is trading at a price-to-earnings (P/E) multiple of 40x, a telecom stock is valued at 6x enterprise value-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EV/EBITDA) or a bank is trading at 1.3x price-to-book (P/B) ratio. Valuation analysis can also take the final form of as asset value per share or net asset value (NAV) per share.


   Valuation and Intrinsic Value  

Valuation analysis is important for investors to estimate intrinsic values of company shares in order to make better-informed investment decisions. Fair values of bonds do not deviate much, if at all, from intrinsic values, but opportunities do arise once in a while in the case of financial stress of a heavily indebted company. Valuation analysis is a useful tool for comparing companies within the same sector or estimating a return on an investment over a given time period.
What Is a Valuation Clause?  

The term valuation clause refers to a provision in some insurance policies that specify the amount of money the policyholder will receive from the insurance provider if a covered hazard event occurs. This clause stipulates a fixed amount to be paid in the event of a loss for an insured property. There are several types of valuation clauses that can be written into a policy, including actual cash value and replacement cost among others.





Key Takeaways

A valuation clause is a provision written in an insurance policy that determines the fixed amount a policyholder may receive in the event of a claim.There are many different methodologies used in a valuation clause, such as agreed value, replacement cost, or stated amount.Actual cash value is the most commonly utilized language, where the amount paid for a claim is equal to the insured's pre-loss value.


   Understanding Valuation Clauses  

As noted above, valuation clauses are insurance policy provisions. They are written into insurance contracts and state the amount the insurer reimburses to the insured party in the event of a loss of property. Valuation clauses are based on an array of different factors about the specific property and individual budget requirements.



Determining the cost of articles covered by insurance is an essential but time-consuming step in getting insurance coverage. By understanding how much an item is worth, the policyholder is better able to determine the level of coverage they require. Policyholders should also determine their coverage based on maximum foreseeable loss.



Insurance providers may also require a review by an appraiser or specialist to determine the value of a property before underwriting. This requirement is particularly true in cases where the policyholder gets insurance coverage for classic, antique, customized, and one-of-a-kind property, as well as for historic structures or items. An appraisal may be required if a policyholder tries to get insurance in a dollar amount that exceeds the assessed value of a property.



There are several key factors that policyholders should be aware of when it comes to the valuation clauses associated with their insurance policies. For instance:



Insured parties should carefully review any policy with a valuation clause so they understand the circumstances when a benefit payment is necessary.
Policyholders should also do a regular review of the listed dollar value for the property.



Keep in mind that values that do not keep up with the reasonable cost of living, inflation, or changes to the local building code cost increases may not adequately protect the policyholder. 






In some cases, the insurance provider may expect the insured to periodically update the value of items covered in the policy using a full reporting clause.


   Special Considerations  

Valuation clauses are also common outside the insurance industry. As such, they are used in contracts to highlight the value of assets. For instance, corporations may put valuation clauses in the contract for mergers and acquisitions (M&A). In other cases, these clauses may be used in distribution or licensing agreements between two companies.


   Types of Valuation Clauses  

Two of the most common types of valuation clauses are called the actual cash valuation clause and the replacement cost valuation clause. There are other types as well—all of which are discussed in more detail below.


  Actual Cash Valuation Clause  

The actual cash valuation clause or actual cash value (ACV) is the most frequently used method to calculate property benefit values in a homeowners policy. This value is based on the cost of repairing or replacing a piece of property, such as a boat, a car, or a home, to its pre-loss status. The insurer factors the depreciation of the property into its value. Depreciation determines how much of an asset's useful lifespan value remains and will impact the benefit value due to the policyholder in the case of a covered loss.



Another consideration of an ACV policy is the valued policy law (VPL). Arkansas, California, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming all have valued policy laws.



Under this regulation, insurance providers must pay the full, listed face value of a policy in the event of a total loss, without consideration of the depreciated actual cash value. The law requires the payment of the full face value of the policy even if the value at the time of loss is a lower dollar amount. However, in some situations where there is concurrent causation for damage, the insurer may issue a reduced payment.


  Replacement Cost Valuation Clause  

The replacement cost is the amount necessary to repair or replace a piece of property to the same or equal level of quality as the original property. These costs may change, as the prices in the marketplace change. Depreciation of the property is not a consideration in replacement cost coverage. However, unless a policy also contains a law and ordinance provision, it may not include enough coverage to satisfy all the costs of rebuilding a property.



The law and ordinance clause increases the replacement benefit amount by a percentage to allow for changes to the state building code. This provision becomes crucial in the case of a covered hazard that destroys the property to 50% or more. Most local building codes will require structures that receive damages totaling 50% or more of the home's insured value to be demolished and rebuilt to current codes. Policyholders must understand that coverage only applies to the damaged portion of a structure.


  Other Types of Valuation Clauses  

The following are some other, less common types of valuation clauses:



Stated Valuation Clause: Also known as a stated value, this amount is usually found in automobile coverage. It refers to the maximum value placed on the property by the policyholder once the contract is written. This is the amount a buyer pays for the property if you sell it. However, most stated value policies contain wording that, in the case of loss, allows the insurer to pay the lesser of either the stated value or actual cash value.
Agreed Valuation Clause: An agreed value clause policy uses an agreed amount provision to stipulate the value of an insured property. The clause, which is found in the damages section of the policy, should define what happens to the property in the case of a total loss. The agreed-upon value may be a fair market worth or another sum decided upon by both the insurer and the insured party.
Market Valuation Clause: This clause is also referred to as a market value clause. It is part of a policy that defines the value of the covered property at a market rate, rather than actual or replacement cost. Such a clause would set the value a policyholder could get for the loss of an asset at the amount they could receive by selling it on the open market.


   Example of Valuation Clauses  

Here's an example of how valuation clauses work. Let's say a driver takes out a policy with ABC Insurance on their new car. The car insurance company puts a provision into the policy indicating the amount it will reimburse the driver if the car is totaled in a no-fault accident. The company may introduce an actual cash value, which is the total value less depreciation.




Why Are Valuation Clauses Important?
Valuation clauses are provisions that insurers put into insurance contracts. They inform the insured party how much they receive if they file a claim. These clauses can range in type from the actual cash value to the replacement cost value among others.In areas other than insurance, they indicate the value of assets that are described in a contract. For instance, a buyer may outline the amount of money they are willing to pay to the seller of property and equipment.




Do Valuation Clauses Only Apply to the Insurance Sector?
No. Although they are very common in insurance, valuation clauses are also applied in different types of business contracts. They may be used in corporate mergers and acquisitions (M&A), distributions, and licensing agreements. Valuation clauses are put into place in order to determine the value of assets between two or more parties.




What Effects Do Valuation Clauses Have on Insurance Claims?
Valuation clauses have a big impact on insurance claims. They indicate the type of valuation method that an insurance company uses to reimburse their clients when a claim is filed. These methods include actual cash, replacement cost, stated value, agreed value, and market value. Since they are written into the contract, policyholders should be well aware of how much they can expect to receive if and when they file a claim with the insurer in the event of loss.


   The Bottom LIne  

Insurance can be a complicated and complex issue. There are different nuances that consumers need to understand about their policies before they sign on the dotted line. For instance, you should be aware of any valuation clauses in your policy. These are provisions that the insurer writes into your contract that will tell you the value of your property when and if you file a claim. This is the amount you'll receive in the event of a loss.
What is the Valuation Mortality Table  

A valuation mortality table is a statistical chart that is used by insurance companies to calculate the statutory reserve and cash surrender values of life insurance policies.



A mortality table shows the death rate at any given age in terms of the number of deaths that occur for every thousand individuals of that age; it provides statistics regarding the likelihood that a person of a given age will live X number of years. This allows the insurance company to assess risks in policies.


   Understanding Valuation Mortality Table  

A valuation mortality table typically has a safety margin integrated into the mortality rates to protect the insurers. Life insurance companies use valuation mortality tables to determine the amount of liquid assets that they are required by statute to set aside for claims and benefits - the legal reserve.





Key Takeaways

A valuation mortality table is a statistical chart used by insurance companies to calculate reserves for claims and benefits and cash surrender value of life insurance policies.The tables integrate a monetary cushion to protect insurers from going bankrupt.Algorithms to calculate actuarial age take a complex mix of factors, including age and family history, into account.


   How Mortality Tables Work  

Section 7520 of the Internal Revenue Code requires the use of a set of actuarial tables for valuing annuities, life estates, remainders, and reversions, for all purposes under Title 26 except for certain purposes stated in the statute or provided by regulation.﻿﻿﻿ These are available on the IRS website. The Commissioners Standard Ordinary (CSO) mortality table, prepared by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) in conjunction with the Society of Actuaries (SOA), is used to calculate life insurance ages acrss 50 states.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



Mortality tables are used by insurers to determine your actuarial life expectancy, which can be more or less than how long you'll live. But over millions of people the tables are remarkably accurate in valuing insurance premiums and payouts.


   Example of Valuation Mortality Table  

Say, for example, a male non-smoker wants to buy a $100,000 life insurance policy at age 40. The insurer estimates with mortality tables that person will live, on average to age 81. So the insurer can count on 41 years of premium payments before it has to pay the death benefit. Maybe you'll die tomorrow or live to age 100. It doesn't matter to the insurer, which sells tens of thousands of policies every year and can count on the large number of policies to hew to the average on which it based the premiums.



This is a simple example of how actuaries look at longevity, but there's much more to it. Actuaries have algorithms that take into account many other factors, for example, whether you have high blood pressure or cholesterol, your family history and more. However, the four major factors affecting longevity are: age, gender, smoking and health.



Consumers can use online calculators to get a rough estimate of their own actuarial age. This can be useful in financial planning and for when you decide to begin collecting Social Security, for example.
What Is a Valuation Period?  

The valuation period is the interval at the end of a given period of time during which value is determined for variable investment options. Valuation is the calculation of a product’s value and is typically done by appraisers at the end of each business day.





Key Takeaways

The valuation period is the time at the end of a given period when the value is determined for variable investment options.The valuation period applies to certain types of life insurance policies and annuities.An annuity is a financial product that can offer investors a source of steady income during retirement.There are two value formulas (future and present) when it comes to annuities and valuation.Calculating the future value of the annuity requires calculating the future value of each cash flow in an annuity over a period of time.


   Understanding the Valuation Period  

The valuation period applies to investment products like variable annuities and certain life insurance policies.



Annuities are financial products that offer investors a source of income during retirement. Variable annuities are annuity products that provide payouts and are variable dependent on the value of the annuity's investments. The owner of the annuity can choose their investment products and designate percentages or whole dollar amounts toward the various investment vehicles.






The contract value of a variable annuity will depend on the performance of its investments.



A variable annuity offers the potential for greater earnings and larger payouts, but because of the day-to-day valuation, variable annuities involve more risk than other kinds of annuities, such as fixed deferred annuities.


   Calculating Present and Future Values   

In thinking about valuation, it’s helpful to understand the process. When it comes to valuation and annuities, there are present and future value formulas.


  Present Value  

The present value of an annuity is today’s value of future payments from an annuity when factoring in a specified rate of return or discount rate. The annuity's future cash flows are cut at the discount rate. The higher the discount rate, the lower the present value of the annuity. 



This calculation relies on the concept of the time value of money, which says that a dollar now is worth more than a dollar earned later. This concept means that receiving money today is worth more than receiving the same amount of money in the future because the money today can be invested at a given rate of return.



For example, receiving a lump sum of $10,000 today is worth more than getting $1,000 per year for ten years. The lump sum, if invested today, is going to be worth more at the end of the decade than incremental investments of $1,000 each. This is true even if invested at the same rate of interest.


  Future Value  

Knowing the future value (FV) of an ordinary annuity formula is useful when an investor knows how much they can invest per period for a certain time period and wants to find out how much they will have in the future. FV is also useful knowledge when making payments on a loan as it helps to calculate the total cost of the loan.



Calculating the future value of the annuity requires calculating the future value of each cash flow over a period of time. Annuities have a number of cash flows. The future value calculation requires taking the value of each cash flow, factoring in the original investment and interest rate, and adding these values together to determine the accumulated future value.


   Example of a Valuation Period  

When an annuity is valued, the present and future values are calculated. It is important to remember that interest rates and inflation are factored into the calculations.




What is Annuity Due?
An annuity due is when the payment is required at the beginning of the period. The most common example is when a landlord requires rent to be paid at the beginning of the rental cycle. A different, more complicated example would be a whole life annuity due, where an insurance company requires payments at the beginning of each period, just like the landlord example.




What Is the Difference Between an Annuity Due and an Ordinary Annuity?
The main difference between an annuity due and an ordinary annuity is when the payments are required. Annuity due payments are required at the beginning of the period, whereas an ordinary annuity requires the payment at the end. Annuity due payments tend to favor the recipient, as it provides them access to capital at the beginning of the period, which they can then use to invest.




What Is the Valuation of a Corporation?
The valuation of a corporation is different from an annuity valuation. There are many more facets that must be considered when valuing a corporation such as assets, debts, revenues, the potential for expansion, and others. A corporation can be valued to determine a fair stock price, when paying out equity to shareholders, or when entering or considering a liquidity event.




What Is an Annuity Period?
An annuity period is when the annuity starts making payments to the investor. This is different from the accumulation period of an annuity, which is when the investor is making payments on the annuity.
What Is a Valuation Premium?  

A valuation premium is a life insurance calculation that determines the charges for premiums based on the company's liabilities. Insurance companies charge monthly premiums or fees to their policyholders, and in exchange, provide financial coverage for an event, such as death. The premiums that are collected from their customers—called reserves—are usually held in short-term term investments.



When determining the valuation premium, the insurance company must ensure that it has adequate policy reserves to cover payouts, such as a death benefit. An insurance company's policy reserve represents today's value—or the present value—of all of the future cash flows or premiums it's due to receive. The total amount of liability for an insurer is the sum of the reserves for every individual policy.





Key Takeaways

A valuation premium is a rate set by a life insurance company based on the value of the company's policy reserves.When determining the valuation premium, the company first ensures that it has adequate policy reserves to cover payouts. Once the value of the policy reserves has been determined, the insurer can calculate the valuation premium to cover its liabilities.Higher valuation premiums correspond with higher risks and values of covered assets or items.


   Understanding a Valuation Premium  

Life insurance is a contract between an insurer and a policyholder in which the insurance company guarantees payment of a death benefit to named beneficiaries upon the death of the insured. The insurance company promises a death benefit in consideration of the payment of premiums by the insured.



The amount of insurance premiums charged by the insurance companies is determined by statistics and mathematical calculations done by the underwriting department of the insurance company. The underwriting process involves investigating familial diseases and analyzing records like medical information and motor vehicle reports. Statisticians hired by the insurance company, known as actuaries, analyze the data and attempt to predict how likely the insurance applicant will be to file a claim on their policy. The higher the probability of a claim, the higher the premiums usually are for the policyholders.



The life insurance company's valuation premium is the total amount of premiums paid by policyholders set aside for mandated reserves. Regulated insurers are required to offset their assets to cover liabilities. Once the insurer determines the value of its policy reserves, the company can calculate the valuation premium that will cover its liabilities. In this manner, the insurance company can make sure that it will have the assets necessary to cover all its policies.


   Benefits of a Valuation Premium  

Valuation premiums help ensure an insurance company stays financially solvent and has the necessary means to pay any claims that may arise from its policies. Higher valuation premiums tend to correspond with higher risks and values of covered assets or items.



At times, an insurance company may opt to set a premium lower than the calculated valuation premium if its experience and statistical records indicate that a lower premium is justified. If a lower premium is charged, the insurance company would be obligated to hold the difference in a deficiency reserve.
What Is a Valuation Reserve?  

Valuation reserves are assets that insurance companies set aside per state law to mitigate the risk of declines in the value of investments they hold. They function as a hedge to an investment portfolio and ensure that an insurance company remains solvent.



Because policies such as life insurance, health insurance, and various annuities may be in effect for extended periods of time, valuation reserves protect the insurance company from losses from investments that may not perform as expected. This helps ensure that the policyholders are paid for claims and that annuity holders receive income even if an insurance company’s assets lose value.





Key Takeaways

A valuation reserve is money set aside by an insurance company to hedge against a decrease in the value of its assets.Valuation reserves are mandatory under state law to protect against the natural fluctuations in the value of investments.Valuation reserves are calculated using an asset valuation reserve and an interest maintenance reserve to separate valuations in equity versus interest gains and losses.Regulators are increasingly looking at risk-based capital requirements, such as valuation reserves, as a more prudent way to ensure solvency.To make sure that an insurance company remains solvent so that it can pay insurance claims and annuities, it must maintain a certain amount of valuation reserves.


   Understanding a Valuation Reserve  

Insurance companies receive premiums for the services they provide. In return, when a client files an insurance claim that needs to be paid out, an insurance company must ensure that it has money on hand to honor this request.



The same applies to any annuities that an insurance company issues. It must ensure that it can meet the regular payments of an annuity. For these reasons it is critical for an insurance company to monitor its reserves and investments so that it remains solvent. Valuation reserves help insurance companies do this.



Valuation reserves make sure that an insurance company holds enough assets to cover any risks that arise from the contracts it has underwritten. Regulators are focused on using risk-based capital requirements to measure the solvency levels of insurance companies, which is a view of a company's assets versus its obligations separately rather than its assets versus its liabilities together.


   History of Valuation Reserves  

Valuation reserve requirements have changed over the years. Before 1992, a mandatory securities valuation reserve was required by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners to protect against a decline in the value of the securities an insurance company holds.﻿﻿



After 1992, however, the mandatory securities valuation reserve requirements were changed to include an asset valuation reserve and an interest maintenance reserve. This reflected the nature of the insurance business, with companies holding different categories of assets and customers purchasing more annuity-related products.﻿﻿


   Changing Valuation Reserve Requirements  

Life insurance companies have the obligation to pay beneficiaries that purchase insurance and annuities. These companies need to hold an appropriate level of assets in reserve to make sure they can meet these obligations over the many years that the policies may be in effect.



Various state laws and standards require that this level be calculated on an actuarial basis. This approach accounts for expected claims among policyholders, plus forecasts on future premiums that the company will receive and how much interest a company can expect to earn.



Yet the market for insurance and annuity products had been shifting in the 1980s. The American Council of Life Insurers reported that in 1980, life insurance represented 51% of reserves held by companies while reserves held for individual annuities accounted for only 8%. Then, by 1990, reserves for life insurance fell to 29% of all reserves while the percentage held for individual annuities climbed up to 23%.﻿﻿ This reflected the growth in the popularity of retirement plans that were administered by insurance companies.



A changing interest rate climate can create risk that impacts reserves needed for ongoing annuity payments more than for life insurance benefits that are paid in one lump sum. By recommending changing regulations to separate asset valuation reserves from interest maintenance reserves, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners recognized the need to protect against fluctuations in the value of equity and credit-related capital gains and losses differently than interest-related gains and losses.
What Is Value?  

Value is the monetary, material, or assessed worth of an asset, good, or service. "Value" is attached to a myriad of concepts including shareholder value, the value of a firm, fair value, and market value. Some of the terms are well-known business jargon, and some are formal terms for accounting and auditing standards of reporting to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).





Key Takeaways

Value is the monetary, material, or assessed worth of an asset, good, or service."Value" is attached to a myriad of concepts including shareholder value, the value of a firm, fair value, and market value.The process of calculating and assigning a value to a company or an asset is called valuation.Comparing the different values and valuations of a company to other companies can help with determining investment opportunities.Common types of value include market value, book value, enterprise value, and value stock.


   Understanding Value  

Value can mean a quantity or number, but in finance, it's often used to determine the worth of an asset, a company, and its financial performance. Investors, stock analysts, and company executives estimate and forecast the value of a company based on numerous financial metrics. Companies can be valued based on how much profit they generate on a per-share basis, meaning the profit divided by how many equity shares are outstanding.



The process of calculating and assigning a value to a company or an asset is a process called valuation. However, the term valuation is also used to assign a fair value for a company's stock price. Equity analysts that work for investment banks often calculate a valuation for a company to determine whether it's fairly valued, undervalued, or overvalued based on the financial performance as it relates to the current stock price.



Comparing the different values and valuations of a company to other companies within the same industry can help with determining investment opportunities. For example, if the value of a firm is estimated at $50 per share, but the stock is trading at $35 per share in the market, an investor might consider buying the stock. On the other hand, if the stock is trading at $85 per share, far above the perceived value, the investor could consider selling or shorting the stock.



Below are some common uses for the term value in finance and in the stock market.


  Market Value  

A company's market value represents the value according to market participants in the stock market. In stock valuation, market value is typically synonymous with the term market capitalization. Market cap is merely the share price of a company multiplied by the total number of outstanding shares.


  Book Value  

Book value is the value of a company according to its financial statements or accounting "books." Book value represents the total amount of money remaining if the company liquidated or sold all of its assets and paid off all of its financial obligations, such as debts or liabilities.


  Value Stock  

A value stock is a company's stock that trades at a lower price when considering its financial performance and fundamentals, which could include earnings or profit performance, dividends, which are cash payments to shareholders, and revenue generated from sales. Typically, investors searching for well-run companies that trade at a discount are called value investors.


  Enterprise Value  

Enterprise value is the total value of a company, which includes a company's cash on its balance sheet, short-term and long-term debt as the market capitalization of the company. The enterprise value of a company shows how well the management team uses its capital, which is financed by debt and issuing equity shares.






In calculating the valuation of a company and its stock price, investors often analyze financial data, but the interpretation of that data can vary greatly between investors, making valuation analysis both an art and a science.


  Other Uses of Value  

There are many other uses for the term value that go beyond the stock market. Real estate and homes have a value associated with them. Within a situation, something or someone could add value or be value-added. Value-added describes the enhancement to a product or service by a company, such as an extra feature or benefit.



The goal is to increase the value of the product or service being offered. The term value proposition is used in the corporate world to represent a company's promise to its customers that they'll deliver the product or service as a result of doing business with them.



Net asset value (NAV) represents the net value of a company or investment, which is calculated by subtracting the total amount of assets by the total amount of liabilities. Net asset value is typically used with investment funds containing a basket of securities, such as mutual funds.


   Valuation of a Company  

The term value can also be applied to the value of a company versus the valuation of a company. Although value and valuation are often used interchangeably, the value of a firm is a number, while valuation is expressed as a multiple to earnings, earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), or cash flow. Earnings represent the profit or net income generated by a company. Cash flow represents the inflows (credits) or outflows (debits) to the cash position of a company during an accounting period.


  Discounted Cash Flows  

There are various methods that investors use to value a company, depending on what they believe is more important. Some investors use the cash a company generates by applying discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis. The DCF method attempts to forecast or estimate the future cash flows of a company. If a company can generate cash, it can meet its debt obligations, invest in the company, or pay dividends. In other words, DCF analysis attempts to determine an investment's value today, based on projections of the cash generated in the future. 


  Earnings per Share Valuations  

When investors calculate the valuation of a company and its stock price, they're essentially comparing how much earnings are generated as a result of another financial metric within the company.



For example, one might want to know how much earnings are generated as a result of outstanding shares of stock, which is called earnings per share (EPS). Remember, stock and debt issuance are used by companies to raise funds to invest in the business. Investors want to know how effectively the management team is using those funds to generate earnings.






The price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio is the most common way to calculate the value of a stock. It is equal to the company's share price divided by its earnings per share (EPS).



"What's the valuation of the firm?" is not the same question as "What is the value of the firm?" The market valuation would be a multiple of the current trading price to earnings per share (EPS), such as the stock price to book value per share, or another price multiple.



Using price multiples allows for valuation comparisons across peer groups. An investor cannot make sense that the value of firm A is $4 billion and firm B is $9 billion. To make a more informed investment decision, the investor is better off knowing that the valuation of firm A is 15x EPS, and firm B is 18x EPS.




What Does Value Mean in Real Estate?
Value in real estate refers to the worth of a property, whether that be a home or land as determined by the amount that the seller and buyer agree upon. Value in real estate is only determined when the buyer and seller agree upon a price. The price may be affected by variables such as property taxes, the community, the current economic conditions, and the appraisal.




What Is Absolute Value?
Absolute value refers to the value of a number without regard to whether it is positive or negative. It is simply the distance from zero that a number sits. For example, both +5 and -5 have an absolute value of 5.




What Is a Value Stock?
A value stock is one whose share price is trading below what a fundamental analysis would otherwise indicate. If an analysis of a company's fundamentals, such as its earnings, dividends, cash flow, operating income, and so on, indicates that its stock should be trading at a specific price, and the share price is below that number, it is considered a value stock. If an investor purchased the stock at this lower price, they would be getting a good value as the stock will most likely at some point correct and increase in price.
What Is a Value-Added Product?  

A value-added product is a saleable commodity that has been enhanced with additional qualities that make it worth a higher price than the raw materials used to make it. It may be made more convenient, more attractive, more palatable, or easier to use than its raw ingredients.



Adding value explains why businesses are able to sell their goods or services for more than they cost to produce.



In marketing, the added value is a succinct message to the consumer about the characteristics that make a product worth more than its raw ingredients and, just as importantly, why it is preferable to similar products from competitors.





Key Takeaways

Value-added is the additional features or economic value that a company adds to its products and services before offering them to customers.Adding value to a product or service helps companies attract more customers, which can boost revenue and profits.Value-added is effectively the difference between a product's price to consumers and the cost of producing it.Value can be added in several different ways, such as adding a brand name to a generic product or assembling a product in an innovative way.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Value-Added  

Value-added is the difference between the price of a product or service and the cost of producing it. The price is determined by what customers are willing to pay based on their perceived value. Value is added or created in different ways.



These may include, for instance, extra or special features added by a company or producer to increase the value of a product or service. The addition of value can thus increase the product's price that consumers are willing to pay. For example, offering a year of free tech support on a new computer would be a value-added feature. Individuals can also add value to services they perform, such as bringing advanced skills into the workforce.



Consumers now have access to a whole range of products and services when they want them. As a result, companies constantly struggle to find competitive advantages over each other. Discovering what customers truly value is crucial for what the company produces, packages, markets, and how it delivers its products.



Bose Corporation, as an example, has successfully shifted its focus from producing speakers to delivering a "sound experience," or when a BMW car rolls off the assembly line, it sells for a much higher premium over the cost of production because of its reputation for stellar performance, German engineering, and quality parts. Here, the additional advantage has been created through each brand's symbolic value and years of refinement.


   Value-Added in the Economy  

The contribution of private industry or a government sector to overall gross domestic product (GDP) is the value-added of an industry, also referred to as GDP-by-industry. If all stages of production occurred within a country's borders, the total value added at all stages is what is counted in GDP.



The total value added is the market price of the final product or service and only counts production within a specified time period. This is the basis on which value-added tax (VAT) is computed, a system of taxation that's prevalent in Europe.



Economists can in this way determine how much value an industry contributes to a nation's GDP. Value-added in an industry refers to the difference between the total revenue of an industry and the total cost of inputs—the sum of labor, materials, and services—purchased from other businesses within a reporting period.



The total revenue or output of the industry consists of sales and other operating income, commodity taxes, and inventory change. Inputs that could be purchased from other firms to produce a final product include raw materials, semi-finished goods, energy, and services.






Economic value-added—also referred to as economic profit or EVA—is the value a business generates from its invested capital.


   Value-Added in Marketing  

Companies that build strong brands increase value just by adding their logo to a product. Nike can sell shoes at a much higher price than some of its competitors, even though their production costs may be similar. That's because the Nike brand and its logo, which appears on the uniforms of the top college and professional sports teams, represents a quality enjoyed by elite athletes.



Similarly, luxury car buyers considering a BMW or Mercedes-Benz are willing to pay a premium price for their vehicles because of the brand reputation and ongoing maintenance programs the companies offer.



Amazon has been a force in the e-retail sector with its automatic refunds for poor service, free shipping, and price guarantees on pre-ordered items. Consumers have become so accustomed to its service that they are willing to pay for Amazon Prime memberships because they value the free two-day turnaround on orders.
What Is a Value Added Monthly Index (VAMI)?  

A value added monthly index (VAMI) tracks the monthly performance of a hypothetical $1,000 investment, assuming reinvestment, over a period of time.





Key Takeaways

A value added monthly index (VAMI) shows what the monthly returns would have been over time on a proposed $1,000 investment.VAMI is one of the most commonly used metrics to depict a fund's overall performance to investors.VAMI is calculated using net monthly returns starting with a $1,000 at time zero.


   Understanding a Value Added Monthly Index (VAMI)  

A value added monthly index charts the total return gained by an investor over a specified period of time. It includes capital gains as well as reinvestment of any disbursements, such as dividends and additional interest earned through compounding. Another key aspect of VAMI is that it is calculated using NET monthly returns. This means that any applicable fees, such as management, incentive, brokerage fees, have already been deducted, and what's left is the real return.



This is one of the most commonly used metrics to depict a fund's overall performance to investors. VAMI's popularity stems from the fact that it is quite descriptive, in that it shows an investor how $1,000 has performed over a given period, and that it is easy to understand.



A value added monthly index can be used for a variety of purposes. It may provide insight into the growth of invested capital over time. Sometimes, it can be used to evaluate the performance of a fund manager. It is also helpful in comparing multiple funds and index benchmarks. VAMI is calculated by multiplying the previous month's VAMI by the current month's NET return.



VAMI first point = 1,000 * (1 + current month's NET return)Subsequent VAMI = Previous VAMI x (1 + current month's NET return)


   Using VAMI for Comparison  

VAMI charts can be a reliable way to compare the growth of various funds and benchmarks across the market. Investors can customize these charts to choose from the options in a fund company’s family of funds. VAMI charts provide investors with a perspective on how an investment has performed over time. They may also provide insight on potential expectations with future projections.



VAMI charts can also provide a visual representation of how similar funds, or funds from different asset class categories, have performed over a specified time frame, with benchmark returns also included for broader analysis.


   VAMI Tools  

Numerous market platforms provide VAMI tools for investor analysis. These tools can allow for varying inputs such as higher initial capital values and varying durations.



A value added monthly index can be constructed using technical software programming. It typically begins with a hypothetical investment of $1,000. However, initial investment levels can vary. When using this modeling technique it is important to ensure the availability and quality of data to provide relevant charting, as estimated outcomes can be skewed by data quality. VAMI charts can be built in Microsoft Excel or other technical software programs. Online versions are often provided by financial services companies to help provide a graphical representation of investment values over time.



Morningstar provides an example with its VAMI tool, which is part of its research offering for mutual funds. Under the chart tab, investors are provided with the hypothetical growth of an initial $10,000 investment. When researching the Vanguard 500 Index Fund for the one-year period from Jan. 26, 2017, to Jan. 26, 2018, the VAMI chart shows that an investor’s $10,000 investment would have increased to more than $12,500.
What Is a Value-Added Network (VAN)?  

A value-added network (VAN) is a private, hosted service that provides companies with a secure way to send and share data with its counterparties. Value-added networks were a common way to facilitate electronic data interchange (EDI) between companies. As the internet created competition for this service with the advent of secure email, VANs responded by expanding their service offerings to include things like message encryption, secure email, and management reporting.



A value-added network simplifies the communications process by reducing the number of parties with which a company needs to communicate. The VAN accomplishes this by acting as an intermediary between business partners that share standards-based or proprietary data. VANs are set up with audit capabilities so that the data being exchanged is formatted correctly and validated before it is transferred to the next party. VANs are sometimes referred to as added-value networks or turnkey communications lines.





Key Takeaways

Value-added networks are often used for electronic data interchanging between companies.VANs make the communications process easier with communication between fewer parties.VANs are important for managing supply chains.


   How a Value-Added Network (VAN) Works  

Value-added networks are generally used by large companies for efficient supply chain management with their suppliers, or by industry consortiums or telecommunications companies. VANs usually operate in a mailbox setting, wherein a company sends a transaction to a VAN, and the VAN places it in the receiver's mailbox. The receiver contacts the VAN and picks up the transaction, and then sends a transaction of its own.



The system is similar to email, except that it is used for standardized structured data rather than unstructured text.


   VANs in the Internet Era  

The ubiquity of the Internet has lessened the attraction of VANs, largely due to cost considerations. Simply put, it is often more cost-effective to move data over the Internet than to pay the minimum monthly fees and per-character charges included in typical VAN contracts. VANs have countered the challenge from the internet by focusing on specific industry verticals such as healthcare, retail, and manufacturing. These industries have unique data integrity and security concerns that make VANs a true value-added solution.






VANs simplify the communications process by allowing the company to communicate with fewer parties.



The data being exchanged through the VAN can be formatted to go directly into the software application of the receiving organization, an enterprise resource planning (ERP) suite, for example. This direct exchange between two companies increases the speed of commerce while also reducing the chances of human errors that occur with manual data entry.



VANs can also provide visibility tools that show the delivery status of data and some corresponding workflows, allowing companies to better coordinate dependent activities through the system rather than exchanging phone calls and emails. Not only is using a VAN more efficient and more accurate, but it also saves the cost of hiring human data-entry professionals for the exchange of information.



Like many pre-Internet technologies, VANs have had to reinvent themselves to remain relevant going forward. Today, VANs offer services that go above and beyond mailboxes for EDI exchange and retrieval, authentication of messages, and archival of past transactions. Modern VANs create value for businesses by offering automatic backups of EDI data, flexible access to that data via secure web portals, and unlimited data pricing packages.
What Is a Value-Added Reseller (VAR)?  

A value-added reseller is a firm that enhances the value of third-party products by adding customized products or services for resale to end-users. Value-added resellers play a prominent role in the information technology (IT) industry, providing additional hardware, installation services, consulting, troubleshooting, or other related products or services on top of core products.






Value-added resellers play an important and prominent role in the information technology (IT) industry.


   Understanding Value-Added Reseller  

Value-added resellers exist because they represent an important distribution channel for manufacturers, particularly those in the IT sector. A value-added reseller takes a core hardware or software product or an entire system and customizes a package of additional system add-ons for a customer. The reseller is not the manufacturer of the equipment, but it is expected to have a thorough knowledge of the product to properly customize, install, test, and maintain for the customer.



Recognizing the benefit of value-added resellers, an IT corporation will typically offer product discounts to them as a means to increase sales through this channel. Some of these resellers can be exclusive to one company, but most carry a few or several brands to offer more choices to customers.





Key Takeaways

A value-added reseller enhances the value of other companies' products by adding customized products or services to the core product for resale to end-users.A value-added reseller can increase repeat business through the added value they provide.Value-added resellers can’t really control the costs of the product they're selling.


   Example of Value-Added Reseller  

Like other large IT product manufacturers, Cisco cultivates a reseller program that encompasses authorization, certification, training, and auditing of the members to ensure quality control. A reseller must first be authorized to carry Cisco products, demonstrating that it has the personnel and infrastructure to support the sales of the products.



Depending on the level of service, it may receive a "select," "premier," or "gold" certification from Cisco. Cisco further provides training for resellers to specialize in a number of areas such as enterprise networks, cybersecurity, Internet of Things (IoT), and data centers. Periodically, value-added resellers must submit to audits by Cisco to prove their ongoing worthiness as members of the reseller network.


   Advantages of Value-Added Resellers  

A value-added reseller can increase its potential for repeat business by virtue of the added value they provide. A VAR can also act as the single point of customer service-centric contact for customers of certain products and solutions. A VAR is often better positioned to understand the customers’ challenges and offer the kind of expertise that ensures customer satisfaction.



The majority of a VAR margin comes from the value-added products and services, not the products themselves, which usually are marked up only a small amount. There is no such thing as a standardized VAR program. Every company has a unique business climate and terms, conditions, and methods.


   Disadvantages of Value-Added Resellers  

Value-added resellers can’t really control the cost of the product they're selling, and the whole reselling process is sometimes not transparent. Sometimes, manufacturers will try to alleviate this problem by offering a discount to resellers, which allows a reseller greater control over the prices they charge their customers.



A reseller also has little to no control over the quality or features of their product, and they must rely on their manufacturer to adjust to changing customer requirements.
What Is Value-Added Tax (VAT)?  

Value-added tax (VAT) is a consumption tax on goods and services that is levied at each stage of the supply chain where value is added, from initial production to the point of sale. The amount of VAT the user pays is based on the cost of the product minus any costs of materials in the product that have already been taxed at a previous stage.





Key Takeaways

Value-added tax, or VAT, is added to a product at every point of the supply chain where value is added to it.Advocates of VATs claim that they raise government revenues without punishing the wealthy by charging them more through an income tax. Critics say that VATs place an undue economic burden on lower-income taxpayers.Although many industrialized countries have VAT, the United States is not one of them.


   Understanding Value-Added Tax (VAT)  

VAT is based on consumption rather than income. In contrast to a progressive income tax, which levies more taxes on the wealthy, VAT is charged equally on every purchase. More than 160 countries use a VAT system. It is most commonly found in the European Union (EU). Nevertheless, it is not without controversy.



Advocates say VAT raises government revenues without charging wealthy taxpayers more, as income taxes do. It also is considered simpler and more standardized than a traditional sales tax, with fewer compliance issues.



Critics argue that VAT is essentially a regressive tax that places an undue economic burden on lower-income consumers while increasing the bureaucratic burden on businesses. Both critics and proponents of VAT generally argue it being an alternative to income tax. That is not necessarily the case because many countries have both an income tax and a VAT.


   How a Value-Added Tax Works  

VAT is levied on the gross margin at each point in the process of manufacturing, distributing, and selling an item. The tax is assessed and collected at each stage. That is different from a sales tax system, in which the tax is assessed and paid only by the consumer at the very end of the supply chain.



Say, for example, a candy called Dulce is manufactured and sold in the imaginary country of Alexia. Alexia has a 10% VAT. 



Here is how the VAT would work:



Dulce’s manufacturer buys the raw materials for $2, plus a VAT of 20 cents—payable to the government of Alexia—for a total price of $2.20.The manufacturer then sells Dulce to a retailer for $5 plus a VAT of 50 cents, for a total of $5.50. The manufacturer renders only 30 cents to Alexia, which is the total VAT at this point, minus the prior VAT charged by the raw material supplier. Note that the 30 cents also equal 10% of the manufacturer’s gross margin of $3. Finally, a retailer sells Dulce to consumers for $10 plus a VAT of $1, for a total of $11. The retailer renders 50 cents to Alexia, which is the total VAT at this point ($1), minus the prior 50-cent VAT charged by the manufacturer. The 50 cents also represent 10% of the retailer’s gross margin on Dulce.


   History of the Value-Added Tax  

VAT was largely a European creation. It was introduced by French tax authority Maurice Lauré in 1954, although the idea of taxing each stage of the production process was said to have first been floated a century earlier in Germany.



The vast majority of industrialized countries that make up the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) have a VAT system. The United States remains a notable exception.



According to one International Monetary Fund (IMF) study, any nation that switches to VAT initially feels the negative impact of reduced tax revenues. In the long run, however, the study concluded that VAT adoption has in the majority of cases increased government revenue and proved effective.



VAT has earned a negative connotation in some parts of the world, even hurting its proponents politically. In the Philippines, for example, Sen. Ralph Recto, a chief proponent of VAT in the early 2000s, was voted out of office by the electorate when he ran for reelection. However, in the years that followed its implementation, the population eventually accepted the tax. Recto ended up finding his way back to the Senate, where he became the proponent of an expanded VAT.






VAT is often broken down into a standard rate and a reduced rate, with the latter usually applying to goods and services deemed necessities.


   VAT vs. Sales Tax  

The main difference between a VAT and a sales tax is that a sales tax is only paid once: at the initial point of sale. This means only the retail customer pays the sales tax.



The VAT is instead collected multiple times during the production of a finished product. Each time value is added or a sale is made, the VAT tax is collected and remitted to the government.



VATs and sales taxes can raise roughly the same amount of revenue. The differences lie in the point at which the money is paid and by whom.



Here is an example that assumes (again) a VAT of 10%:



A farmer sells wheat to a baker for 30 cents. The baker pays 33 cents; the extra 3 cents represent the VAT, which the farmer sends to the government.The baker uses the wheat to make bread and sells a loaf to a local supermarket for 70 cents. The supermarket pays 77 cents, including a 7-cent VAT. The baker sends 4 cents to the government; the other 3 cents were paid by the farmer.Finally, the supermarket sells the loaf of bread to a customer for $1. Of the $1.10 paid by the customer, or the base price plus the VAT, the supermarket sends 3 cents to the government.



Just as it would with a traditional 10% sales tax, the government receives 10 cents on a $1 sale. The VAT differs in that it is paid at different stops along the supply chain; the farmer pays 3 cents, the baker pays 4 cents, and the supermarket pays 3 cents.



However, a VAT offers advantages over a national sales tax. It is much easier to track. The exact tax levied at each step of production is known.



With a sales tax, the entire amount is rendered after the sale, making it difficult to allocate to specific production stages. Additionally, because the VAT only taxes each value addition—not the sale of a product itself—assurance is provided that the same product is not double taxed.


   Special Considerations: VAT and the U.S.A.  

There has been much debate in the United States about replacing the current income tax system with a federal VAT. Advocates claim it would increase government revenue, help fund essential social services, and reduce the federal deficit. Most recently, a VAT was advocated by 2020 presidential candidate Andrew Yang.



In 1992, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) conducted an economic study on implementing a VAT. At the time, the CBO concluded that a VAT would add only $150 billion in annual revenue, or less than 3% of national output. If you adjust those numbers to 2022 dollars, it comes out to roughly $297 billion.



Using these approximations, it can be estimated that a VAT might raise between $250 billion and $500 billion in government revenue. Of course, these figures don’t account for all of the outside impacts of a VAT system. A VAT would change the structure of production in the United States because not all firms would be equally able to absorb the increased input costs.



It is also unknown if the additional revenue would serve as an excuse to borrow more money or reduce taxes in other areas (potentially making the VAT budget neutral).



The Baker Institute for Public Policy at Rice University, in conjunction with Ernst & Young, conducted a macroeconomic analysis of the VAT in 2010. The principal findings were that VAT would reduce retail spending by $2.5 trillion over 10 years, the economy could lose up to 850,000 jobs in the first year alone, and the VAT would have “significant redistributional effects” that would harm current workers.



Three years later, in a 2013 Brookings Institution report, William Gale and Benjamin Harris proposed a VAT to help solve the country’s fiscal problems coming out of the Great Recession. They calculated that a 5% VAT could reduce the deficit by $1.6 trillion over 10 years and raise revenues without distorting savings and investment choices.


   Pros and Cons of VAT  

In addition to the fiscal arguments, proponents of a VAT in the United States suggest that replacing the current income tax system with a federal VAT would have other positive effects.





Pros

Substituting a VAT for other taxes such as the income tax would close tax loopholes.
A VAT provides a stronger incentive to earn more money than a progressive income tax does.



Cons

A VAT creates higher costs for businesses.
It can encourage tax evasion.
Passed-along costs lead to higher prices—a particular burden on low-income consumers.





  Pro: Closing Tax Loopholes  

Proponents argue that a VAT would not only greatly simplify the complex federal tax code and increase the efficiency of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) but also make it much more difficult to avoid paying taxes.



A VAT would collect revenue on all goods sold in the United States, including online purchases.


  Pro: A Stronger Incentive to Earn  

If a VAT supplants U.S. income tax, it eliminates the disincentive-to-succeed complaint levied against progressive tax systems: Citizens get to keep more of the money that they make and are only taxed when purchasing goods.



This change not only confers a stronger incentive to earn; it also encourages saving and discourages frivolous spending (at least theoretically).


  Con: Higher Costs for Businesses  

The potential drawbacks of a VAT include increased costs for business owners throughout the chain of production. Because VAT is calculated at every step of the sales process, bookkeeping alone results in a bigger burden for a company, which then passes on the additional cost to the consumer.



It becomes more complex when transactions are not only local but also international. Different countries may have different interpretations of how to calculate the tax. This not only adds another layer to the bureaucracy but can also result in unnecessary transaction delays.


  Con: Encouraging Tax Evasion  

Though a VAT system may be simpler to maintain, it is costlier to implement. Tax evasion can continue and even become widespread if the general public does not give it wholehearted support.



Smaller businesses in particular can evade paying VAT by asking their customers if they require a receipt, adding that the price of the product or service purchased is lower if no official receipt is issued.


  Con: Conflicts Between State and Local Governments  

In the United States, a federal VAT could also create conflicts with state and local governments across the country, which currently set their own sales taxes.


  Con: Higher Prices  

Critics note that consumers typically wind up paying higher prices with a VAT. Though the VAT theoretically spreads the tax burden on the added value of a good as it moves through the supply chain from raw material to final product, in practice, the increased costs are typically passed along to the consumer.


   VAT Refund  

If you are a non-resident visitor to another country and paid VAT tax there, you may be eligible for a VAT refund on certain items. Often, certain purchases like food, hotels, and tourist attractions are ineligible; however, purchases of clothing, jewelry, crafts, and so on may be eligible for a refund. This allows for some tax-free shopping. You will need to keep your receipts or other proof of purchase (sometimes there will be a special VAT receipt) and fill out paperwork at the airport or other port of departure before you leave. Note that this service generally carries a service charge, so you won't get all of your VAT taxes spent back on qualified purchases.



The VAT refund will typically be mailed to you in your domestic currency; but in some larger ports and airports, you may be able to obtain a refund straight away once the customs officer has stamped your forms.






To avoid administrative burdens over small-value items, countries may impose a minimum value to get a refund. For instance, the EU requires at least EUR 175 (or the equivalent in national currency outside the eurozone) for the total purchase, but individual EU countries may set lower thresholds. 




What Does Value-Added Tax (VAT) Do?
Value-added tax (VAT) is a flat tax levied on an item. It is similar to a sales tax in some respects, except that with a sales tax, the full amount owed to the government is paid by the consumer at the point of sale. With a VAT, portions of the tax amount are paid by different parties to a transaction.




Does the United States Have a Value-Added Tax (VAT)?
No, the United States has no VAT. The federal government raises money primarily through the income tax system. The states and local governments establish and collect their own sales taxes. Local governments rely primarily on property taxes.




Who Benefits From a VAT and Who Doesn’t?
Wealthier consumers could ultimately come out ahead if a VAT replaced the income tax. As with other flat taxes, a VAT’s impact would be felt less by the wealthy and more by the poor, who spend most of their income on necessities.In short, lower-income consumers would pay a much higher proportion of their earnings in taxes with a VAT system, according to critics such as the Tax Policy Center.




Can the Negative Effects of a VAT on Lower-Income People Be Fixed?
Yes, to some extent. A government can exclude certain basic household goods, food products, or medicines from the VAT, or it can charge a substantially lower VAT rate. It can also provide rebates or credits to low-income citizens to offset the effects of the tax.




Does the U.S. Impose a VAT?
The only major economy without VAT is the United States. This is because each state in the U.S. has its own sales tax regime (with some cities or counties additionally levying a sales tax), rather than a federal sales tax. A VAT system in the U.S. would require agreement and close coordination among all 50 states in order to bring it about, which is unlikely to happen.


   The Bottom Line  

A value-added tax, or VAT, is a common form of consumption tax that is due at every stage of a product's production from the sale of the raw materials to its final purchase by a consumer. More than 170 countries worldwide, including all of the countries in the European Union, levy a VAT on goods and services. This system differs from a sales tax (which is found in the United States), in that a sales tax is only paid once, by consumers, at the point of sale.
What Is Value at Risk (VaR)?  

Value at risk (VaR) is a statistic that quantifies the extent of possible financial losses within a firm, portfolio, or position over a specific time frame. This metric is most commonly used by investment and commercial banks to determine the extent and probabilities of potential losses in their institutional portfolios.



Risk managers use VaR to measure and control the level of risk exposure. One can apply VaR calculations to specific positions or whole portfolios or use them to measure firm-wide risk exposure.





Key Takeaways

Value at risk (VaR) is a way to quantify the risk of potential losses for a firm or an investment.This metric can be computed in three ways: the historical, variance-covariance, and Monte Carlo methods.Investment banks commonly apply VaR modeling to firm-wide risk due to the potential for independent trading desks to unintentionally expose the firm to highly correlated assets.












Lara Antal / Investopedia


   Understanding Value at Risk (VaR)  

VaR modeling determines the potential for loss in the entity being assessed and the probability that the defined loss will occur. One measures VaR by assessing the amount of potential loss, the probability of occurrence for the amount of loss, and the time frame.



For example, a financial firm may determine an asset has a 3% one-month VaR of 2%, representing a 3% chance of the asset declining in value by 2% during the one-month time frame. The conversion of the 3% chance of occurrence to a daily ratio places the odds of a 2% loss at one day per month.



Using a firm-wide VaR assessment allows for the determination of the cumulative risks from aggregated positions held by different trading desks and departments within the institution. Using the data provided by VaR modeling, financial institutions can determine whether they have sufficient capital reserves in place to cover losses or whether higher-than-acceptable risks require them to reduce concentrated holdings.


   VaR Methodologies  

There are three main ways of computing VaR: the historical method, the variance-covariance method, and the Monte Carlo method.


  Historical Method  

The historical method looks at one’s prior returns history and orders them from worst losses to greatest gains—following from the premise that past returns experience will inform future outcomes. See “Value at Risk (VaR) Example” below for the formula and how it’s calculated.


  Variance-Covariance Method  

Rather than assuming that the past will inform the future, the variance-covariance method, also called the parametric method, instead assumes that gains and losses are normally distributed. This way, potential losses can be framed in terms of standard deviation events from the mean.



The variance-covariance method works best for risk measurement in which the distributions are known and reliably estimated. It is less reliable if the sample size is very small.


  Monte Carlo Method  

A third approach to VaR is to conduct a Monte Carlo simulation. This technique uses computational models to simulate projected returns over hundreds or thousands of possible iterations. Then, it takes the chances that a loss will occur—say, 5% of the time—and reveals the impact.



The Monte Carlo method can be used with a wide range of risk measurement problems and relies upon the assumption that the probability distribution for risk factors is known.















VaR.
Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020


   Advantages of Value at Risk (VaR)  

There are several advantages to using VaR in risk measurement:



It is a single number, expressed as a percentage or in price units, and is easily interpreted and widely used by financial industry professionals.
VaR computations can be compared across different types of assets—shares, bonds, derivatives, currencies, and more—or portfolios.
Thanks to its popularity, VaR is often included and calculated for you in various financial software tools, such as a Bloomberg terminal.


   Disadvantages of Value at Risk (VaR)  

One problem is that there is no standard protocol for the statistics used to determine asset, portfolio, or firm-wide risk. Statistics pulled arbitrarily from a period of low volatility, for example, may understate the potential for risk events to occur and the magnitude of those events. Risk may be further understated using normal distribution probabilities, which rarely account for extreme or black swan events.



Another disadvantage is that the assessment of potential loss represents the lowest amount of risk in a range of outcomes. For example, a VaR determination of 95% with 20% asset risk represents an expectation of losing at least 20% one of every 20 days on average. In this calculation, a loss of 50% still validates the risk assessment.



The financial crisis of 2008 that exposed these problems as relatively benign VaR calculations understated the potential occurrence of risk events posed by portfolios of subprime mortgages. Risk magnitude was also underestimated, which resulted in extreme leverage ratios within subprime portfolios. As a result, the underestimations of occurrence and risk magnitude left institutions unable to cover billions of dollars in losses as subprime mortgage values collapsed.  


   Value at Risk (VaR) Example  

The formula sounds easy, as it only has a few inputs. However, manually calculating the VaR for a large portfolio is computationally laborious.



Though there are several different methods of calculating VaR, the historical method is the simplest:



Value at Risk = vm (vi / v(i - 1))



M is the number of days from which historical data is taken, and vi is the number of variables on day i. The purpose of the formula is to calculate the percent change of each risk factor for the past 252 trading days (the total number in a year). Each percent change is then applied to current market values to determine 252 scenarios for the security’s future value.




What is the value at risk (VaR) formula?
You can use several different methods, with different formulas, to calculate VaR, but the simplest method to manually calculate VaR is the historical method. In this case, m is the number of days from which historical data is taken and vi is the number of variables on day i.Value at risk formula (using the historical method):vm (vi / v(i - 1))




What is the difference between value at risk (VaR) and standard deviation?
Value at risk (VaR) is a measure of the potential loss that an asset, portfolio, or firm might experience over a given period of time. Standard deviation, on the other hand, measures how much returns vary over time. It is a measure of volatility in the market: The smaller the standard deviation, the lower an investment’s risk, and the larger the standard deviation, the more volatile it is.




What is marginal value at risk (VaR)?
Marginal VaR is a calculation of the additional risk that a new investment position will add to a portfolio or a firm. It is simply an estimate of the change in the total amount of risk, not the precise amount of risk that a position is adding to or subtracting from the whole portfolio. That more precise measurement is known as incremental VaR.


   The Bottom Line  

Value at risk (VaR) is a well-known, commonly used risk assessment technique. The VaR calculation is a probability-based estimate of the minimum loss in dollar terms expected over a period. The data produced is used by investors to strategically make investment decisions.



VaR is often criticized for offering a false sense of security, as VaR does not report the maximum potential loss. One of its limitations is that the statistically most likely outcome isn’t always the actual outcome.
What Is Value Averaging?  

Value averaging (VA) is an investing strategy that works like dollar-cost averaging (DCA) in terms of making steady monthly contributions but differs in its approach to the amount of each monthly contribution. In value averaging, the investor sets a target growth rate or an amount of their asset base or portfolio each month and then adjusts the next month's contribution according to the relative gain or shortfall made on the original asset base.



Therefore, instead of investing a set amount each period, a VA strategy makes investments based on the total size of the portfolio at each interval.





Key Takeaways

Value averaging is an investment strategy that involves making regular contributions to a portfolio over time.In value averaging, one would invest more when the price or portfolio value falls and less when it rises. Value averaging involves calculating predetermined amounts for the total value of the investment in future periods, then making an investment sized to match these amounts at each future period. 


   Understanding Value Averaging  

The main goal of value averaging (VA) is to acquire more shares when prices are falling and fewer shares when prices are rising. This is what happens in dollar-cost averaging as well, but the effect is less pronounced. Several independent studies have shown that over multiyear periods, value averaging can produce slightly superior returns to dollar-cost averaging, although both will closely resemble market returns over the same period.



In dollar-cost averaging (DCA), investors always make the same periodic investment. The only reason they buy more shares when prices are lower is that the shares cost less. In contrast, using value averaging, investors buy more shares because prices are lower, and the strategy ensures that the bulk of investments is spent on acquiring shares at lower prices.



The reason value averaging may be more or less attractive to an investor than using a set contribution schedule is that you are somewhat protected from overpaying for stock when the market is hot. If you avoid overpaying, your long-term returns will be stronger compared to people who invested set amounts no matter the market condition.















DCA vs. Value Averaging.
Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Example of Value Averaging  

For the example above, suppose the goal is for the portfolio to increase by $1,000 every quarter. If in a quarter's time, the assets have grown to $1,250 (based on the 100 shares in Q1 multiplied by Q2 price of $12.50), the investor will fund the account with $750 ($2,000 - $1250) worth of assets. Q2 purchase of $750 divided by a share price of $12.50 will buy 60 additional shares, bringing the total to 160 shares. 160 shares x $12.50=$2,000 value for Q2. 



In the following quarter, the goal would be to have account holdings of $3,000. This pattern continues to be repeated in the following quarter, and so on.






While there are performance differences between value averaging, dollar-cost averaging, and set investment contributions, each is a good strategy for disciplined long-term investment—particularly for retirement.


   Challenges to Value Averaging  

The biggest potential challenge with value averaging is that as an investor's asset base grows, the ability to fund shortfalls can become too large to keep up with. This is especially noteworthy in retirement plans, where an investor might not even have the potential to fund a shortfall given limits on annual contributions.



One way around this problem is to allocate a portion of assets to a fixed-income fund or funds, then rotate money in and out of equity holdings as dictated by the monthly targeted return. This way, instead of allocating cash in the form of new funding, cash can be raised in the fixed income portion and allocated in higher amounts to equity holdings as needed.



Another potential problem with the VA strategy is that in a down market an investor might actually run out of money, making the larger required investments impossible before things turn around. This problem can be amplified after the portfolio has grown larger when drawdown in the account could require substantially larger amounts of capital to stick with the VA strategy.
What Is Value-Based Pricing?  

Value-based pricing is a strategy of setting prices primarily based on a consumer’s perceived value of a product or service. Value-based pricing is customer-focused, meaning companies base their pricing on how much the customer believes a product is worth.



Value-based pricing is different from cost-plus pricing, which factors the costs of production into the pricing calculation. Companies that offer unique or highly valuable features or services are better positioned to take advantage of the value-based pricing model than companies that chiefly sell commoditized items.





Key Takeaways

Value-based pricing is based on a consumer’s perceived value of the product or service in question.Value-based pricing means that companies base their pricing on how much the customer believes a product is worth.Unique and highly valuable products are best-positioned to take advantage of the value-based pricing model.Commoditized items are poorly positioned to use value-based pricing.Value-based pricing is different from cost-plus pricing, which factors the costs of production into pricing.


   Understanding Value-Based Pricing  

The value-based pricing principle mainly applies to markets in which possessing an item enhances a customer’s self-image or facilitates unparalleled life experiences. To that end, this perceived value reflects the worth of an item that consumers are willing to assign to it, and consequently directly affects the price that the consumer ultimately pays.



Although pricing value is an inexact science, the price can be determined with marketing techniques. For example, luxury automakers solicit customer feedback that serves to quantify customers’ perceived value of their experiences driving a particular car model. As a result, sellers can use the value-based pricing approach to establish a vehicle’s price going forward.


   Characteristics Needed for Value-Based Pricing  

Any company engaged in value-based pricing must have a product or service that differentiates itself from the competition. The product must be customer-focused, meaning that any improvements and added features should be based on the customer’s wants and needs. Of course, the product or service must be of high quality if the company’s executives are looking to have a value-added pricing strategy.



The company must also have open communication channels and strong relationships with its customers. In doing so, companies can obtain feedback from customers regarding the features they’re looking for in a product as well as how much they’re willing to pay.






For companies to develop a successful value-based pricing strategy, they must invest a significant amount of time with their customers to determine their wants.


   Scenarios in Which Value-Based Pricing Is Used  

There are countless scenarios in which value-based pricing may be an appropriate strategy. A few potential value-based pricing scenarios include:



Convertible. A convertible is perceived as a prestigious, luxury vehicle that draws attention in a way that traditional automobiles typically do not. A luxury automaker may attempt to highlight the prestige of its brand by increasing the price as a signal for how exclusive its products are.
Housing. Many housing markets are subject to inelastic demand, meaning that demand remains high for homes regardless of whether prices are relatively lower or higher. Particularly in a seller’s market, where buyer demand is especially high, lowering the price of a home will have very little impact on the likelihood that it will sell. In this case, buyers must consider the perceived value of a house before making an offer, as another buyer will likely swoop in if they don’t act quickly.
Milk. Some products are subject to value-based pricing without being luxury goods or those with inelastic demand. Milk is a good example of a product in this category. Many different brands of milk are available for sale at most grocery stores, but the price across comparable products is usually quite close. A reason for this is that in a highly competitive, price-sensitive market such as milk products, the price of goods typically settles at what customers are willing to pay. Because one carton of milk is essentially interchangeable with another, sellers have incentives to sell for the lowest reasonable price.
Swiffer pads. Branded products with add-ons or replacement components are another example of a value-based pricing opportunity. Customers who buy a Swiffer Sweeper will receive a small number of sweeping pads with the initial purchase. Once those run out, they will have to decide whether to buy additional Swiffer brand pads as replacements or look for alternatives in brands that may not fit their Sweeper. Swiffer can charge more for replacement pads if customers need to use that particular brand because they are the only ones that fit exactly.


   Types of Value-Based Pricing  

There are two types of value-based pricing: good value pricing and value-added pricing. A brief description of each is below.


  Good Value Pricing  

Good value pricing refers to the practice of pricing a product based on its quality or the service that it provides to a customer.


  Value-Added Pricing  

Value-added pricing refers to the practice of pricing a product based on the perceived value that products and their features add for a customer. Sellers attempt to determine what customers believe the value of a particular feature of the product is worth and price the product accordingly.


   Common Misconceptions About Value-Based Pricing  

Value-based pricing is very widespread, but there remain some misconceptions about this practice, such as:



Value-based pricing is a guarantee of sales success. Companies engaging in value-based pricing should not assume that it will necessarily lead to success in selling their products. Even if a company engages in thoughtful value-based pricing, its success depends on a number of other factors as well; most importantly, how wisely their competitors have priced products.Value-based pricing means companies have to consider every single feature of a product. A common misconception is that value-based pricing means marketers assess customers’ perceived value of every single feature of a product, adding them all up to find a final price. This would be a monumental task for even the simplest of products. In reality, value-based pricing often uses assessments of different features among products to gauge perceived value. For example, if two computers have identical specs except for screen size, this feature may be the most important for setting value-based prices of these products.A brand’s value is key to value-based pricing. Perceptions of brand value tend to be difficult to assess relative to differentiated features. If a product is a certain percentage faster, longer-lasting, or more durable than a competitor, then these differentiated features can be assigned price values. It is more difficult to assess values based on brand alone.


   Difference Between Value-Based Pricing and Cost-Based Pricing  

An alternative pricing method to value-based pricing is cost-based pricing, also known as cost-plus pricing.



Value-based pricing is dependent on the value that customers are willing to assign to or pay for particular products, features, and services. On the other hand, cost-based pricing assigns a selling price to an item by factoring in the costs associated with producing that item. Once those costs are tallied, a markup is added to the final price to generate a profit.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Value-Based Pricing  

Value-based pricing offers a number of pros and cons for sellers. Some of the potential advantages include:



May lead to higher price pointsPossibly increases brand valuePromotes customer loyaltyEstablishes how much a customer is willing to pay for a productHelps to incorporate customer feedback in designing future products



Some of the possible disadvantages of value-based pricing include:



Requires a significant investment of time and resources to collect customer dataPerceptions of value can change over timeIt can be difficult to set a price that works for every customerIt’s a process that is neither exact nor with guaranteed results




What is value-based pricing?
Value-based pricing assesses customers’ perceived value of a product, as well as its features and services, and assigns a price to that product based on this data.




What are 2 types of value-based pricing?
Value-based pricing can be applied to a wide range of products, but two of the most common are luxury fashion items and consumer staples such as milk.




What are the advantages of value-based pricing?
Value-based pricing can allow a seller to increase the price of an item to the highest level that customers will be willing to pay. It can help to promote customer and brand loyalty. It can also help to drive innovations in future products based on greater knowledge of the features that customers value the most.


   The Bottom Line  

Value-based pricing is a powerful pricing tool that incorporates information about the value that customers perceive to come from a product, its various features, and related services. While value-based pricing is resource-intensive because it requires gathering and analyzing customer data, it can lead to advantages in sales, elevated price points and customer loyalty, and other benefits. On the other hand, value-based pricing is not a guarantee of sales success.
What Is a Value Chain?  

A value chain is a series of consecutive steps that go into the creation of a finished product, from its initial design to its arrival at a customer's door. The chain identifies each step in the process at which value is added, including the sourcing, manufacturing, and marketing stages of its production.



A company conducts a value-chain analysis by evaluating the detailed procedures involved in each step of its business. The purpose of a value-chain analysis is to increase production efficiency so that a company can deliver maximum value for the least possible cost.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba





Key Takeaways

A value chain is a step-by-step business model for transforming a product or service from idea to reality.Value chains help increase a business's efficiency so the business can deliver the most value for the least possible cost.The end goal of a value chain is to create a competitive advantage for a company by increasing productivity while keeping costs reasonable.The value-chain theory analyzes a firm's five primary activities and four support activities.


   Understanding Value Chains  

Because of ever-increasing competition for unbeatable prices, exceptional products, and customer loyalty, companies must continually examine the value they create in order to retain their competitive advantage. A value chain can help a company to discern areas of its business that are inefficient, then implement strategies that will optimize its procedures for maximum efficiency and profitability.



In addition to ensuring that production mechanics are seamless and efficient, it's critical that businesses keep customers feeling confident and secure enough to remain loyal. Value-chain analyses can help with this, too.






The overarching goal of a value chain is to deliver the most value for the least cost in order to create a competitive advantage.


   Background  

Michael E. Porter, of Harvard Business School, introduced the concept of a value chain in his book, Competitive Advantage: Creating and Sustaining Superior Performance. He wrote: "Competitive advantage cannot be understood by looking at a firm as a whole. It stems from the many discrete activities a firm performs in designing, producing, marketing, delivering, and supporting its product."



In other words, it's important to maximize value at each specific point in a firm's processes.


   Components of a Value Chain  

In his concept of a value chain, Porter splits a business's activities into two categories, "primary" and "support," whose sample activities we list below. Specific activities in each category will vary according to the industry.


  Primary Activities  

Primary activities consist of five components, and all are essential for adding value and creating competitive advantage:



Inbound logistics include functions like receiving, warehousing, and managing inventory.Operations include procedures for converting raw materials into a finished product.Outbound logistics include activities to distribute a final product to a consumer.Marketing and sales include strategies to enhance visibility and target appropriate customers—such as advertising, promotion, and pricing.Service includes programs to maintain products and enhance the consumer experience—like customer service, maintenance, repair, refund, and exchange.


  Support Activities  

The role of support activities is to help make the primary activities more efficient. When you increase the efficiency of any of the four support activities, it benefits at least one of the five primary activities. These support activities are generally denoted as overhead costs on a company's income statement:



Procurement concerns how a company obtains raw materials.Technological development is used at a firm's research and development (R&D) stage—like designing and developing manufacturing techniques and automating processes.Human resources (HR) management involves hiring and retaining employees who will fulfill the firm's business strategy and help design, market, and sell the product.Infrastructure includes company systems and the composition of its management team—such as planning, accounting, finance, and quality control.


   Examples of Value Chains  
  Starbucks Corporation  

Starbucks (SBUX) offers one of the most popular examples of a company that understands and successfully implements the value-chain concept. There are numerous articles about how Starbucks incorporates the value chain into its business model.


  Trader Joe's  

Another example is privately held grocery store Trader Joe's, which also has received much press about its tremendous value and competitive edge. Because the company is private, there are many aspects of its strategy that we don't know. However, when you enter a Trader Joe's store, you can readily observe instances of Trader Joe's business that reflect the five primary activities of the value chain.



1. Inbound logistics. Unlike traditional supermarkets, Trader Joe's does all of its receiving, shelving, and inventory-taking during regular store hours. Although potentially maddening for shoppers, this system creates a ton of cost savings in terms of employee wages alone. Moreover, the logistics of having this work take place while customers are still shopping sends the strategic message that "we're all in this together."



2. Operations. Here's an example of how a company could apply the value chain creatively. In primary activity number two above, "converting raw materials into finished product" is cited as an "operations" activity. However, because converting raw materials is not an aspect of the supermarket industry, we can use operations to mean any other regular grocery store function. So, let's substitute "product development," as that operation is critical for Trader Joe's.



The company selects its products carefully, featuring items that you generally can't find elsewhere. It's private-label products account for more than 80% of its offerings, which often have the highest profit margins, too, as Trader Joe's can source them efficiently in volume. Another vital piece of product development for Trader Joe's is its taste-testing and chef-partnership programs, which ensure high quality and continuous product refinement.



3. Outbound logistics. Many supermarkets offer home delivery, but Trader Joe's does not. Yet here, we can apply the activity of outbound logistics to mean the range of amenities that shoppers encounter once they are inside a Trader Joe's store. The company has thought carefully about the kind of experience it wants us to have when we visit its stores.



Among Trader Joe's many tactical logistics are its in-store tastings. Usually, there are a few product tastings happening simultaneously, which create a lively atmosphere, and often coincide with the seasons and holidays. The tasting stations feature both new and familiar items that are prepared and served by staff.



4. Marketing and sales. Compared to its competitors, Trader Joe's barely does any traditional marketing. However, its entire in-store experience is a form of marketing. The company's copywriters craft product labels to appeal specifically to its customer base. Trader Joe's' unique branding and innovative culture indicate that the company knows its customers well—which it should, as the firm has actually chosen the type of customers it prefers and has not deviated from that model.



Via this indirect marketing of style and image, Trader Joe's has succeeded in differentiating itself in the marketplace, thus sharpening its competitive edge.



5. Service. Customer service is paramount for Trader Joe's. Generally, you see twice as many employees as shoppers in their stores. Whatever work they are doing at the moment, the friendly, knowledgeable, and articulate staff are there primarily for you. Employees welcome shoppers' interruptions and will instantly rush to find your item or answer your question. In addition, the company has always employed a no-questions-asked refund program. You don't like it, you get your money back—period.



This list could go on and on before ever reaching the four support activities cited above, as Trader Joe's is a wildly successful example of applying value-chain theory to its business.
What Is a Value Change?  

The term value change refers to a daily adjustment made to the price of a company's stock. This change reflects the number of outstanding shares issued and currently held by investors. This figure is updated on a daily basis. Since the number of shares held by investors changes daily, this number can be updated every day to reflect the changes. It allows a group of stocks to be equally weighted and more easily evaluated by investors, analysts, and other financial professionals.





Key Takeaways

A value change is a daily adjustment made to a stock's price.The change reflects the number of outstanding shares issued and currently held by investors.The figure is updated on a daily basis.Value changes are the result of a number of factors, including supply and demand. This figure can be used to weigh individual stocks in a group or category equally.


   How Value Changes Work  

People often confuse a stock's value with its price. It's common for individuals to believe they're one and the same. While that's true to a certain degree, there are some key differences between the two. The price of a stock indicates its current or present value in the market. Put simply, it indicates what the stock trades at or what it costs at any given moment in time.



Value, on the other hand, refers to the actual worth of an asset, including a stock. The stock's value is determined by factors, such as market share, earnings, and a number of other metrics. The price of a stock is normally at the same level or near its intrinsic value. But changes can arise when the market rises or drops.



As noted above, a value change is reflective of the total number of outstanding shares issued and currently held by investors. As such, it describes a type of calculation used to compare and evaluate investment instruments by taking the number of shares held by investors into consideration. And since shares change hands every day, the value change of a company's stock also changes daily.



One of the main reasons that the value change adjustment is so important is because it is intended to equally weigh individual stocks that are included in a group or category. For instance, investors can group together a number of stocks in the financial industry, consumer staples, or retail sector and determine the value change of one company's stock compared to its peers.






The total number of outstanding shares doesn't include stock that has been reinvested by the company.


   Example of Value Change  

Let's use a hypothetical example to show how value changes work. Suppose XYZ company has one million shares outstanding in the public market and decides to issue an additional million shares. These shares will be issued to investors on the secondary market. By doing this, the company's stock price may undergo a value change. That's because of the significant change caused by the doubling of the total number of outstanding shares.
A value date is a future date that is used for determining the present value of a product or security that fluctuates in price. It is the date at which funds, assets, or money's value becomes effective. Typically, value dates are used in determining the payment of financial products and accounts where there is a possibility for discrepancies due to differences in the timing of valuations. Such financial products can include forward currency contracts, option contracts, and the interest payable or receivable on personal accounts.



In forex markets, the value date may be referred to as the "valuta," where it may also be used to describe the value of one currency expressed in terms of its exchange rate with another.





Key Takeaways

A value date refers to some future point in time at which the value of an account, transaction, or asset becomes effective.In banking, the value date is when funds are posted to an account and available for immediate use.For trading, the value date is the time at which a transaction is fully cleared and settled.


   Value Date in Banking  

When a payee presents a check to the bank, the bank credits the payee’s account. However, it could take days until the bank receives the funds from the payor’s bank, assuming the payor and payee have accounts with different financial institutions. If the payee has access to the funds immediately, the receiving bank runs the risk of recording a negative cash flow. To avoid this risk, the bank will estimate the day it will receive the money from the paying institution, and hold the funds in the payee’s account until the expected day of receipt. In effect, the bank will post the amount of the deposit for a couple of days, after which the payee can use the funds. The date the funds are released is referred to as the value date.



Likewise, when a wire transfer is made from an account in one bank to an account in another bank, the value date is the date on which the incoming wire becomes available to the receiving bank and its customer.


   Value Date in Trading  

When there is a possibility for discrepancies due to differences in the timing of asset valuation, the value date is used. In Forex trading, the value date is regarded as the delivery date on which counterparties to a transaction agree to settle their respective obligations by making payments and transferring ownership. Due to differences in time zones and bank processing delays, the value date for spot trades in foreign currencies is usually set two days after a transaction is agreed on. The value date is the day that the currencies are traded, not the date on which the traders agree to the exchange rate.



The value date is also used in the bond market to calculate accrued interest on a bond. Calculation of accrued interest takes into account three key dates—trade date, settlement date, and value date. The trade date is the date on which a transaction was executed. The settlement date is the date on which a transaction is completed. The value date is usually, but not always, the settlement date. The settlement date can only fall on a business day—if a bond was traded on Friday (trade date), the transaction will be deemed complete on Monday, not Saturday. The value date can fall on any day as seen when calculating accrued interest, which takes into account every day of a given month.



The value date is also used when evaluating coupon bonds that make semi-annual interest payments. For example, in the case of savings bonds, the interest is compounded semi-annually, so the value date is every six months. This removes any uncertainty for investors since their calculations of interest payments will be the same as the governments.
What Is Value Deflation?  

Value deflation, or shrinkflation, occurs when retailers and service providers cut their costs and sell smaller packages, give out smaller portions, or generally provide less for the same price so as to maintain the same sticker price. Businesses may do this as a way of stealthily raising prices when costs are rising and consumers are particularly price-conscious.



Economy-wide value deflation is actually a form of price inflation to the extent that it results in lower real consumption at the same price level. Value deflation can lead to an understatement of the rate of inflation and the cost of living if it is not accounted for in the calculation of price indexes.



Value deflation is a form of "hidden inflation," reflected in qualitative changes that are difficult to track with traditional inflation indexes. For example, companies may choose to cut corners on their assembly lines to produce less durable goods. Or they may introduce preservatives to extend the shelf-life of what was previously sold as fresh produce.





Key Takeaways

Value deflation is when businesses reduce the value they deliver to the customer rather than raising the sale price.It can take the form of shrinkflation, where the package or portion sizes are reduced at the same price, or quality reduction, where a subtly cheapened product is offered for sale as equivalent to the old product.  Value deflation can contribute to inflation and in particular to inflation that goes unaccounted for by statistical agencies.


   Understanding Value Deflation  

Value deflation is a way of raising prices, so the consumer is less likely to notice, and it can take the form of reductions in the amount of food in a typical package, reduced portion sizes at restaurants, increased wait times, and reduction in customer service and support, or switching to lower-cost ingredients or materials.



It can be a successful tactic because a lot of shoppers are more sensitive to a price change than to a quality change. From a marketing standpoint, shrinking packages is better than raising prices in order to maintain a consistent price point.



But value deflation can backfire, as Kraft discovered when it shrunk its Toblerone bar in 2016 and made headlines in the United Kingdom. British food retailers have made such extensive use of value deflation to compensate for the weak pound and the increased cost of imported ingredients that shrinkflation has become a phenomenon. Over 2,500 products were subject to value deflation from 2012 to 2017, according to the Office for National Statistics. In 2021, in the U.K., Walkers removed two bags of crisps from its 24-pack but kept the price the same at GBP 3.50.






   Special Considerations  

Value deflation may not show up in inflation measures such as the consumer price index or the retail price index. Many economic statistics agencies use quality adjustment processes to isolate price movements from the changes in a product's weight or quality, so in there it should still show up as a price rise in official inflation statistics.



However, many of the techniques of value deflation may, by design, be difficult to measure. Manufacturers might switch to lower-cost inputs without greatly changing the product. For example, a hot cocoa maker switches to a less expensive sweetener, or a maker of grated cheese products might increase the wood pulp filler content of its products. This may reduce the quality for some customers, but despite the lower quality, it might not be enough for them to change their behavior. Other consumers might not notice the change at all. This may or may not be caught by official data and statistical agencies.



In particular, cutbacks in services or reductions in the quality of ingredients and materials may be difficult or impossible for consumers and statisticians to account for and adjust for. For example, a hotel might direct its cleaning staff to reduce the amount of time spent cleaning per room, resulting in a decline in cleanliness, or a consumer electronics maker might switch to a lower cost customer support provider, resulting in increased call wait times or lower quality service to its users. 



Whether value deflation amounts to the "perfect business crime," or not, consumers around the world should be on the lookout for these packaging tricks. The question is, how far can big fast-moving consumer goods companies take value deflation—and risk damaging their brands—before they are forced to raise sticker prices or face squeezed operating margins.




What Are the Reasons for Value Deflation?
The primary reason for value deflation is the increase in production costs, but without wanting to pass these costs directly on to consumers in the form of higher prices. So, they can keep the price the same but reduce the size of the product, as in the case of shrinkflation.




What Is Deflation vs. Value Deflation?
Deflation is when prices drop in an economy, and is the opposite of inflation.Value deflation is actually a response to inflation, whereby higher costs induce producers to cut back on their offerings to customers in some way.




Is Value Deflation Accounted for in the CPI?
The CPI, or consumer price index, is a measure used to gauge inflation by tracking the price changes of a basket of consumer goods. However, it cannot account for things like reduced quality of a product, shortened shelf-life, shrinkflation, or other forms of value deflation. As a result, these types of "hidden inflation" can be missed from official figures.
What Is Value Engineering?  

Value engineering is a systematic, organized approach to providing necessary functions in a project at the lowest cost. Value engineering promotes the substitution of materials and methods with less expensive alternatives, without sacrificing functionality. It is focused solely on the functions of various components and materials, rather than their physical attributes. Value engineering is also called value analysis.





Key Takeaways

Value engineering is a systematic and organized approach to providing the necessary functions in a project at the lowest cost.Value engineering promotes the substitution of materials and methods with less expensive alternatives, without sacrificing functionality.Value engineering is often broken into six steps or phases starting with generating ideas and ending with change implementation. Value engineering is primarily focused on the use, cost, esteem, and exchange values.The ultimate formula for value is often defined as function divided by cost, with value engineering striving to maximize function while minimizing cost.


   Understanding Value Engineering  

Value engineering is the review of new or existing products during the design phase to reduce costs and increase functionality to increase the value of the product. The value of an item is defined as the most cost-effective way of producing an item without taking away from its purpose. Therefore, reducing costs at the expense of quality is simply a cost-cutting strategy.



The concept of value engineering evolved in the 1940s at General Electric, in the midst of World War II. Due to the war, purchase engineer Lawrence Miles and others sought substitutes for materials and components since there was a chronic shortage of them. These substitutes were often found to reduce costs and provided equal or better performance.






With value engineering, cost reduction should not affect the quality of the product being developed or analyzed.


   Ratio of Function to Cost  

Miles defined product value as the ratio of two elements: function to cost. The function of an item is the specific work it was designed to perform, and the cost refers to the cost of the item during its life cycle. The ratio of function to cost implies that the value of a product can be increased by either improving its function or decreasing its cost. In value engineering, the cost related to production, design, maintenance, and replacement are included in the analysis.


















Product Value


=



Function


Cost








\begin{aligned}&\text{Product Value} = \frac { \text{Function} }{ \text{Cost} } \\\end{aligned}


​Product Value=CostFunction​​



For example, consider a new tech product is being designed and is slated to have a life cycle of only two years. The product will thus be designed with the least expensive materials and resources that will serve up to the end of the product’s life cycle, saving the manufacturer and the end-consumer money. This is an example of improving value by reducing costs.



Another manufacturing company might decide to create added value by maximizing the function of a product with minimal cost. In this case, the function of every component of the item will be assessed to develop a detailed analysis of the purpose of the product. Part of the value analysis will require evaluating the multiple alternate ways that the project or product can accomplish its function.


   Steps in Value Engineering  

Value engineering often entails the following six steps, starting from the information-gathering stage and ending with change implementation.


  Step 1: Gather Information  

Value engineering begins by analyzing what a product lifecycle will look like. This includes a forecast of all the spending and processes related to manufacturing, selling, and distributing a product.



Value engineers will often break these considerations down into more manageable data sets. In addition to assigned financial values, value engineers may prioritize processes or elements along a product's manufacturing plan. Value engineering may also call for expectations regarding time, labor, or other resources for different manufacturing stages.


  Step 2: Think Creatively  

With the core baseline expectations for the product having been documented, it's now time for the value engineering team to consider new, different ways for the product to be developed. This includes trying new approaches, taking risks on things never been done before, or creatively applying existing processes in a new way.



Levering these creative ideas, value engineers will re-imagine how the product will be created and distributed from state to finish. This phase is the "idea-generation" stage where members of the team should be encouraged to brainstorm freely without fear of criticism.



Examples of thinking creatively may include changing the materials used, changing the product's design, removing redundant features, trading off reliability for flexibility, or changing the steps/order of the manufacturing process.


  Step 3: Evaluate Ideas  

With a bunch of ideas now on the table, it's time to decide which are reasonable and which aren't Each idea is often assessed for its advantages and disadvantages. Instead of focusing on the quantity of each tally, the value engineering team must consider which pros and cons outweigh their counterpart.



For example, a single change may result in five new benefits. However, doing so would outlaw distribution to a country that the company exports the most goods to. In this case, the five benefits may not outweigh the one disadvantage.


  Step 4: Develop and Analyze  

Once the ideas are ranked, the best ideas are taken and further analyzed. This includes drafting model plans, detailing changes and their impacts, producing revised financial projections, redesigning physical renderings, and assessing the overall viability of the change.



Be mindful of timeline constraints and considerations when analyzing changes, especially if other departments will be negatively impacted by pushed out schedules or deadline changes. Also, consider how the break-even point of a product may change as a result of the adjustment to ensure the strategy aligns with the philosophy and financial capability of the organization.


  Step 5: Present Discoveries  

With plans devised and presentations pulled together, it's time to deliver the best ideas to upper management or the board for their consideration. Often, more than one idea will be presented at a time so the deciding group can consider and compare alternatives. Each alternative should be consistently presented with fair representation across each choice.



Value engineering calls for enhancing the value of each product; therefore, presentations should begin and end with how the change will benefit the company. Presentations should also include revised timelines, financial projections, drawings, and risks. Often, management may seek specific answers on changes or desire to see different analysis performed than what is presented.


  Step 6: Implement Changes  

As management gives confirmation to move forward with changes, value management shifts from a theoretical practice to an change management implementation process. When proposed changes are accepted, new teams are formed and assigned areas of oversight. Value engineer team leads often remain engaged with the changes to monitor what is being adjusted and how expectations are being aligned with new realities.






If a company lacks the required expertise to brainstorm changes, it may rely on external third parties to manage the first five steps (with the company taking over once it has decided what changes to make).


   Types of Value  

When performing value engineering, analysts must often consider how to define 'value'. After all, one customer's perception of a product may be very compared to another customer based on their assigned value of the good. In general, there are four primary types of value recognized by value engineering:


  Use Value  

Use value is the primary type of value and it is determined by the attributes of the good. These attributes define what the product is able to do, how it is used, and what its purpose is. This heavily ties to product differentiation where consumers can only derive value from a specific good without competitors.



The use value of a product is the primary purpose of value engineering. Without a use value, consumers would not initially purchase the good. For instance, if a type of shoe did not adequately protect someone's feet or make it so they could walk down the street, the shoe has little to no use value. Without use value, products will ultimately fail because they serve no purpose.


  Cost Value  

Assuming we have a good generating use value, it's now time to consider how it takes to make that good. Let's assume the shoes from above are tremendous for hiking, rugged wear, and waterproof protection. This means the shoes may require experienced labor to craft, specifically-treated raw materials for its production, and premium quality control for consumer safety.



In this example, all of the variables mentioned above represent different cost variables with different values. A consumer may value the shoes at $50/pair; if the company determines its cost value is $75/pair, the company must assess how to rebalance the equation. Alternatively, charging a customer prices too high will likely yield negative cost value.


  Esteem Value  

While the use value describes the physical benefit of a product, consumers may also experience intrinsic value that often extends beyond what the product is. For example, should the shoe above come from Nike, consumers may be willing to pay higher premium for the shoe because of the added esteem benefit of the brand recognition.



Though esteem value is often positive and associated with brand recognition, it can also be negative and correlated to brand dissonance. This is often related to the target consumer of the product. For example, low-cost, budget-conscious consumers may have negative esteem value when considering Apple's innovative, higher-cost product line.


  Exchange Value  

The last and smallest component of value relates to a product's ability to be exchanged. With the introduction of international shipping and supply chain analytics, it is now becoming easier for almost any consumer to receive any product in a reasonable amount of time.



Still, a value engineer must how to facilitate the distribution of a product, the physical characteristics of a product, and other attributions that make it so the good can easily be bought or traded. Should consumers find it very difficult to buy or receive the good, value may be lost or destroyed.






There are countless ways to define or categorize customer value. In reality, value engineering encompasses every value perceived or received by a customer whether it conforms to the four primary types above.


   Value Engineering vs. Value Analysis  

While value engineering is the technique often used before a product has been fabricated, value analysis is the technique used to analyze an existing product. The goal of value analysis is often to review an existing set of costs and benefits with the intention of enhancing its value.



While value engineering occurs earlier to prevent value loss, value analysis occurs after-the-fact and may be used to remediate product deficiencies. Value engineering is generally used to aid manufacturing, while value analysis may sometimes be used more heavily in the business or sales department.



Though the two terms may often be used interchangeably, value engineering is the practice of preventing unnecessary costs or deficient value while value analysis is the practice of eliminating costs or negative value components. Changes made in response to value analysis may be brought about during different stages of a product's life span, while value engineering only occurs at the initial product stage.




What Is the Role of Value Engineering?
Value engineering is the process of designing a product to ensure the value a customer receives is maximized. This is a careful activity of balancing the functions of the product along with the financial consideration of a product. In general, value engineering strives to maximize the benefit a consumer receives while minimizing costs.




What Are the Phases of Value Engineering?
Value engineering is often broken into six stages: information gathering, brainstorming, evaluating, developing plans, presentation, and implementation. The phases range from collecting relevant data to designing alternatives to see what management thinks of the potential changes.




Why Is Value Engineering Important?
Value engineering is the process to ensuring your customer's satisfaction and utility of a product is maximized. Without considering a product's use, cost, or functionality, a good may lose its place in the marketplace because it doesn't solve a problem or reflect accurate financial prices. Value engineering is important because it forces a company to evaluate its future plans to maximize profitability.




What Are the Types of Value in Value Engineering?
Value engineering often breaks values into the use, cost, exchange, and esteem value. Though other departments may use different categories to define consumer benefit, the end goal is to ensure all benefits of a consumer are captured for analysis.


   The Bottom Line  

Value engineering is the process of ensuring a product doesn't waste away its potential. Products that lack purpose or drive value will get lost in the marketplace, becoming cost centers for a company that yields little to no profit. By implementing value engineering, a company evaluates how a product can better serve its customers, how value can be created, and costs can be minimized.
What Is a Value Fund?  

A value fund seeks to invest in stocks that are deemed to be undervalued in price based on fundamental characteristics. Value investing is often contrasted with growth investing, which focuses on emerging companies with high growth prospects.





Key Takeaways

A value fund is a pooled investment that follows a strategy focusing on shares that are undervalued based on fundamental analysis.The premise behind a value investing strategy is that once the market realizes the true value of these stocks, the share price will increase and the value fund investor will gain from this increase.Value stocks are frequently well-established companies that offer investors dividend payments.Warren Buffett, one of the world's most successful investors, is a value investor.


   How a Value Fund Works  

Value funds and value investing are often synonymous with strategies developed by investors Benjamin Graham and Warren Buffett. Value managers choose stocks for value funds based on the fundamental characteristics associated with a stock’s intrinsic value. Value funds are typically used as long-term investing allocations that have the potential to grow steadily over time. Value fund investing is thus often associated with investment due diligence and patience.



Nearly every large fund family offers a value fund. Value funds are often broken down into varying components. One of the most popular categories for variation is market capitalization. For example, investors may choose from a fund family that includes small-, mid-, and large-cap value funds.



The premise behind value investing is that the market has some inherent inefficiencies causing specific companies to trade at levels below their actual worth for various reasons. Value fund managers are skilled in identifying these market inefficiencies. In theory, once the market corrects these inefficiencies, the value investor will gain from an increase in the share price. Often value stocks are also associated with dividend payments since they are usually well-established companies with committed dividend distribution programs.






A blend fund (or blended fund) is a type of equity mutual fund that includes a mix of both value and growth stocks. These funds offer investors diversification among these popular investment styles in a single portfolio.


   Examples of Value Funds  

Below are four examples of some of the investment market’s value mutual funds and exchange traded funds (ETF).


  1. The Vanguard Equity-Income Fund Investor Shares (VEIPX)  

The Vanguard Equity-Income Fund Investor Shares focuses on investing in large-cap companies that pay investors above-average dividends. The fund is best for investors who want higher yields and have a long-term investment horizon.﻿﻿


  2. The ClearBridge Large Cap Value Fund (SAIFX)  

The ClearBridge Large Cap Value Fund is an actively managed value fund that seeks capital appreciation and income through a value-focused investing strategy. The fund offers multiple share classes. It also pays a consistent quarterly dividend.﻿﻿


  3. The Invesco S&P 500 Enhanced Value ETF (SPVU)  

The Invesco S&P 500 Enhanced Value ETF tracks the performance of the S&P 500 Enhanced Value Index. Fund managers invest at least 90% of the fund's assets in stocks that are part of the underlying index. Stocks in the index have a high "value score," which means they tend to be undervalued based on fundamental analysis.﻿﻿


  4. The iShares Edge MSCI USA Value Factor ETF (VLUE)    

The iShares Edge MSCI USA Value Factor ETF is an index fund. It seeks to replicate the holdings and return of the MSCI USA Enhanced Value Index. The index includes U.S. large- and mid-cap stocks with value characteristics that trade at a comparatively low valuation.﻿﻿
What Is Value Investing?  

Value investing is an investment strategy that involves picking stocks that appear to be trading for less than their intrinsic or book value. Value investors actively ferret out stocks they think the stock market is underestimating. They believe the market overreacts to good and bad news, resulting in stock price movements that do not correspond to a company's long-term fundamentals. The overreaction offers an opportunity to profit by purchaing stocks at discounted prices.



Warren Buffett is probably the best-known value investor today, but there are many others, including Benjamin Graham (Buffett's professor and mentor), David Dodd, Charlie Munger (Buffet's business partner), Christopher Browne (another Graham student), and billionaire hedge-fund manager, Seth Klarman.





Key Takeaways

Value investing is an investment strategy that involves picking stocks that appear to be trading for less than their intrinsic or book value.Value investors actively ferret out stocks they think the stock market is underestimating.Value investors use financial analysis, don't follow the herd, and are long-term investors of quality companies.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Value Investing  

The basic concept behind everyday value investing is straightforward: If you know the true value of something, you can save a lot of money when you buy it. Most folks would agree that whether you buy a new TV on sale, or at full price, you’re getting the same TV with the same screen size and picture quality.



Stock prices work in a similar manner, meaning a company’s share price can change even when the company’s valuation has remained the same. This means, strictly speaking, there is no such thing as a true, or intrinsic, value of the stock of a given company. But there are relative values.



Market participants can buy or sell shares without being tethered to an objective price figure. Therefore, stocks, like TVs, go through periods of higher and lower demand leading to price fluctuations. If the company's fundamentals are the same, and its future opportunities are unchanged, then the value of the shares is largely the same even though the price differs.






Value investing developed from a concept by Columbia Business School professors Benjamin Graham and David Dodd in 1934 and was popularized in Graham's 1949 book, "The Intelligent Investor."



Just like savvy shoppers would argue that it makes no sense to pay full price for a TV since TVs go on sale several times a year, savvy value investors believe stocks work the same way. Of course, unlike TVs, stocks won't go on sale at predictable times of the year such as Black Friday, and their sale prices won’t be advertised.



Value investing is the process of doing detective work to find these secret sales on stocks and buying them at a discount compared to how the market values them. In return for buying and holding these value stocks for the long term, investors can be rewarded handsomely.


   Intrinsic Value and Value Investing  

In the stock market, the equivalent of a stock being cheap or discounted is when its shares are undervalued. Value investors hope to profit from shares they perceive to be deeply discounted.



Investors use various metrics to attempt to find the valuation or intrinsic value of a stock. Intrinsic value is a combination of using financial analysis, such as studying a company's financial performance, revenue, earnings, cash flow, profit, and fundamental factors. It includes the company's brand, business model, target market, and competitive advantage. Some metrics used to value a company's stock include:



Price-to-book (P/B), which measures the value of a company's assets and compares them to the stock price. If the price is lower than the value of the assets, the stock is undervalued, assuming the company is not in financial hardship.
Price-to-earnings (P/E), which shows the company's track record for earnings to determine if the stock price is not reflecting all of the earnings or is undervalued.
Free cash flow, which is the cash generated from a company's revenue or operations after the costs of expenditures have been subtracted.



Free cash flow is the cash remaining after expenses have been paid, including operating expenses and large purchases called capital expenditures, which is the purchase of assets like equipment or upgrading a manufacturing plant. If a company is generating free cash flow, it'll have money left over to invest in the future of the business, pay off debt, pay dividends or rewards to shareholders, and issue share buybacks.



Of course, there are many other metrics used in the analysis, including analyzing debt, equity, sales, and revenue growth. After reviewing these metrics, the value investor can decide to purchase shares if the comparative value—the stock's current price vis-a-vis its company's intrinsic worth—is attractive enough.


   Margin of Safety  

Value investors require some room for error in their estimation of value, and they often set their own "margin of safety" based on their particular risk tolerance. The margin of safety principle, one of the keys to successful value investing, is based on the premise that buying stocks at bargain prices gives you a better chance of earning a profit later when you sell them. The margin of safety also makes you less likely to lose money if the stock doesn't perform as you had expected.



So, if you believe a stock is worth $100 and buy it for $66, you'll make a profit of $34 simply by waiting for the stock's price to rise to the $100 true value. On top of that, the company might grow and become more valuable, giving you a chance to make even more money. If the stock's price rises to $110, you'll make $44 since you bought the stock on sale. If you had purchased it at its full price of $100, you would only make a $10 profit.






Benjamin Graham, the father of value investing, only bought stocks when they were priced at two-thirds or less of their intrinsic value. This was the margin of safety he felt was necessary to earn the best returns while minimizing investment downside.


   Value Investors Believe the Markets Are Not Efficient  

Value investors don't believe in the efficient-market hypothesis, which says that stock prices already take all information about a company into account, so their price always reflects their value. Instead, value investors believe that stocks may be over or underpriced for various reasons.



For example, a stock might be underpriced because the economy is performing poorly and investors are panicking and selling (as was the case during the Great Recession). Or a stock might be overpriced because investors have gotten too excited about an unproven new technology (as was the case of the dot-com bubble). Psychological biases can push a stock price up or down based on news, such as disappointing or unexpected earnings announcements, product recalls, or litigation. Stocks may also be undervalued because they trade under the radar, meaning analysts and the media inadequately cover them.


   Value Investors Don't Follow the Herd  

Value investors possess many characteristics of contrarians—they don’t follow the herd. Not only do they reject the efficient-market hypothesis, but when everyone else is buying, they’re often selling or standing back. When everyone else is selling, they’re buying or holding. Value investors don’t buy trendy stocks (because they’re typically overpriced). Instead, they invest in companies that aren’t household names if the financials check out. They also take a second look at stocks that are household names when those stocks’ prices have plummeted, believing such companies can recover from setbacks if their fundamentals remain strong and their products and services still have quality.



Value investors only care about a stock’s intrinsic value. They think about buying a stock for what it actually is: a percentage of ownership in a company. They want to own companies that they know have sound principles and sound financials, regardless of what everyone else is saying or doing.


   Value Investing Requires Diligence and Patience  

Estimating the true intrinsic value of a stock involves some financial analysis but also involves a fair amount of subjectivity—meaning at times, it can be more of an art than a science. Two different investors can analyze the exact same valuation data on a company and arrive at different decisions. So, you'll need to develop a strategy that works for you.


  Find a Preferred Method  

Some investors, who look only at existing financials, don't put much faith in estimating future growth. Other value investors focus primarily on a company's future growth potential and estimated cash flows. Some do both: Noted value investment gurus Warren Buffett and Peter Lynch, who ran Fidelity Investment's Magellan Fund for several years are both known for analyzing financial statements and looking at valuation multiples, in order to identify cases where the market has mispriced stocks.


  Purchase for Less  

Despite different approaches, the underlying logic of value investing is to purchase assets for less than they are currently worth, hold them for the long-term, and profit when they return to the intrinsic value or above. It doesn't provide instant gratification. You can’t expect to buy a stock for $50 on Tuesday and sell it for $100 on Thursday. Instead, you may have to wait years before your stock investments pay off, and you will occasionally lose money. The good news is that, for most investors, long-term capital gains are taxed at a lower rate than short-term investment gains.


  Play the Waiting Game  

Like all investment strategies, you must have the patience and diligence to stick with your investment philosophy. Some stocks you might want to buy because the fundamentals are sound, but you'll have to wait if it's overpriced. You'll want to buy the stock that is most attractively priced at that moment, and if no stocks meet your criteria, you'll have to sit and wait and let your cash sit idle until an opportunity arises.


   Why Stocks Become Undervalued  

If you don’t believe in the efficient market hypothesis, you can identify reasons why stocks might be trading below their intrinsic value. Here are a few factors that can drag a stock’s price down and make it undervalued.


  Market Moves and Herd Mentality  

Sometimes, people invest irrationally based on psychological biases rather than market fundamentals. When a specific stock’s price is rising or when the overall market is rising, they buy. They see that if they had invested 12 weeks ago, they could have earned 15% by now, and they develop a fear of missing out.



Conversely, when a stock’s price is falling or when the overall market is declining, loss aversion compels people to sell their stocks. So, instead of keeping their losses on paper and waiting for the market to change directions, they accept a certain loss by selling. Such investor behavior is so widespread that it affects the prices of individual stocks, exacerbating both upward and downward market movements and creating excessive moves.


  Market Crashes  

A "bubble" is the result of investor exuberance, with prices growing ever higher. When the market reaches an unbelievable high, it usually results in the bubble bursting. Because the price levels are unsustainable, investors end up panicking and selling off related assets en masse. This results in a market crash. That's what happened in the early 2000s with the dot-com bubble when the values of tech stocks shot up beyond what the companies were worth. We saw the same thing happen when the housing bubble burst in 2006, and the market crashed in the following years.


  Unnoticed and Unglamorous Stocks  

Look beyond what you're hearing in the news. You may find really great investment opportunities in undervalued stocks that may not be on people's radars, like small caps or even foreign stocks. Most investors want in on the next big thing, such as a technology startup, instead of a boring, established consumer durables manufacturer.



For example, stocks like Meta (formerly Facebook), Apple, and Google are more likely to be affected by herd-mentality investing than conglomerates like Proctor & Gamble or Johnson & Johnson.


  Bad News  

Even good companies face setbacks, such as litigation and recalls. However, just because a company experiences one adverse event doesn't mean it isn't still fundamentally valuable or that its stock won't bounce back. In other cases, there may be a segment or division that puts a dent in a company's profitability. But that can change if the company decides to dispose of or close that arm of the business.



Analysts do not have a great track record for predicting the future, yet investors often panic and sell when a company announces earnings that are lower than analysts' expectations. But value investors who can see beyond the downgrades and negative news can buy stock at deeper discounts because they can recognize a company's long-term value.


  Cyclicality​  

Cyclicality is defined as the fluctuations that affect a business. Companies are not immune to ups and downs in the economic cycle, whether that's seasonality and the time of year or consumer attitudes and moods. All of this can affect profit levels and the price of a company's stock, but it doesn't affect its long-term value.


   Value Investing Strategies  

The key to buying an undervalued stock is to thoroughly research the company and make common-sense decisions. Value investor Christopher H. Browne recommends asking if a company is likely to increase its revenue via the following methods:



Raising prices on productsIncreasing sales figuresDecreasing expensesSelling off or closing down unprofitable divisions



Browne also suggests studying a company's competitors to evaluate its future growth prospects. But the answers to all of these questions tend to be speculative, without any real supportive numerical data. Simply put, no quantitative software programs are yet available to help achieve these answers, making value stock investing somewhat of a grand guessing game. For this reason, Warren Buffett recommends investing only in industries you have personally worked in or whose consumer goods you are familiar with, like cars, clothes, appliances, and food.



One thing investors can do is choose the stocks of companies that sell high-demand products and services. While it's difficult to predict when innovative new products will capture market share, it's easy to gauge how long a company has been in business and study how it has adapted to challenges over time.


  Insider Buying and Selling  

For our purposes, insiders are the company’s senior managers and directors, plus any shareholders who own at least 10% of the company’s stock. A company’s managers and directors have unique knowledge about the companies they run, so if they are purchasing its stock, it’s reasonable to assume that the company’s prospects look favorable.



Likewise, investors who own at least 10% of a company’s stock wouldn’t have bought so much if they didn’t see profit potential. Conversely, a stock sale by an insider doesn’t necessarily point to bad news about the company’s anticipated performance—the insider might simply need cash for any number of personal reasons. Nonetheless, if mass sell-offs are occurring by insiders, such a situation may warrant further in-depth analysis of the reason behind the sale.


  Analyze Financial Reports  

At some point, value investors have to look at a company's financials to see how its performing and compare it to industry peers.



Financial reports present a company’s annual and quarterly performance results. The annual report is SEC Form 10-K, and the quarterly report is SEC Form 10-Q. Companies are required to file these reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You can find them on the SEC website or the company’s investor relations page on their website.



You can learn a lot from a company’s annual report. It will explain the products and services offered as well as where the company is heading.


   Financial Statements  

Financial statements are generally included in a company's financial reports to regulators, but they provide a big-picture view of the company's financial condition. There are three statements publicly traded companies are required to file—the balance sheet, the income statement, and the statement of cash flows.


  Balance Sheet  

The balance sheet consists of two sections, one listing the company’s assets and another listing its liabilities and equity. The assets section is broken down into a company’s cash and cash equivalents, investments, accounts receivable or money owed from customers, inventories, and fixed assets such as plant and equipment.



The liabilities section lists the company’s accounts payable or money owed, accrued liabilities, short-term debt, and long-term debt. The shareholders’ equity section reflects how much money is invested in the company, how many shares are outstanding, and how much the company has in retained earnings. Retained earnings is a type of savings account that holds the cumulative profits from the company. Retained earnings are used to pay dividends, for example, and are considered a sign of a healthy, profitable company.


  Income Statement  

The income statement tells you how much revenue is being generated, the company's expenses, and profits. Looking at the annual income statement rather than a quarterly statement will give you a better idea of the company’s overall position since many companies experience fluctuations in sales volume during the year.


  Statement of Cash Flows  

The statement of cash flows lists everywhere cash came from and went to in a company. It tells you which activities created inflow, such as operating, investing, or financing activities. It also lists which of these activities created outflows.






Studies have consistently found that value stocks outperform growth stocks and the market over the long term.


   Couch Potato Value Investing  

It is possible to become a value investor without ever reading a 10-K. Couch potato investing is a passive strategy of buying and holding a few investing vehicles for which someone else has already done the investment analysis—i.e., mutual funds or exchange-traded funds. In the case of value investing, those funds would be those that follow the value strategy and buy value stocks—or track the moves of high-profile value investors like Warren Buffett.



Investors can buy shares of his holding company, Berkshire Hathaway, which owns or has an interest in dozens of companies the Oracle of Omaha has researched and evaluated.


   Risks with Value Investing  

As with any investment strategy, there's the risk of loss with value investing despite it being a low-to-medium-risk strategy. Below we highlight a few of those risks and why losses can occur.


  The Figures are Important  

Many investors use financial statements when they make value investing decisions. So if you rely on your own analysis, make sure you have the most updated information and that your calculations are accurate. If not, you may end up making a poor investment or miss out on a great one. If you aren’t yet confident in your ability to read and analyze financial statements and reports, keep studying these subjects and don’t place any trades until you’re truly ready.



One strategy is to read the footnotes. These are the notes in Form 10-K or Form 10-Q that explain a company’s financial statements in greater detail. The notes follow the statements and explain the company’s accounting methods and elaborate on reported results. If the footnotes are unintelligible or the information they present seems unreasonable, you’ll have a better idea of whether to pass on the stock.


  Extraordinary Gains or Losses  

There are some incidents that may show up on a company's income statement that should be considered exceptions or extraordinary. These are generally beyond the company's control and are called extraordinary item—gain or extraordinary item—loss. Some examples include lawsuits, restructuring, or even a natural disaster. If you exclude these from your analysis, you can probably get a sense of the company's future performance.



However, think critically about these items and use your best judgment. If a company has a pattern of reporting the same extraordinary item year after year, it might not be too extraordinary. Also, if there are unexpected losses year after year, it can be a sign that the company is having financial problems. Extraordinary items are supposed to be unusual and nonrecurring. Also, beware of a pattern of write-offs.


  Ignoring Ratio Analysis Flaws  

Earlier sections of this tutorial have discussed calculating various financial ratios that help investors diagnose a company’s financial health. There isn't just one way to determine financial ratios, which can be fairly problematic. The following can affect how the ratios can be interpreted:



Ratios can be determined using before-tax or after-tax numbers.
Some ratios don't give accurate results but lead to estimations.
Depending on how the term earnings are defined, a company's earnings per share (EPS) may differ.
Comparing different companies by their ratios—even if the ratios are the same—may be difficult since companies have different accounting practices.


  Buying Overvalued Stock  

Overpaying for a stock is one of the main risks for value investors. You can risk losing part or all of your money if you overpay. The same goes if you buy a stock close to its fair market value. Buying a stock that's undervalued means your risk of losing money is reduced, even when the company doesn't do well.



Recall that one of the fundamental principles of value investing is to build a margin of safety into all your investments. This means purchasing stocks at a price of around two-thirds or less of their intrinsic value. Value investors want to risk as little capital as possible in potentially overvalued assets, so they try not to overpay for investments.


  Not Diversifying  

Conventional investment wisdom says that investing in individual stocks can be a high-risk strategy. Instead, we are taught to invest in multiple stocks or stock indexes so that we have exposure to a wide variety of companies and economic sectors. However, some value investors believe that you can have a diversified portfolio even if you only own a small number of stocks, as long as you choose stocks that represent different industries and different sectors of the economy. Value investor and investment manager Christopher H. Browne recommends owning a minimum of 10 stocks. According to Benjamin Graham, you should look at choosing 10 to 30 stocks if you want to diversify your holdings.



Another set of experts, though, say differently. If you want to get big returns, try choosing just a few stocks, according to the authors of the second edition of “Value Investing for Dummies.” They say having more stocks in your portfolio will probably lead to an average return. Of course, this advice assumes that you are great at choosing winners, which may not be the case, particularly if you are a value-investing novice.


  Listening to Your Emotions  

It is difficult to ignore your emotions when making investment decisions. Even if you can take a detached, critical standpoint when evaluating numbers, fear and excitement may creep in when it comes time to actually use part of your hard-earned savings to purchase a stock. More importantly, once you have purchased the stock, you may be tempted to sell it if the price falls.



Keep in mind that the point of value investing is to resist the temptation to panic and go with the herd. So don't fall into the trap of buying when share prices rise and selling when they drop. Such behavior will obliterate your returns (playing follow-the-leader in investing can quickly become a dangerous game). 


   Example of a Value Investment  

Value investors seek to profit from market overreactions that usually come from the release of a quarterly earnings report. As a historical real example, on May 4, 2016, Fitbit released its Q1 2016 earnings report and saw a sharp decline in after-hours trading. After the flurry was over, the company lost nearly 19% of its value. However, while large decreases in a company's share price are not uncommon after the release of an earnings report, Fitbit not only met analyst expectations for the quarter but even increased guidance for 2016.



The company earned $505.4 million in revenue for the first quarter of 2016, up more than 50% when compared to the same time period from one year previous. Further, Fitbit expected to generate between $565 million and $585 million in the second quarter of 2016, which was above the $531 million forecasted by analysts.



The company looked to be strong and growing. However, since Fitbit invested heavily in research and development costs in the first quarter of the year, earnings per share (EPS) declined compared to the previous year. This is all average investors needed to jump, selling off enough shares to cause the price to fall. However, a value investor who looked at the fundamentals of Fitbit understood it was an undervalued security poised to potentially increase in the future.



Case in point—in 2019, Fitbit posted more than $1.4 billion in revenues; then, in 2021, Google finalized its purchase of Fitbit for $2.1 billion. A value investor purchasing Fitbit stock at an undervalued price of $5.35 on Feb. 9, 2017, would have done well because the stocks were converted to cash at a value of $7.35 per share at the merger and paid to investors.




What Is a Value Investment?
Value investing is an investment philosophy that involves purchasing assets at a discount to their intrinsic value. This is also known as a security’s margin of safety. Benjamin Graham, known as the father of value investing, first established this term with his landmark book, The Intelligent Investor, in 1949. Notable proponents of value investors include Warren Buffett, Seth Klarman, Mohnish Pabrai, and Joel Greenblatt.




What Is an Example of Value Investing?
Common sense and fundamental analysis underlie many of the principles of value investing. The margin of safety, which is the discount a stock trades at compared to its intrinsic value, is one leading principle. Fundamental metrics, such as the price-to-earnings (PE) ratio, for example, illustrate company earnings in relation to their price. A value investor may invest in a company with a low PE ratio because it provides one barometer for determining whether it is undervalued or overvalued.




What Are Common Value Investing Metrics?
Along with analyzing a company’s price-to-earnings ratio, which can illustrate how expensive it is in relation to its earnings, common metrics include the price-to-book ratio, free cash flow (FCF), and debt-to-equity ratio (D/E).




Who Is Mr. Market?
First coined by Benjamin Graham, “Mr. Market” represents a hypothetical investor that is prone to sharp mood swings of fear, apathy, and euphoria. “Mr. Market” represents the consequences of emotionally reacting to the stock market, rather than rationally or with fundamental analysis. As an archetype for behavior, “Mr. Market” speaks to the price fluctuations inherent in markets, and the emotions that can influence these on extreme scales, such as greed and fear.


   The Bottom Line  

Value investing is a long-term strategy. Warren Buffett, for example, buys stocks with the intention of holding them almost indefinitely. He once said, “I never attempt to make money on the stock market. I buy on the assumption that they could close the market the next day and not reopen it for five years.”



You will probably want to sell your stocks when it comes time to make a major purchase or retire, but by holding a variety of stocks and maintaining a long-term outlook, you can sell your stocks only when their price exceeds their fair market value (and the price you paid for them).
What Is Value Line Composite Index?  

The Value Line Composite Index is a stock index containing approximately 1,700 companies from the NYSE, American Stock Exchange, Nasdaq, Toronto, and over-the-counter markets.﻿﻿﻿ The Value Line Composite Index has two forms: The Value Line Geometric Composite Index (the original equally weighted index) and the Value Line Arithmetic Composite Index (an index which mirrors changes if a portfolio held equal amounts of stock.) These indexes are typically published in the Value Line Investment Survey, created by Arnold Bernhard, the founder, and CEO of Value Line Inc.﻿﻿﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The Value Line Composite index contains a mix of roughly 1,700 stocks from the major North American market indexes.﻿﻿There are two forms to the index—the Value Line Geometric Composite Index and the Value Line Arithmetic Composite Index.The Geometric Composite Index is equal-weighted, uses a geometric average, and has a daily change closest to the median stock price change.The Arithmetic Composite Index uses an arithmetic mean, with the daily change in the index reflecting a portfolio consisting of stocks in equal amounts.﻿﻿


   Understanding Value Line Composite Index  

The "Value Line" where the index receives its namesake refers to a multiple of cash flow that Bernhard would superimpose over a price chart to normalize the value of different companies. Value Line is one of the most respected investment research firms. Its performance record has been extremely strong. In fact, the firm's model portfolios have generally beat the market over the long run.



The Value Line Composite Index is composed of the same companies as The Value Line Investment Survey, excluding closed-end funds.﻿﻿



The number of companies in the Value Line Index fluctuates based on factors including the addition or delisting of the companies on the exchanges themselves, mergers, acquisitions, bankruptcies, and the coverage decisions made by Value Line for the Value Line Index. Value Line’s decisions as to which companies to include are undertaken with the intention to create a broad representation of the North American equity market. Additionally, the number of companies listed on any given exchange may vary, as a company may move from one exchange to another or be added or delisted. However, delisting or movement of companies on the exchanges are not factors in the Value Line Index methodology, regardless, whether the geometric or arithmetic calculations are employed.





1961

The year that the original Value Line Geometric Composite Index was launched.


   The Value Line Geometric Composite Index  

This is the original index, introduced on June 30, 1961.﻿ It is an equally weighted index using a geometric average. The daily price change of the Value Line Geometric Composite Index is found by multiplying the ratio of each stock's closing price to its previous closing price and raising that result to the reciprocal of the total number of stocks.﻿﻿


   The Value Line Arithmetic Composite Index  

This index was established on February 1, 1988, using the arithmetic mean to more closely mimic the change in the index if you held a portfolio of stocks in equal amounts.﻿ The daily price change of the Value Line Arithmetic Composite Index is calculated by adding the daily percent change of all the stocks and then dividing by the total number of stocks.﻿﻿
What Is a Value Network?  

A value network is a set of connections between organizations and/or individuals interacting with each other to benefit the entire group. A value network allows members to buy and sell products as well as share information. These networks can be visualized with a simple mapping tool showing nodes (members) and connectors (relationships).





Key Takeaways

Value networks are connections between individuals or individuals and corporations in which their interactions benefit the group.Members in a value network can buy and sell from one another as well as exchange important and relevant information.Value networks can be depicted in mapping tools through nodes (members) and connectors (relationships).The primary advantage of a value network includes the way a business or individual applies the resources, influence, and insight of their network connections.Value networks help their members to grow value and consist of internal (e.g. research and development) and external (e.g. customers) resources.


   Understanding a Value Network  

In business and commerce, value networks are an example of an economic ecosystem. Each member relies on one another to foster growth and increase value. Value network members can consist of external members (e.g., customers) or internal members, such as research and development teams.



Value networks enhance innovation, social welfare, and the environment, as well as many other areas. Weakness in one node can affect the entire network. For example, if a development team is weak, the production team has a harder time creating the product, which can leave a buyer waiting for their shipment.


   Types of Value Networks  

The main types of value networks include the Clayton Christensen network, the Fjeldstad, and Stabells network, Normann and Ramirez constellations, and Verna Allee's networks.


  Clayton Christensen Network  

The Clayton Christensen network describes relationships that already exist externally and that any new entrants into the network will be molded to fit the current network or business model's shape. New entrants will have a difficult time to break through and/or provide new ideas or implement changes because the new entrants will most likely end up accommodating and falling in line with the current network.


  Fjeldstad and Stabells Network  

Fjeldstad and Stabells believe that the most important parts of a network are (1) customers, (2) services, (3) service providers and, (4) contracts that allow access to services. This theory states that customers are essential to the network and their involvement provides the added value. The most common example is social media, e.g. Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, and TikTok, where customers sign up, agree to terms in the contract, and add the value to the network.


  Normann and Ramirez Constellations  

The Normann and Ramirez constellations value network believes networks to be fluid setups that allow for constant change and improvement. It is up to members in the network to analyze the current relationships and look for openings and opportunities as a way to add value.


  Verna Allee's Networks  

Verna Allee's networks believe that networks create both tangible and intangible values and that value network analysis should be incorporated into all facets of a business to extract the most value in every stage.


   Benefits of a Value Network  

The benefit that a value network provides comes from the way a business or individual applies the resources, influence, and insight of others to whom they are connected. A startup, for example, may look to its external connections, such as its investors and mentors, to provide experienced guidance on how to approach the development and growth of the business.



While many founders have a deep understanding of the product or service they develop, bringing that service to market, finding customers, and scaling up the business may be unfamiliar to them.



To make up for this shortcoming, they may seek the advice of trusted stakeholders with experience on such matters, which is considered an intangible benefit of their relationship. They might also look to groups that specialize in assisting startups, such as incubators and accelerators, to increase their exposure to potential mentors and investors.


   Example of a Value Network  

An investor typically provides their guidance to the startup they are backing because, by helping the leaders grow their ideas into a tangible company, stakeholders stand to benefit from the startup’s development. That guidance can take the form of expertise that the investor possesses.



The investor might foster introductions between the founders of the startup and other businesses they can work with to further their plans. For example, if the company needs to produce a prototype of its product, an investor might be able to direct them to another company that creates made-to-order prototypes. Likewise, if the startup is looking for a mass manufacturer or a distributor, the guidance they receive may benefit all involved as it can mean increased business for each organization and individual.
What Is a Value Network Analysis?  

Value network analysis is the assessment of an organization's members and the interactions of these members within a value network. Value network analysis is usually done by visualizing relationships using a chart or web.



Participants of the value network analysis are evaluated both individually and on the benefits that they bring to the network. Value network analysis looks at the business as a whole, including financial and non-financial aspects of operations.


   Understanding Value Network Analysis  

Value network analysis provides ways to assess both the financial and non-financial values and aspects of a business. Most forms of analysis are done in a visual form, usually through a diagram or map of the important relationships and transactions that take place between different points of each network. These points generally represent people—individuals, groups, business units, and even individual businesses in an industry.



Value networks are made up of members and their interactions while producing a product or providing a service. These connections are extremely important in identifying strong companies as well as finding a company's potential risks.






Value network analysis helps identify company strengths as well as risks for a business.



For example, if a network member has a large influence, the loss of that member could devastate the entire group. This is known as intrinsic value analysis because there is value, but it is hard to put on a price tag.


   Applying Value Network Analysis  

The methodology applied through value network analysis can help an organization optimize its internal and external value networks, making the most of its outside relations along with the synergies of the teams within the operation. This includes the exchange of knowledge, information, and expertise across the relationships woven into the organization. The goal of the analysis is to improve communication and collaboration with all involved parties in order to operate at peak and improve overall productivity.



The application of the value network analysis can help organizations for needs such as internal restructuring, improvement of workflow across interrelated departments, as well as for project planning. The analysis can also assist an organization undergoing a merger or acquisition, as it looks to better connect with and make the most use of the new divisions and operations that must be integrated.



If a company is undergoing a process redesign wherein an extensive overhaul and new framework must be established, a value network analysis could be applied to provide a clearer picture for changes that must be made. If the organization needs to formulate a new business model, the value network analysis approach can be applied to identify resources that may be drawn upon to provide new insights into developing such a model as well as toward how the new model can operate going forward.



The research and development (R&D) aspects of an organization can also benefit from a value network analysis by identifying what information and expertise are available to collaborate in the creation of new services or products.





Key Takeaways

Value network analysis is the assessment of an organization's members and their interactions within a value network. Participants of the value network analysis are evaluated both individually and on the benefits they bring to the network.The analysis is generally depicted visually, generally in the form of a diagram or map.Value networks may be internal—factors within the business—or external—factors that are outside the business.


   Internal vs. External Value Networks  

As mentioned above, there are two types of value network analysis—internal and external. The internal branch or factors, as the name implies, lies within the business. These may include employees, management, different divisions within the business as well as processes and activities that take place internally.



In some cases, the value created by these networks can also apply to cases outside of business such as the relationship between two people working together for the same goal. The value of an internal network is assessed by analyzing the relationships between these different points within the business.



An external value network analysis, on the other hand, is dependent on factors outside the business. This may include analysis of its suppliers, business partners and any other stakeholders in the company, and its customers and other end-users. When an external value network analysis is conducted, it reviews the relationship and value created by these external factors have to the business.
What Is Value of Risk (VOR)?  

Value of risk (VOR) is the financial benefit that a risk-taking activity will bring to the stakeholders of an organization. It requires the organization to determine whether an activity will help to move it closer to completing its objectives.





Key Takeaways

Value of risk (VOR) is the financial benefit that a risk-taking activity will bring to the stakeholders of an organization. All activities that a company may undertake, from entering a new market to developing a new product, carry risk. How much depends on the type of activity and the likelihood that the company will not be able to recoup costs.Value of risk (VOR) requires a company to examine the various components of the cost of risk and treat them as an investment option.These calculations are only as good as the data and assumptions imputed. 


   Understanding Value of Risk (VOR)  

In financial theory, corporations don’t have any risk preferences, but their stakeholders do. The goal is generally to make money without being reckless.



Company management knows that if they put the resources available to good use, they stand a decent chance of keeping their jobs and boosting the wealth of investors. Sitting idly means missing out on opportunities or, as some are keen to point out, taking profits and setting fire to them. The problem is that gain seldom comes without an element of pain. Every decision is accompanied by risk and, therefore, needs to be scrutinized carefully before pursuing.



All activities that a company may undertake, from entering a new market to developing a new product, carry risk. How much depends on the type of activity and the likelihood that the company will not be able to recoup costs. At the same time, there’s also the recognition that spending money on one endeavor carries with it an opportunity cost: the potential benefits a business misses out on when choosing one alternative over another.


   Value of Risk (VOR) Method  

Value of risk (VOR) requires a company to examine the various components of the cost of risk. They include the actual costs for losses incurred; the cost of bonds, insurance, or reinsurance to fund losses; the costs of mitigating the risks that could cause the company to experience a loss; and the cost of administering a risk management and loss mitigation program.



Value of risk (VOR) treats each component of the cost of risk as an investment option. Just as with a stock or a bond, the components must show a return on investment (ROI).


   Examples of Value of Risk (VOR)  

A company that starts a risk management department is incurring a substantial personnel expense. The department is expected to shrink the company’s loss exposure by managing insurance and reinsurance portfolios, identifying potential threats, and developing methods for reducing risk exposure.



Should the risk management department be unable to do this, then it’s not contributing to shareholder value. If, on the other hand, a company's expected earnings are higher than the cost incurred to reduce risk, then the risk reduction investment can be considered a positive one.



Elsewhere, another company that got into the smart luggage business—making baggage with embedded microchips and batteries that track location and more—bet that the airlines and regulatory agencies would have no problem with customers checking in these bags. It bet wrong: the smart bags were banned in the U.S. amid fears about battery fires, causing the company to liquidate.



Everything was at risk on that one factor. This begs the question of whether the baggage manufacturer, and its peers, assessed the possibility of rejection at a high percentage of probability. If they had done so, they likely would have never entered this line of business in the first place.





Important

Value of risk (VOR) calculations are only as good as the data and assumptions imputed. 


   Limitations of Value of Risk (VOR)  

Many businesses, especially financial ones, calculate a value of risk (VOR) for nearly all their activities, along with estimated confidence levels that the risk taken will be worth the reward. This task sounds relatively straightforward but is actually riddled with complications.



Calculations are often based on subjective assumptions, prone to oversight, and subject to change. In an ideal world, potential errors of judgment should be accounted for and every angle covered as objectively as possible by relying on more than one source.
What Is a Value Proposition?  

A value proposition in marketing is a concise statement of the benefits that a company is delivering to customers who buy its products or services. It serves as a declaration of intent, both inside the company and in the marketplace.



The term value proposition is believed to have first appeared in a McKinsey & Co. industry research paper in 1988, which defined it as "a clear, simple statement of the benefits, both tangible and intangible, that the company will provide, along with the approximate price it will charge each customer segment for those benefits."





Key Takeaways

A company's value proposition tells a customer the number one reason why a product or service is best suited for that particular customer.A value proposition should be communicated to customers directly, either via the company's website or other marketing or advertising materials.Value propositions can follow different formats, as long as they are "on brand," unique, and specific to the company in question.A successful value proposition should be persuasive and help turn a prospect into a paying customer.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Value Propositions  

A value proposition stands as a promise by a company to a customer or market segment. The proposition is an easy-to-understand reason why a customer should buy a product or service from that particular business. A value proposition should clearly explain how a product fills a need, communicate the specifics of its added benefit, and state the reason why it's better than similar products on the market. The ideal value proposition is to-the-point and appeals to a customer's strongest decision-making drivers.



Companies use this statement to target customers who will benefit most from using the company's products, and this helps maintain a company's economic moat. An economic moat is a competitive advantage. The moat analogy—coined by super-investor Warren Buffett of Berkshire Hathaway—states that the wider the moat, the bigger and more resilient the firm is to competition.






A great value proposition demonstrates what a brand has to offer a customer that no other competitor has and how a service or product fulfills a need that no other company is able to fill.


   Components of a Value Proposition  

A company's value proposition communicates the number one reason why a product or service is best suited for a customer segment. Therefore, it should always be displayed prominently on a company's website and in other consumer touch points. It also must be intuitive, so that a customer can read or hear the value proposition and understand the delivered value without needing further explanation.



Value propositions that stand out tend to make use of a particular structure. A successful value proposition typically has a strong, clear headline that communicates the delivered benefit to the consumer. The headline should be a single memorable sentence, phrase, or even a tagline. It frequently incorporates catchy slogans that become part of successful advertising campaigns.



Often a subheadline will be provided underneath the main headline, expanding on the explanation of the delivered value and giving a specific example of why the product or service is superior to others the consumer has in mind. The subheading can be a short paragraph and is typically between two and three sentences long. The subheading is a way to highlight the key features or benefits of the products and often benefits from the inclusion of bullet points or another means of highlighting standout details.



This kind of structure allows consumers to scan the value proposition quickly and pick up on product features. Added visuals increase the ease of communication between business and consumer. In order to craft a strong value proposition, companies will often conduct market research to determine which messages resonate the best with their customers.


   Special Considerations  

Value propositions can follow different formats as long as they are unique to the company and to the consumers the company services. All effective value propositions are easy to understand and demonstrate specific results for a customer using a product or service. They differentiate a product or service from any competition, avoid overused marketing buzzwords, and communicate value within a short amount of time.



For a value proposition to effectively turn a prospect into a paying customer, it should clearly identify who the customers are, what their main problems are, and how the company's product or service is the ideal solution to help them solve their problem.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


What Is the Purpose of a Value Proposition?
A value proposition is meant to convince stakeholders, investors, or customers that a company or its products or services are worthwhile. If the value proposition is weak or unconvincing it may be difficult to attract investment and consumer demand.




What Is an Employee Value Proposition?
An employee value proposition (EVP) applies to the job market. Here, a company that is hiring will try to frame itself as a good place to work, offering not only monetary compensation but also a range of benefits, perks, and a productive environment. In return, the job candidate will need to convince the hiring company that they have the appropriate skills, experience, demeanor, and ambition to succeed.




What Happens if a Value Proposition Fails?
If a company cannot convince others that it has value or that its products or services or valuable, it will lose profitability and access to capital and may ultimately go out of business.
What Is a Value Reporting Form?  

A value reporting form is an insurance form businesses complete to provide information to their insurance company in order to receive variable coverage amounts.



Businesses that hold irregular inventories typically are the ones that will submit value reporting forms to their insurance companies throughout the year. The irregular inventory may be differences in the quantity, quality, and specific items held. The value reporting form enables the company to periodically report the values of this shifting stock to the insurance provider.



The insurer, in turn, adjusts the amount of coverage to reflect the value of the current inventory. Using a value reporting form can help the company avoid being overinsured or underinsured. Insurance companies may also call this form a stock reporting form.





Key Takeaways

A value reporting form is an insurance form a company with irregular inventory completes in order to receive insurance coverage in variable amounts.Businesses must maintain the correct amount of commercial property insurance to cover them for a variety of hazards.Some businesses hold inventories that fluctuate throughout the year for reasons of supply and demand, seasonal factors, and consumer needs.Using the standardized value reporting form, the business reports to their insurance company the quantity and value amounts of their inventory.By submitting the value reporting form on a regular basis, the company can avoid the extra costs and risks associated with being overinsured or underinsured.


   Understanding Value Reporting Forms  

A company must maintain adequate insurance to cover hazards, and a value reporting form is an essential tool in determining the proper commercial property insurance levels. Some business commerce requires a company to have inventories that vary significantly throughout the year depending on seasonal factors, consumer needs, and fluctuations in supply and demand.



From retailers to manufacturers, this cyclic ebb and flow of merchandise and commodities require regular oversight and monitoring. Most of the insurance industry uses the standardized Insurance Services Office (ISO) form number CP 13 10 for reporting, but there are other forms in use.﻿﻿ Businesses should make sure they work with an insurance agent or broker who is familiar with the unique requirements necessary when using a value reporting method.


   Special Considerations  

When it comes to obtaining insurance coverage to insure shifting inventory, a company has several options.



They may purchase coverage which will include the historically highest or lowest level of stock. On one side of this method, the business is overinsured and spending capital where it is not needed. On the opposite side, the company is putting itself at grave risk if any of many hazards should befall them. The company may split the difference between highs and lows and buy property insurance for the average amount of inventory. Once again, they are gambling they are on the right side of any possible loss.



Businesses may also use limit endorsements which allow changes to the policy throughout the term period, but will also impact the premium. However, endorsements are problematic in that the business must foresee dates and inventory levels, which still leaves the company open to risk.



The value reporting form gives companies yet another choice in setting limits for insurance. Premiums will usually be lower when using the value reporting method. However, this method requires dedication to avoid penalties from misreporting.






A business may face an assessment of substantial penalties for incorrectly filing forms, particularly when a business later makes a claim for a covered hazard. The insurance provider may also apply sanctions for under- and overreporting of property values.


   Requirements for Value Reporting Forms  

The company chooses how often it should complete the form. Value reporting submittal may happen daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, or even by the policy term. Depending on the frequency chosen, there are mandatory dates that the full accounting must arrive at the insurer's office. A company will also decide what to include and how to include items on the reporting form. However, a full and accurate accounting of costs for the reported stock is a requirement. 



Some businesses will use the value reporting form for inventory and use separate property insurance coverage for items such as computers, desks, equipment, and other business property which remains relatively static throughout the year. In this way, companies can maintain an appropriate level of coverage by adjusting each month's or each quarter's insurance needs based on current inventories.



The value reporting form must bear the signature of an authorized company officer or designated employee. The company will need to identify any improvement of the location as well as new locations added since the last reporting period.
What Is a Value Stock?  

A value stock refers to shares of a company that appears to trade at a lower price relative to its fundamentals, such as dividends, earnings, or sales, making it appealing to value investors.



A value stock can generally be contrasted with a growth stock.





Key Takeaways

A value stock is trading at levels that are perceived to be below its fundamentals.Common characteristics of value stocks include high dividend yield, low P/B ratio, and a low P/E ratio.A value stock typically has a bargain-price as investors see the company as unfavorable in the marketplace.A value stock is different from a growth stock which is a riskier equity with potentially greater upside.Value stocks often issue dividends as the company has less need for capital for growth; meanwhile, growth stocks tend to rely on cash for development.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding Value Stocks  

A value stock is a security trading at a lower price than what the company’s performance may otherwise indicate. Investors in value stocks attempt to capitalize on inefficiencies in the market, since the price of the underlying equity may not match the company’s performance.



Common characteristics of value stocks include high dividend yield, low price-to-book ratio (P/B ratio), and a low price-to-earnings ratio (P/E ratio). Investors can find value stocks using the "Dogs of the Dow" investing strategy by purchasing the 10 highest dividend-yielding stocks on the Dow Jones at the beginning of each year and adjusting the portfolio every year thereafter.



In contrast to value stocks, growth stocks are equities of companies with strong anticipated growth potential. A balanced, diversified portfolio will hold both value stock and growth stocks. Investment managers refer to these as a blend fund.






   How to Determine and Invest in Value Stocks  

A value stock will have a bargain price as investors see the company as unfavorable in the marketplace. A value stock will most likely come from a mature company with a stable dividend issuance that is temporarily experiencing adverse events. However, companies that have recently issued equities have high-value potential as many investors may be unaware of the entity. Investors can invest in these value stocks directly or by buying value exchange traded funds (ETFs) and value mutual funds.



There are several ways you can analyze a stock to determine whether it is undervalued. These methods include:



Analyze the Price-to-Earnings Ratio (PE): This valuation tool compares the stock price to the earnings per share (EPS) of the company. A stock may be cheap and could be a value stock if its PE ratio is lower than that of its rivals in the same industry or the historical average.
Analyze the Price-to-Book Ratio (PB): This metric contrasts the share price of a stock with its book value. A P/B ratio less than 1 indicates that the stock may be trading below its book value, which could be an indication of value.
Check the Dividend Yield: A value stock may be indicated by a high dividend yield. A stock may be inexpensive and offer an alluring return in the form of dividends if its dividend yield is higher than the industry average or historic average.
Evaluate Company Growth: This includes the company's historical and anticipated earnings growth. The stock may be viewed as undervalued and a potential value stock if its price does not correspond to the predicted earnings growths.
Compare Against the Industry: Consider the stock's position within its industry and the general market environment while performing an industry and market analysis. A value stock may be identified if it is selling at a lower valuation than its competitors or the overall market.


   Why Are Some Stocks Undervalued?  

There's no single reason a stock is undervalued. In some cases, stocks may be undervalued as a result of investor mood and market dynamics. Stock prices may drop as a result of unfavorable news or pessimism about a certain industry, business, or market, potentially resulting in discounted possibilities. A firm may become undervalued as a result of poor financial performance, unfavorable earnings surprises, managerial problems, or legal challenges. For investors, temporary setbacks or market overreactions to bad news can present purchasing opportunities.



On the other hand, stocks may be undervalued based on more macroeconomic concerns. The state of the economy might affect stock valuations. Stock prices may drop during recessions or other uncertain times, undervaluing them in comparison to their intrinsic value. Stocks in sectors that are presently unpopular or going through a downturn can be undervalued.



Due to a lack of investor knowledge, stocks of smaller companies or those active in specialized markets may be undervalued. A company's stock may trade at a lower valuation compared to its genuine value if it is underfollowed or ignored by analysts and investors. Simply put, investors may overlook good stocks in turn for ones that are more popular or more commonly receive media attention.






A single company can transition from a growth stock to a value stock. For example, once the company has achieved success, investors now measure it differently.


   Value Stocks vs. Growth Stocks  

There's fundamental differences that distinguish value stocks from growth stocks.


  Philosophy  

The goal of value investing is to identify stocks that are cheap in comparison to their intrinsic value. Investors look for stocks that are trading for less than their intrinsic value. Meanwhile, growth investing focuses on stocks of businesses that have a potential for above-average growth in terms of profits, sales, or market share. Companies with significant growth potential, cutting-edge goods or services, and the potential to generate returns above average are given priority by growth investors.


  Valuation  

Traditional valuation indicators like PE ratios, PB ratios, or dividend yield are frequently used to identify value stocks. These measurements assist in identifying whether a stock is trading at a lower valuation than its fundamental indicators or its competitors in the same sector. Alternatively, growth stocks are frequently assessed using unconventional valuation techniques. This includes the price-to-sales (P/S) ratio or the forward PE ratio. Instead of reflecting current earnings or book value, these measurements show predictions for future growth.


  Company Profile  

Value stocks are frequently linked to solid, well-established businesses that operate in dependable sectors. Although their development rates may be slower, they are seen as financially reliable and may be undervalued by the market. Growth stocks are often found in sectors that have a strong potential for growth, such as emerging markets, healthcare, or technology. These businesses may have greater volatility because they are frequently in their early phases and reinvesting profits in growth.


  Dividends  

Value stocks frequently place a strong emphasis on dividend payments, and investors may look for shares in companies that offer high dividend yields. These equities are more common in mature industries, consumer staples, and utility sectors. This is because the company may not need as much capital for growth as the company has already scaled. Alternatively, rather than paying dividends, growth stocks frequently place a higher priority on reinvesting profits in the expansion of the business. These businesses frequently have to use their resources for marketing, R&D, or business expansion.


  Risk  

Value stocks are considered relatively less risky compared to growth stocks. They are typically more stable and have lower volatility. The potential for capital appreciation may be moderate, but they often offer steady income through dividends. In addition, the company is already established so may have already overcome many risks start-up or infant companies face. Meanwhile, growth stocks carry higher risk due to their higher volatility and market expectations. While they offer the potential for significant capital appreciation, they may also experience greater price fluctuations and have a higher chance of underperforming during market downturns.





Value Stocks

Seeks to find undervalued stocks
Often uses traditional valuation metrics
Are usually more established companies
Often issue dividends as there is less need for cashflow
May be less risky as the company is already established



Growth Stocks

Seeks to find companies set to grow
Often uses untraditional valuation metrics
Are usually younger companies
Often do not issue dividends as there is resource constraints
May be more risky as the company is yet to prove its business model or operations





   Example of Value Stock  

Honda Motor (HMC) produces and sells outboard engines, power generators, lawn mowers, and automobiles all over the world. Because the company has a less comprehensive vehicle lineup compared to rivals, it may fly under the radar with some investors. For instance, Honda does not offer a huge SUV or a full-sized truck. As a result, Honda is vulnerable to losing market share if consumer preferences move further in favor of those larger vehicles.



However, the manufacturer also possesses other traits that might be beneficial in the long run. One is that Honda has a reputation for quality, particularly with regard to fuel-efficient vehicles. The leadership group is skilled at organizing. The company's is currently embarking on a cost-cutting plan to decrease expenses. In addition, Honda aims to have 100% of their vehicles be electric in North America by 2040.



On the stock side, as of May 2023, Honda's stock had a P/E ratio of 8.57. This is notably less than rival companies such as Toyota, who boasts a P/E ratio as of May 5, 2023 of 10.14. Also, Honda boasts a stronger dividend yield. As of May 2023, Honda's dividend yield was 2.87%.




Are Value Stocks a Good Investment?
Value stocks may be a good investment for investors looking for lower risk equities. Value stocks tend to relate to companies that have already been established but are undervalued by the market. For investors not willing to invest in start-ups or unknown entities, value stocks may make a good alternative.




How Do You Profit From a Value Stock?
You can profit from a value stock by buying the equity and holding it. As opposed to attempting to swing trade or look for quick appreciation of capital, value stocks may take longer to appreciate in value as the market comes to fully realize its value. In addition, you can make money from value stocks as they generally issue dividends, allowing for cash proceeds during this holding period.




Are Value Stocks High Risk?
Value stocks are generally considered less risky than growth stocks. However, consider that both value stocks and growth stocks are equities which are generally more risky than other types of investments.




Are Value Stocks Better Than Growth Stocks?
Depending on a number of variables, such as an individual's investment goals, risk tolerance, and market conditions, value stocks or growth stocks may be preferable. Value and growth stocks each have advantages, and each investment strategy might perform differently depending on the market conditions. 


   The Bottom Line  

A value stock is a class of stock that the market perceives as being cheap in comparison to its intrinsic worth. Its price is lower compared to its fundamental metrics, such earnings, book value, or cash flow, and this is one of its defining characteristics. Value stocks are frequently linked to businesses with strong financials, consistent operations, and well-established market positions.
What Is a Value Trap?  

A value trap is a stock or other investment that appears to be cheaply priced because it has been trading at low valuation metrics, such as multiples in terms of price to earnings (P/E), price to cash flow (P/CF), or price to book value (P/B) for an extended time period. A value trap can attract investors who are looking for a bargain because they seem inexpensive relative to historical valuation multiples of the stock or relative to those of industry peers or the prevailing market multiple. The danger of a value trap presents itself when the stock continues to languish or drop further after an investor buys into the company.





Key Takeaways

Value traps are investments that are trading at such low levels and present as buying opportunities for investors but are actually misleading.For a value trap investment, the low price is often accompanied by extended periods of low multiples as well.A value trap is a poor investment because the reason for the low price and low multiples is the company is experiencing financial instability and has little growth potential.


   Understanding Value Traps  

Generally, a company that has been trading at low multiples of earnings, cash flow, or book value for an extended period of time has little promise, and possibly no future—even if the price of their stock appears attractive. A stock becomes a value trap to an investor if no material improvements are made in the company's competitive stance, in its ability to innovate, in its ability to contain costs, and/or in its executive management.



Even if a company has been successful in prior years—having experienced rising profits and a healthy share price—it can fall into a situation where it is unable to generate revenue and profit growth due to shifts in competitive dynamics, a lack of new products or services, rising production and operating costs, or ineffective management.



For an investor who is used to seeing a certain valuation of this company's stock, a price that appears cheap can be appealing. Value investors are particularly susceptible to value traps. As with any investment decision, thorough research and evaluation is recommended before investing in any company that appears cheap on the basis of conventional valuation metrics.


   Identifying Value Traps  

Identifying value traps can be tricky, but a careful fundamental analysis of the stock can reveal what is a trap and what is a good investment opportunity. Here are some examples of possible value traps:



An industrial company whose stock has been trading at 10x earnings for the past six months, compared to its trailing 5-year average of 15x.A media company whose valuation has ranged from 6x-8x EV/EBITDA for the past 12 months, compared to its trailing 10-year average of 12x.A European bank whose valuation has been below 0.75x price-to-book for the past two years, compared to an 8-year average of 1.20x.
What Is a Valued Marine Policy?  

A valued marine policy is a type of marine insurance coverage that places a specific value on the insured property, such as the hull or cargo of a shipping vessel, prior to a claim being made. In the event of a loss, a valued marine policy will pay a specified, pre-determined amount—provided, of course, that there are no traces of fraud.



A valued marine policy differs from an unvalued, or open, marine policy. Under that type of coverage, the value of the property would need to be proven subsequent to a loss through the production of invoices, estimates, and other evidence.





Key Takeaways

A valued marine policy is a type of insurance coverage that places a specific value on marine property prior to a claim being made.In the event of a loss, a valued marine policy will pay a specified, pre-determined amount.That means if the insured item depreciates in value, it will not affect the amount which can be claimed in the event of a total loss—and vice versa.Valued marine policies differ from unvalued marine policies, which only assess property value and damages after the policyholder files a claim.


   How a Valued Marine Policy Works  

Insurance provides individuals or an entity with financial protection against a specified type of loss in exchange for payment of a fee, known as a premium. It is possible to insure pretty much anything for a price, including high stake items such as ships and cargo.



All marine insurance policies are either valued or unvalued. In the case of the former, the monetary value is pre-determined and stated in the policy document, therefore making clear any questions about the value of the reimbursements in case of a total or partial loss to the ships, cargo, and terminals covered under the policy. 



These types of plans serve to avoid disputes as to the value of the insured property. When a marine policy contains the words "valued at" or "so valued," there is generally no reassessment or revaluation necessary if an insured event or loss were to occur.





Important

A marine insurance policy should fall under the valued category if it contains, somewhere in the contract, the words "valued at" or "so valued."



A valued marine policy pays a fixed amount, regardless of the extent of the damages. For example, a policy may pay $1,000 per box of lost cargo, regardless of whether the value of the cargo is actually $500 or $2,000 per box. 


   Special Considerations  

It is important to note that if the insured item depreciates in value, it will not affect the amount which can be claimed in the event of a total loss. The same is also true if the value of the item appreciates, in which case the insured would be unable to receive any additional damages based on the increased value of the item.






The distinction between valued and unvalued policies was first stated in the United Kingdom's Marine Insurance Act of 1906,﻿﻿ which has become the basis for maritime insurance policies and laws in most countries, including the United States. 



The Marine Insurance Act of 1906 states that: for an unvalued policy, the measure of indemnity is the insurable value of the subject-matter insured, so shipowners with valued policies may fare better if they make a claim during periods of falling market rates.﻿﻿﻿﻿ In such scenarios, those with unvalued policies may find that any recovery will be only a fraction of what the ship was worth at the time when they took out the policy.



This makes it extremely important for those insuring ships to obtain policies with the proper wording, especially since the distinction between valued and unvalued marine policies has become the subject of legal disputes in many countries.
What Is Valued Policy Law?  

Valued policy law (VPL) is a legal statute that requires insurance companies to pay the full value of a policy to the insured in the event of a total loss. Valued policy law does not consider the actual cash value of the insured property at the time of the loss; instead, the law mandates total payment.



A valued policy differs from an unvalued, or open, insurance policy, in which the value of the property would need to be proven subsequent to a loss through the production of invoices, estimates, claims adjusters, or other evidence.





Key Takeaways

Valued property law (VPL) is a legal mandate that insurers cover the full value of a property if the damage is deemed a total loss.The value to be repaid under VPL can be arrived at using either the actual cash value or replacement cost method.In the U.S., only certain states have valued property law on the books, whereas in other states losses subject to insurance must be proven.


   Understanding Valued Policy Law  

A total loss is a loss that occurs when an insured property is destroyed or damaged to such an extent that it can be neither recovered nor repaired for further use. Often, a total loss triggers the maximum settlement possible according to the terms of the insurance policy. 



Insurance policies generally use one of two methods to determine the value of a loss: actual cash value or replacement cost.



Actual cash value is the most common standard for determining the amount of insurance needed, the amount of loss to be paid, and the amount upon which any coinsurance or similar requirement will be based. Actual cash value is defined as replacement cost at the time of loss, less depreciation. However, this definition is being rewritten through case law and state legislation by the broad evidence rule, which states that the determination of the actual cash value of a loss should include all relevant evidence an expert would use to set the value of the property, including replacement cost less depreciation and fair market value.
Replacement cost means that the company will pay the cost to repair or replace, after application of the deductible and without any depreciation.



In general, valued policy laws require that the amount stated in policy declarations shall be dollar amount paid to the insured at the time of loss. If the value of an insured item at the time of loss is less than the amount of insurance, the insurer has no recourse to contest payment in full. Moreover, in most valued policy states, any policy provision inconsistent with the valued policy law is considered void.



Not all states within the United States have these laws. States that do have valued policy laws include Arkansas, California, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Ohio, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, West Virginia, and Wisconsin.





1874

Wisconsin was the first state to pass a Valued Policy Law in 1874.


   Valued Policy Law Controversy  

Hurricane Katrina forced the insurance industry in Louisiana to examine the Valued Policy Law; few policyholders were paid their entire coverage amount because of interpretations of the valued policy law. Some insurers claim that the law does not apply because certain losses were a result of a non-covered peril (flood), that certain losses were a result of "mixed causation" – a combination of a covered peril (wind) and a non-covered peril (flood) – and that the total loss was offset by other sources including the National Federal Flood Insurance Program and FEMA grants.
What Is the Vancouver Stock Exchange (VAN)?  

The Vancouver Stock Exchange (VAN/VSE) is a now-defunct stock exchange formerly located in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. It was incorporated in 1907 as the third-largest marketplace in Canada behind the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) and Montreal Stock Exchange. Stocks listed on this exchange were denoted by a .V following the ticker symbol.





Key Takeaways

The Vancouver Stock Exchange (VAN) is a now-defunct Canadian stock exchange, founded in 1903 and located in Vancouver.The exchange specialized in smaller and riskier listings, primarily among mining and oil exploration companies based in Canada, some of which proved to be fraudulent.In 1999, it was incorporated into the new TSX Venture exchange, resulting from a merger between the Vancouver and Alberta stock exchanges.


   Understanding the Vancouver Stock Exchange (VAN)  

The Vancouver exchange originally featured primarily small-capitalization mining, oil, and gas exploration stocks. By the early 1990s, however, the Vancouver exchange had grown into a specialty market for venture capital securities. Today, the Vancouver Stock Exchange falls under the TSX Venture Exchange umbrella after a merger with the Canadian Venture Exchange in 1999.



The Vancouver Stock Exchange was recognized as the home for venture capital solutions but many saw through the facade and quickly labeled it the "scam capital of the world." At one point the VAN listed about 2,300 stocks, many of which were considered total failures or frauds. The exchange provides a textbook example of how errors in floating-point calculations can lead to enormous discrepancies in the correctness of the index reading. Ultimately, however, the VAN is an example of one of the world's least successful stock exchanges as it was mostly known for low volumes and speculative listings.



Still, the Vancouver Stock Exchange managed to reemerge throughout the market turmoil of the dotcom bubble, and in 1999 it merged with the Alberta Stock Exchange and Bourse de Montreal to become part of the Canadian Venture Exchange, now known as the TSX Venture Exchange.



The trading floor of the Vancouver exchange remained the center of the new venture division, but that only lasted for two years. In 2001, TMX Group—the parent company of the Toronto Stock Exchange—purchased the newly formed marketplace and quickly renamed it. Today, the TSX Venture Exchange is headquartered in Calgary, Alberta, with offices in other major cities throughout Canada. All trading is executed electronically so a trading floor no longer exists.


   The TSX Venture Exchange at a Glance  

Today, the Toronto Venture Exchange is considered a leader in global benchmarks and venture capital listings despite its previous reputation. The strength of the Toronto Stock Exchange and Venture Exchange now stretches to about $3.5 trillion in market capitalization. The venture division alone offers solutions to 1,713 companies with a total market value of about $70 billion.



Trading on the exchange is comparable with most other major exchanges. There are slightly different order types, rules, regulations, and services that keep the exchange operating smoothly. Some of those orders include traditional limit and market orders to more unfamiliar dark order types. Companies listed on the exchange are subject to various fees like initial application, registration, and monthly costs.
What Is Vandalism and Malicious Mischief Insurance?  

Vandalism and malicious mischief insurance is insurance coverage that protects against losses sustained as a result of vandals. This type of insurance is included in most basic commercial and homeowner policies.



It is an important insurance component for properties that are not occupied during well-known periods of the day, such as churches and schools. These structures can become targets when they are unoccupied because vandals know there is a reduced risk of being caught.





Key Takeaways

Vandalism and malicious mischief insurance is included in most basic commercial and homeowner insurance policies.Schools and churches need this type of insurance because they can be targeted during hours when they are unoccupied.Damage caused by ex-partners is the type of vandalism and malicious mischief insurance that most often results in a claim.Vandalism losses are not covered on dwellings that have been vacant for more than 60 days; losses perpetrated by any policy's named insureds are not covered either.


   How Vandalism and Malicious Mischief Insurance Works  

Due to the risk and frequency of loss, this coverage typically carries a higher deductible for properties that are known to be unoccupied for certain hours of the day, including churches and schools.



Vandalism and mischief are described as the intentional injury or destruction of property. Vandalism and malicious mischief can be written as an endorsement to a standard policy, such as the standard fire policy, in the event that the policy requires a separate endorsement for this type of coverage.



Landlords can also benefit from this type of policy, especially if some of their properties are in high-crime areas. It may be worth researching the best rental property insurance companies to find the best policies and rates.


   What Is Covered?  

Vandalism is damage done to someone else’s property, simply for the sake of causing damage. It is one of the most common property crimes. Malicious mischief is similar, though the damage may not have been intended. Some situations, like egging a house, straddle the line, depending on the outcome.



The peril of vandalism or malicious mischief covers damage to parts of the premises for which you’re responsible, as well as to personal property. If, for example, someone slashes the tires of your bike, which is stored on the property, that’s vandalism. If someone thinks your music is too loud and sneaks into your home to destroy your stereo, that, too, is vandalism. Both would likely be covered losses if they met your deductible.



What type of vandalism most commonly results in an insurance claim? Damage inflicted by angry ex-husbands/wives/partners. Often fueled by alcohol, exes have been known to take revenge on a former spouse by causing property damage and destruction. If your ex comes into your home and trashes it, that’s vandalism, and it's usually covered.






If you’re not living in a dwelling, it's important to take additional precautions against vandalism.


   What’s Not Covered?  

Vandalism or malicious mischief losses are not covered if a dwelling has been vacant for over 60 consecutive days. A structure is vacant is no one is living there and it’s substantially empty of personal property necessary for normal use.



Vandalism committed by any of the insured is also not covered. What does this mean? Imagine that you live with a partner who is a named insured on your policy. Things go south and they move out, but you neglect to have the policy rewritten. That means they’re still insured under the policy. If they return and trash the place, reimbursement would likely be denied because it’s an intentional act committed by one insured against another.




What Does Vandalism Mean in Insurance?
For insurance purposes, vandalism means intentional damage and destruction of property, without theft. For example, a person deliberately breaking a home's windows for the purpose of destroying property could be considered vandalism, but if they broke in for the purpose of burglary it would not be considered vandalism.




Is Tenant Damage Considered Vandalism?
Intentional damage by tenants will not be covered as vandalism under a typical homeowner's policy. The best way to prevent these damages is to carefully screen your tenants.




Does Car Insurance Cover Vandalism?
If you have comprehensive insurance for your car, it will cover deliberate acts of vandalism such as slashed tires, broken windows or taillights, or damaged paint. The exact level of coverage will depend on your provider and your deductible.


   The Bottom Line  

Vandalism and malicious mischief insurance is a type of insurance coverage that protects your property against deliberate damage. It does not provide protection against theft, or accidental damage. Depending on where you live, this type of insurance can offer an important level of protection, along with the types of coverage that protect property against fire, weather and other causes.
What Are Vanguard Exchange-Traded Funds?  

Vanguard exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are a class of funds offered by Vanguard. Exchange-traded funds combine the diversification of mutual funds with a lower investment minimum required. Vanguard also offers real-time pricing. ETFs are traded the same way that individual stocks are traded.





Key Takeaways

Vanguard exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are a class of funds offered by Vanguard.Vanguard's underlying indexes cover both individual sectors, such as materials and energy, and domestic and international indexes.ETFs can have thousands of stocks or bonds in a single fund, so they provide more flexibility for portfolios.Vanguard's ETFs are managed by portfolio professionals and are commission-free.


   Understanding Vanguard Exchange-Traded Funds  

There are currently more than 50 Vanguard exchange-traded funds, which are traded, like any other shares, on the U.S. stock exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) or Nasdaq. Their underlying indexes cover both individual sectors, such as materials and energy, and domestic and international indexes.



The Vanguard ETFs were previously known as Vanguard Index Participation Receipts (VIPERS). In their current form, Vanguard ETFs aim to track their underlying indexes as closely as possible and offer the flexibility of intraday trading.



By developing this class of low-cost funds, Vanguard sought to bring its longstanding leadership in the passive management market to the ETF space.



ETFs can have thousands of stocks or bonds in a single fund, so they provide more flexibility for portfolios. They include all the benefits of an index fund but provide more control for the individual investor.


   Types of Vanguard Exchange-Traded Funds  
  U.S. Stock ETFs  

Vanguard offers a range of ETF products that are focused on U.S. stocks. These ETFs can further be broken down into the size of the companies they target: large-cap, mid-cap, or small-cap. These funds can also be broken down into the performance of the companies that they invest in. Growth ETFs invest in stocks with above-average growth rates. Value ETFs invest in companies with below-average valuations. And finally, blend ETFs invest in a combination of growth and value ETFs.



For example, the Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF invests in large-cap companies. This fund is comprised of a blend of value and growth stocks. It has an expense ratio of 0.06% and a dividend yield of 1.71% as of Sept. 30, 2021.


  International Stock ETFs  

Vanguard has three types of international ETFs: global, international, and emerging markets. Global stock ETFs invest in stocks from all around the world, including the U.S. International stock ETFs invest in stocks from all around the world, with the exception of the U.S. Emerging-market ETFs invest only in stocks from developing countries.



For example, the Vanguard International High Dividend Yield ETF invests in the international market. Its expense ratio is 0.28% and its dividend yield is 4.08% as of Sept. 30, 2021.


  Vanguard Sector ETFs  

Vanguard's sector ETFs are stock-based ETFs that invest in indexes tracking specific sectors of the economy. Some of these sectors include telecommunications, energy, materials, information technology (IT), and healthcare. The advantage of choosing a sector-based ETF is that investors can target a certain part of the market without the risk and research involved in choosing individual companies to invest in.



For example, if you think the banking business as a whole will perform well in the coming months, you might invest in the Vanguard Financials ETF. It has an expense ratio of 0.10% and a dividend yield of 1.69% as of Sept. 30, 2021.


  U.S. Bond ETFs  

For investors that want to allocate their investment assets to an age-appropriate combination of stocks and bonds, Vanguard offers 15 different ETFs focused on U.S. bonds. They can be split into four main categories: government bonds, investment-grade corporate bonds, a blend of these two (government and corporate), and tax-exempt bonds.



Government bonds tend to pay relatively low dividend yields when compared with corporate bonds. However, they also have a significantly lower risk of default. While corporate bonds pay relatively high-interest rates, they also have a higher risk of default than government bonds. Finally, Vanguard's tax-exempt ETF bond category is ideal for investors who hold their investments in taxable brokerage accounts and are in relatively high tax brackets.


   Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs) vs. Stocks vs. Mutual Funds  

Owning an ETF is similar to owning a mutual fund; individual stocks or bonds offer the same built-in diversification and low costs. The funds are also tradable, like individual stocks.



Compared with stocks and bonds, however, ETFs offer less risk and less ongoing maintenance. Vanguard's mix of preselected stocks or bonds means that if one stock or bond in the fund performs poorly, others are likely performing well. Also, investors can leave security selection to professional fund managers. 



Both mutual funds and ETFs are less risky than investing in individual stocks and bonds and they offer a wide variety of options to meet specific investment goals. However, compared with standard mutual funds, ETFs have some unique characteristics that might make them appealing to some investors. For example, Vanguard's ETFs are managed by portfolio professionals and are commission-free.



In addition, ETFs require smaller investment minimums to start with. They also offer real-time, intraday pricing, assessing minute-by-minute changes, whenever they're bought and sold, whereas mutual funds are only priced at the close of a trading day.
What is a Vanilla Option  

A vanilla option is a financial instrument that gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell an underlying asset at a predetermined price within a given timeframe. A vanilla option is a call option or put option that has no special or unusual features. Such options are standardized if traded on an exchange such as the Chicago Board Options Exchange. 


   Basics of a Vanilla Option  

Vanilla options are used by individuals, companies, and institutional investors to hedge their exposure in a particular asset or to speculate on the price movement of a financial instrument.



If a vanilla option is not the right fit, exotic options such as barrier options, Asian options, and digital options are more customizable. Exotic options have more complex features and are generally traded over the counter. They can be combined into complex structures to reduce the net cost or increase leverage.


   Calls and Puts  

There are two types of vanilla options: calls and puts. The owner of a call has the right, but not the obligation, to buy the underlying instrument at the strike price. The owner of a put has the right, but not the obligation, to sell the instrument at the strike price. The seller of the option is referred to as its writer. Shorting or writing an option creates an obligation to buy or sell the instrument if the option is exercised by its owner.



Calls and puts both have an expiry date. This puts a time limit on how long the underlying asset has to move.



For example, stock XYZ may be trading at $30. A call option that expires in one month has a strike price or $31. The cost of this option, called the premium, is $0.35. Each option contract controls 100 shares, so buying one option costs $0.35 x 100 shares, or $35.



If the price of XYZ stock moves above $31, that option is in the money. But, the underlying asset needs to move above $31.35 in order for the buyer to start seeing a profit on the trade. The most the option buyer can lose is the amount they paid for the option. The profit potential is unlimited and depends on how far the underlying moves above the strike price.



The option writer collects $35 ($0.35 x 100 shares) for writing the option. If the price of XYZ stock stays below $31, the option is said to be out of the money and the writer keeps the premium. However, if the price rises above $31, the option writer has an obligation to sell that stock to the option buyer at $31. For example, if the stock rises to $33, this would represent a loss of $165, or ($35 – $31) x 100 = $200, then subtract the $35 premium already collected for a loss of $165.


   Vanilla Option Features  

Every option has a strike price. If the strike price is better than the price in the underlying market at maturity, the option is deemed "in the money" and can be exercised by its owner. A European style option requires the option be in the money on the expiration date in order for it to be exercised. An American style option can be exercised if it is in the money on or before the expiration date.



The premium is the price paid to own the option. The premium is based on how close the strike is to the price of the underlying (in the money, out of the money, or at the money), the volatility of the underlying asset, and the time until expiration. Higher volatility and a longer maturity increase the premium.



An option gains intrinsic value, or moves into the money, as the underlying surpasses the strike price—above the strike for a call and below the strike for a put. 



Option traders don't need to wait until expiry to close out an options trade, nor do they need to exercise the option. They can take an offsetting position at any time to close the options trade and realize their profit or loss on the option.





Key Takeaways

Vanilla options are financial instruments that enable purchase or sale of an underlying asset at a pre-determined strike price inside a defined timeframe. Call and put options, which give their owners the right, but not the obligation to buy or sell an underlying asset, comprise vanilla options.Vanilla options can be combined with exotic and binary options to create custom outcomes.


   Exotic and Binary Options  

Two other types of options can be combined with vanilla options to create tailored outcomes. The first type are exotic options, which have conditions or calculations attached to their execution. For example, barrier options include a level that, if reached, causes the option to begin to exist or cease to exist. Digital options pay the owner if the underlying is above or below a specific price level. An Asian option's payoff depends on the average traded price of the underlying instrument during the life of the option.



The second type of options which can be combined with vanilla options are binary options. The outcome of such options is typically restricted to just two possible results, meaning that the payouts are also restricted. They are typically used to speculate on price movements of an asset. A possible combination between binary and vanilla options would be the purchase of a call/put vanilla option and a binary option in the opposite direction of the former.
What Is a Vanilla Strategy?  

A vanilla strategy refers broadly to one that is simple and straightforward, with little complexity. Vanilla strategies can be a common or popular approach to investing by ordinary investors or certain decisions made in business. Although the approach is relatively basic, many investors succeed by sticking with a simple, proven strategy such as passive investing through broad exchange-traded funds.



Similarly, businesses can succeed through plain vanilla strategies such as focusing business lines in areas where there is a clear competitive advantage. In business, however, a vanilla strategy must allow for some innovation as a competitive advantage can weaken over time for many products and services.





Key Takeaways

A vanilla strategy refers to a simple, yet effective approach that is not overly complicated or nuanced.In investing, vanilla strategies can include passive index investing or the use of a roboadvisor.For businesses, simple vanilla strategies are often cost-effective ways of getting the job done with overly-complicating matters.


   Understanding a Vanilla Strategy  

Vanilla strategies tend to be simple, practical, and often conservative. Generally, a vanilla strategy makes sense when explained in a few short sentences. For example, to build an income portfolio, buy and hold dividend-paying stocks with a history of paying dividends for 10 years or more. Compare this relatively simple explanation to something like an iron condor options strategy, and you can see why it is considered to be a vanilla strategy.



Vanilla strategies are not diminished by their simplicity - they are simply not as flashy or aggressive as other approaches. More importantly, it can actually be difficult to implement and stick to a vanilla strategy long term. When speaking about investment strategies, a vanilla strategy can often be outperformed by any number of short-term strategies. Over the long term, however, a vanilla strategy will generally see less under-performance than more aggressive strategies do in challenging markets.


  Business Usage  

Similarly, a simple, conservative approach in business may not catch the attention of the financial media compared to a highly leveraged tech start-up, but investors will eventually appreciate the strong balance sheet that these companies employing vanilla strategies usually have.



Elements of vanilla strategies in business include things like focusing resources where the competitive advantage is strongest, using only moderate debt financing to fund growth, and avoiding overdependency on a single client or product.


   Example: A Vanilla Strategy for Retirement  

There are many strategies in the world of finance that fit the definition of a vanilla strategy, but one of the most popular is the basic advice for retirement planning. A vanilla strategy for retirement savings includes saving at least 10% of one's annual income, investing in a diversified portfolio of stocks and bonds through tax-advantaged savings accounts like a 401(k) and Roth IRA, and buying a home with a plan to pay off the mortgage before reaching retirement. There is nothing interesting or unique about this strategy; it is "vanilla," because it is ordinary and many people find success with it.



A higher-risk portfolio approach to retirement, by contrast, would include a focus on momentum, concentration, penny stocks, emerging countries or technologies, currencies, futures, and/or options. It may work, but there are not many people who have had success with such an aggressive approach to their retirement portfolio. Part of the reason for that is the fact that a higher-risk portfolio requires skill and constant attention. The vanilla strategy is much less work.
What Is a Vanishing Premium?  

A vanishing premium is a periodic fee paid for an insurance policy that continues until the cash value of the policy grows enough to cover the fee. At that point, the premium "vanishes" as payments are no longer necessary, but are instead covered by the policy's internal value and dividend stream.





Key Takeaways

A vanishing premium allows a holder of permanent life insurance to use the dividends earned on the policy to pay the premium required.Over a number of years, the cash value of the policy grows to the point where the dividend earned is equal to the premium that is owed.Eventually, the dividend payments are able to be used to cover the cost of the premium, and as a result, the premium is said to have "vanished."More often than not, premiums don't so much vanish as they do decrease, with dividends covering a greater portion of the premium over time.


   How a Vanishing Premium Works  

A vanishing premium provides a holder of a life insurance policy with an option to pay premiums from the cash accrued in the policy rather than via payments made by the insured. The premium only vanishes in the sense that the policyholder no longer has to pay it out of pocket after a period of time.



The funds for the premiums simply come out of the dividends thrown off by the cash accrued in the investment. This allows the policyholder to put cash otherwise needed for premiums to some other, more lucrative use. It also guarantees the insurance coverage will not lapse, as the premium payments get made automatically.



Consumers interested in policies with vanishing premiums should pay close attention to the math used to justify the date the premiums will vanish. In order to eliminate premiums, the underlying investments in the policy must maintain interest or dividend rates sufficient to make payments.


   Overly Optimistic Assumptions and Vanishing Premiums  

Historically, vanishing premiums have been implicated in insurance fraud schemes in which insurers used misleading sales illustrations to fool potential clients into believing their premiums would vanish much sooner than they actually did.



Unrealistic assumptions about interest rates and investment returns can make a big difference when an investor attempts to accrue enough principal to throw off dividends at a defined threshold, which essentially describes the case of a vanishing premium.






Vanishing premiums have been controversial in the past when insurance companies have been overly optimistic about potential future investment returns and the timing for when premiums will vanish.


   Vanishing Premium Example  

For example, consider a whole-life insurance policy with a $5,000 premium. In order for the premium to vanish, the accrued cash value of the policy must throw off an annual dividend of $5,000. At an interest rate of 5 percent, the cash value of the policy would need to reach $100,000 to get rid of the premium.


   Special Considerations  

Whole-life policies typically provide a minimum annual growth number alongside an expected growth number that depends upon the performance of the insurance company's investment portfolio. The minimum growth rate could require significantly more time to reach the threshold needed to make premiums vanish, and that would only work if the interest rate remained high enough to keep the threshold amount of principal in place.



Given that premiums do not vanish so much as they decrease dividend payouts, savvy investors will calculate the total cost of a whole-life investment with vanishing premiums and set it against cheaper options such as term life, calculating potential upside from investing the difference between those two premium prices in another investment vehicle.
What is Vanishing Premium Policy  

A vanishing premium policy is a form of permanent life insurance in which the holder can use dividends from the policy to pay its premiums. Over time, the cash value of the policy increases to the point where dividends earned by the policy equal the premium payment. At this point, the premium is said to disappear, or vanish.


   Understanding Vanishing Premium Policy  

Vanishing premium policies may be appropriate for consumers worried about longer-term fluctuations in income, such as the self-employed, people who wish to start a business, or individuals who wish to retire early.



Some come with a high annual premium in the early years, at which time the life insurance policy offers modest benefits. The premium may subsequently drop and benefits then increase. Other policies may have a fairly steady premium and a set level of benefits until the vanishing point. In each case, cash value generally increases over time.



A vanishing premium policy may be suitable for consumers who plan to use the policy benefits as supplemental income upon retirement. In the interim, the policy offers policyholders tax-deferred advantages while cash value accumulates. In some instances, a person uses a vanishing premium policy in conjunction with estate planning.





Key Takeaways

Dividend payments, based on current interest rates, from the cash value of life insurance are supposed to cover for premium payments after some time in vanishing premium policies.Such policies generally charge high premiums with few benefits in their early years.There was a boom in vanishing premium policies during late 1970s and 1980s, a period of high interest rates.Vanishing premium policies make sense during periods of high interest rates.



One criticism of vanishing premium policies is that some insurance representatives who had sold these products in the past faced accusations that they misled consumers regarding the number of years for which they would have to pay premiums before the policy could support itself. This situation was a result of circumstances in which vanishing premium policies came into existence. (See below).



Consumers may also want to be careful not to rely mainly on the maximum benefit relative to minimum premiums, as the amount earned could fall below this scenario.



Lastly, it is important for prospective buyers to understand that the amount credited to cash value is lower when interest rates are lower than the expectation described in the policy; if this happens, policyholders may end up paying premiums for more years than they first thought. This also is why buying a vanishing premium policy during a period of historically high interest rates might be a bad idea.


   A Brief History of the Vanishing Premium Policy  

Vanishing premium policies were popular in late 1970s and early 1980s when nominal interest rates were high in the United States. Many policies were sold as a form of whole life insurance. However, when dividend rates eventually followed interest rates lower, policyholders were forced to continue paying premiums for periods longer than they had initially expected. In some cases, the premiums never went away: the vanishing premiums never vanished. Policyholders sued, claiming they were misled.



Suits were filed against major insurers including New York Life, Prudential, Metropolitan, Transamerica, John Hancock, Great-West, Jackson National, and Crown Life Insurance. Crown Life settled a class action suit with policyholders for $27 million. In a separate case brought by a policyholder in Texas, Crown Life was initially hit with a $50 million ruling but later settled out of court for an undisclosed sum. Great West settled its class action suit for $30 million, while New York Life Insurance paid out $65 million.﻿﻿



Negative publicity concerning vanishing premium policies led to regulatory investigations and Money Magazine to list the policies as one of the "eight biggest rip-offs in America" on its August 1995 cover.﻿﻿



However, legal scholars suggest the insurance companies did not breach their contracts with policyholders. The written contracts expressly stated that future interest rate credits were not guaranteed and depended on the discretion of the insurers "in light of future economic events." Additionally, state laws also provided customers with a "free look" period during which they could back out of an insurance contract.﻿﻿﻿


   Examples of Vanishing Premium Insurance Policy  

Interest rates on one-year Treasury Bills rose as high as 16% at the start of the 1980s but fell to 3% in the early 1990s.﻿﻿﻿ Insurance companies enjoyed peak sales of vanishing premium insurance policies during the 1980s. But when interest rates dropped in the 1990s, they faced lawsuits from customers.



In one case, Mark Markarian sued Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance. When Markarian bought a life insurance policy in 1987, his broker said he would only need to pay premiums of $1,255 for the next seven years and $244 in the eighth year. But Markarian received a notice from Connecticut Mutual in 1995, claiming he still owed premium payments.﻿﻿﻿



Other cases raised similar complaints. For example, an insurance broker filed a cross-claim against Crown Life Insurance Company after a client had filed suit against him. Based on Crown's projections, the broker had told his client their premiums would not exceed $91,520, when in fact the clients later learned the premiums would never vanish and could total more than $800,000.﻿﻿﻿
What Is VantageScore?  

VantageScore is a consumer credit scoring model introduced by the major three credit bureaus (Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion) in 2006 as an alternative to the FICO score, created by the Fair Isaac Corporation in 1989. Both it and FICO scores are in wide use today.





Key Takeaways

VantageScore is a credit scoring model that assigns consumers a score between 300 and 850 based on their credit history. It is an alternative to the more commonly used FICO scores.VantageScore was developed by the three major credit rating agencies—Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. They also continue to use FICO scores.VantageScore says it uses "machine learning" techniques to produce a more accurate and predictive picture of a consumer's creditworthiness.


   How VantageScore Works  

The latest version of VantageScore is VantageScore 4. It is calculated based on six factors, each assigned its own weighting:



Payment history (41%)Age/mix of credit (20%)Credit utilization (20%)New credit (11%)Credit balance (6%)Available credit (2%)



The first three factors are by far the most important, accounting for 81% of a person's VantageScore. Payment history reflects how consistently the person has paid their credit bills on time. Age and mix of credit refers to how long they have had their credit accounts and whether they have used different kinds of credit, such as a credit card and an auto loan (it's a plus to have older accounts and several account types). Credit utilization looks at how much of a person's available credit they're currently using (the lower the percentage, the better).



VantageScore obtains its information from all three credit bureaus, private companies that create and sell credit reports on individuals. Credit reports consist of information on the person's current and recent credit accounts (such as mortgages, auto loans, and credit cards), typically going back as far as seven years. They do not contain information on the person's income or assets, or personal details such as their marital status, race, or ethnicity.



Credit bureaus obtain their information from individuals' creditors and, in some cases, court records. Because not every creditor supplies information to all three bureaus (and some don't supply it to any of them), a person's credit report can differ from one bureau to another. VantageScore cites its access to reports from all three bureaus as one of its advantages, billing itself as "the first and only tri-bureau credit scoring model."



VantageScore also highlights its use of "machine learning" and trended data. "Trended credit data," it explains, "reflects changes in credit behaviors over time, in contrast to the static, individual credit history records that have long been available in consumer credit files and used in generic scoring models." These techniques, it says, allow it to assign credit scores to more people, especially those whose credit histories are too short for other credit scoring models, often referred to as people with thin files.


   What Is a Good VantageScore?  

Like FICO scores, VantageScores currently run from 300 to 850. (Earlier VantageScores used a 501 to 990 scale.) The higher a person's score, the more creditworthy they are judged to be.



According to the credit bureau Experian, VantageScores break down this way:



Excellent: 750 to 850Good: 700 to 749Poor: 550 to 649Very poor: 300 to 549


   Differences Between FICO Scores and VantageScores  

FICO scores remain the most widely used credit score, employed by about 90% of top lenders, FICO says. However, VantageScores are becoming more widely adopted. According to the consulting firm Oliver Wyman, between 2019 and 2022 VantageScore usage grew by 18%.



Unlike VantageScore, FICO bases its scores on five, rather than six, factors and assigns them somewhat different weightings. These are the weights that FICO says it uses.



Payment history: 35%Amounts owed: 30% (this includes credit utilization)Length of credit history: 15%Credit mix: 10%New credit: 10%



There are several other points of difference between FICO and VantageScore. As mentioned, VantageScores combine information from all three credit bureaus, while the FICO scores issued by a particular credit bureau are based on the information in that bureau's files. The three bureaus also issue multiple versions of FICO scores, based on different FICO models, including some tailored for specific types of lenders, such as mortgage companies or credit card issuers. Equifax and TransUnion each offer 13 different FICO scores, while Experian has 14.



FICO scores require a credit history of at least six months or at least one update to the person's files in the past six months, while VantageScores can be calculated for people with briefer credit histories or dormant files. VantageScore says that allows it "to score approximately 37 million more consumers who typically are not scored by conventional models without relaxing standards." All told, VantageScore adds, its model is capable of scoring about 94% of the adult population in the U.S.




How Can You Obtain Your Credit Score?
You can obtain your credit score free of charge from many banks and credit card companies. There are also websites that make free credit scores available. In many instances the free credit scores that these sources provide will be VantageScores.




How Can You Obtain Your Credit Reports?
By law you are entitled to a free copy of your credit report from each of the three major credit bureaus at least once every 12 months. The official website for all three bureaus is AnnualCreditReport.com. Note that your credit score is not part of your credit report, so you have to obtain it separately.




How Can You Improve Your Credit Score?
Whether it's a FICO score or a VantageScore, the best ways to improve your credit score—and keep it in good shape— are to pay your credit bills on time every month and to keep your credit utilization ratio as low as possible. As a general rule that's under 30%.


   The Bottom Line  

VantageScore says its credit scoring model allows it to assign scores to some 94% of adults, so chances are that you have one or will soon. VantageScores differ from FICO scores in a number of ways, but the credit habits that will earn you a good score (or a bad one) are similar and worth paying attention to if you hope to obtain a loan or other form of credit in the future.
What Is Variability?  

Variability, almost by definition, is the extent to which data points in a statistical distribution or data set diverge—vary—from the average value, as well as the extent to which these data points differ from each other. In financial terms, this is most often applied to the variability of investment returns. Understanding the variability of investment returns is just as important to professional investors as understanding the value of the returns themselves. Investors equate a high variability of returns to a higher degree of risk when investing.





Key Takeaways

Variability refers to the divergence of data from its mean value, and is commonly used in the statistical and financial sectors. Variability in finance is most commonly applied to variability of returns, wherein investors prefer investments that have higher return with less variability.Variability is used to standardize the returns obtained on an investment and provides a point of comparison for additional analysis.


   Understanding Variability  

Professional investors perceive the risk of an asset class to be directly proportional to the variability of its returns. As a result, investors demand a greater return from assets with higher variability of returns, such as stocks or commodities, than what they might expect from assets with lower variability of returns, such as Treasury bills.



This difference in expectation is also known as the risk premium. The risk premium refers to the amount required to motivate investors to place their money in higher-risk assets. If an asset displays a greater variability of returns but does not show a greater rate of return, investors will not be as likely to invest money in that asset.



Variability in statistics refers to the difference being exhibited by data points within a data set, as related to each other or as related to the mean. This can be expressed through the range, variance or standard deviation of a data set. The field of finance uses these concepts as they are specifically applied to price data and the returns that changes in price imply.



The range refers to the difference between the largest and smallest value assigned to the variable being examined. In statistical analysis, the range is represented by a single number. In financial data, this range is most commonly referring to the highest and lowest price value for a given day or another time period. The standard deviation is representative of the spread existing between price points within that time period, and the variance is the square of the standard deviation based on the list of data points in that same time period.


   Special Considerations Variability in Investing  

One measure of reward-to-variability is the Sharpe ratio, which measures the excess return or risk premium per unit of risk for an asset. In essence, the Sharpe ratio provides a metric to compare the amount of compensation an investor receives with regard to the overall risk being assumed by holding said investment. The excess return is based on the amount of return experienced beyond investments that are considered free of risk. All else being equal, the asset with the higher Sharpe ratio delivers more return for the same amount of risk.
What Is Variable Annuitization?  

Variable Annuitization is an annuity option in which the amount of the income payments received by the policyholder will vary according to the investment performance of the annuity. Variable annuitization is one option that can be selected by the policyholder during the annuitization phase of a contract, which is the phase in which the policyholder exchanges the accumulated value of the annuity for a stream of regular income payments guaranteed for life or guaranteed for a specified number of years.





Key Takeaways

During the accumulation phase of an annuity, an investor adds funds, and the earnings are allowed to grow tax-deferred.When the policyholder is ready to start cashing out, they can choose to make withdrawals or to annuitize the contract.If the policyholder chooses to annuitize the contract, they will choose either fixed or variable payments.A variable annuity is just like it sounds—variable. The payments are based on the performance of the annuity's assets.There is more profit potential with a variable annuity. However, during market downturns, payments will be lower than an annuity with a fixed rate.


   Understanding Variable Annuitization  

There are two phases to the life of an annuity. During the accumulation phase, an investor adds into the annuity, with all earnings that accrue during this phase being exempt from current income tax. Once a policyholder is ready to start receiving income from the annuity, they can choose to: Make withdrawals (on an ad hoc or systematic basis) or annuitize the contract and elect either fixed or variable payments.



During the annuitization phase, for annuities purchased with after-tax dollars, a fixed amount of each payment is treated as a non-taxable return of the original basis, and the balance is taxed as income. Alternatively, all annuity income received through withdrawals is generally taxed as income until all the earnings have been withdrawn.



After all earnings have been withdrawn, withdrawals are non-taxable returns of the original (already taxed) investment in the annuity. For annuities purchased with pre-tax dollars, all income—whether via annuitization or from withdrawals—is fully taxable as ordinary income.


   Variable Annuity Considerations  

Choosing how to receive payments from an annuity can be difficult for investors, and often comes down to the amount of risk the policyholder is willing to take compared with the amount of returns the policyholder wants.



Choosing a fixed annuitization means that the policyholder will receive the same amount of money in each periodic annuity income payment over the life of the annuity, regardless of how the portfolio of the annuity company performs. But variable annuity payments differ in that the value received by the policyholder is designed to vary over time. This is because the payments are based on the performance of an underlying portfolio.



"Variable annuities are highly complex financial products," according to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), which regulates advisors. "They have multiple insurance features that might be appealing to some individuals. But it’s important to understand that those features come with a myriad of fees and charges. Because variable annuities are complicated and costly, they require especially careful consideration."



Considerations include: how long your money will be tied up, whether there are surrender charges or other penalties if money is withdrawn early, what financial benefit or commission a firm receives for selling you the annuity, what are the risks that the investment could lose value, and what fees and expenses you can expect.



Purchasing an annuity can provide a level of income security, but can also lock in funds into a specific product that may not perform as well as expected. Professionals who sell annuities typically receive a commission based on the type and value of the annuity sold. Variable annuities values are tied to the performance of mutual fund-like instruments called sub-accounts the annuity owner selects.
What Is a Variable Annuity?  

A variable annuity is a type of annuity contract, the value of which can vary based on the performance of an underlying portfolio of sub accounts. Sub accounts and mutual funds are conceptually identical, but sub accounts don’t have ticker symbols that investors can easily type into a fund tracker for research purposes.



Among annuities, variable annuities differ from fixed annuities, which provide a specific and guaranteed return.





Key Takeaways

The value of a variable annuity is based on the performance of an underlying portfolio of sub accounts selected by the annuity owner.Fixed annuities, on the other hand, provide a guaranteed return.Variable annuities offer the possibility of higher returns and greater income than fixed annuities, but there’s also a risk that the account will fall in value.


   Understanding Variable Annuities  

Two elements contribute to the value of a variable annuity: the principal, which is the amount of money you pay into the annuity, and the returns that your annuity’s underlying investments deliver on that principal over the course of time.



The most popular type of variable annuity is likely a deferred annuity. Often used for retirement planning purposes, it is meant to provide a regular (monthly, quarterly, or annual) income stream, starting at some point in the future. There are also immediate annuities, which begin paying income right away.







Variable Annuity Basics



You can buy an annuity with either a lump sum or a series of payments, and the account’s value will grow accordingly. In the case of deferred annuities, this is often referred to as the accumulation phase. The second phase is triggered when the annuity owner asks the insurer to start the flow of income, often referred to as the payout phase. Some annuities will not allow you to withdraw additional funds from the account once the payout phase has begun.



Variable annuities should be considered long-term investments due to the limitations on withdrawals. Typically, they allow one withdrawal each year during the accumulation phase. However, if you take a withdrawal during the contract’s surrender period, which can be as long as 10 years, you’ll generally have to pay a surrender fee. As with most retirement account options, withdrawals before the age of 59½ will result in a 10% tax penalty.


   Variable Annuities vs. Fixed Annuities  

Variable annuities were introduced in the 1950s as an alternative to fixed annuities, which offer a guaranteed—but often low—payout during the annuitization phase. (The exception is the fixed income annuity, which has a moderate to high payout that rises as the annuitant ages).



Variable annuities gave buyers a chance to benefit from rising markets by investing in a menu of mutual funds offered by the insurer. The upside was the possibility of higher returns during the accumulation phase and a larger income during the payout phase. The downside was that the buyer was exposed to market risk, which could result in losses. With a fixed annuity, by contrast, the insurance company assumes the risk of delivering whatever return it has promised.


   Variable Annuity Advantages and Disadvantages  

In deciding whether to put money into a variable annuity vs. some other type of investment, it’s worth weighing these pros and cons.





Pros

Tax-deferred growth
Income stream tailored to your needs
Guaranteed death benefit
Funds off-limits to creditors



Cons

Riskier than fixed annuities
Surrender fees and penalties for early withdrawal
High fees






Below are some details for each side.


  Advantages  

Variable annuities grow tax-deferred, so you don’t have to pay taxes on any investment gains until you begin receiving income or make a withdrawal. This is also true of retirement accounts, such as traditional IRAs and 401(k)s.
You can tailor the income stream to suit your needs.
If you die before the payout phase, your beneficiaries may receive a guaranteed death benefit.
The funds in an annuity are off-limits to creditors and other debt collectors. This is also generally true of retirement plans.


  Disadvantages  

Variable annuities are riskier than fixed annuities because the underlying investments may lose value.If you need to withdraw money from the account because of a financial emergency, you may face surrender fees. Any withdrawals you make prior to the age of 59½ may also be subject to a 10% tax penalty.The fees on variable annuities can be quite hefty.




What Is an Annuity?
An annuity is an insurance product that promises to pay out income at a future date based on invested funds. If one purchases an annuity for a set price, the issuing company would invest the funds and hold them until they are supposed to be disbursed, generally based on the owner’s age.Annuities are similar to other forms of investing in that the owner invests money with the hope that it will gain in value, but annuities also come with higher fees than most mutual funds.




Which Earns More: Variable or Fixed Annuities?
There is no clear answer to this. While variable annuities have greater potential for earnings, since their interest rate rises and falls with their underlying investments, they can lose money. They are also riddled with fees, which can cut into profits. Fixed annuities typically earn at a lower, stable rate. Carefully look at your options when choosing an annuity.




Are Annuities FDIC-insured?
No, annuities are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC), as they are not bank products. However, they are protected by state guaranty associations in the event that the insurance company providing the product goes out of business.


   The Bottom Line  

Before buying a variable annuity, investors should carefully read the prospectus to try to understand the expenses, risks, and formulas for calculating investment gains or losses. Annuities are complicated products, so that may be easier said than done.



Bear in mind that between the numerous fees—such as investment management fees, mortality fees, and administrative fees—and charges for any additional riders, a variable annuity’s expenses can quickly add up. That can adversely affect your returns over the long term, compared with other types of investments.
What Is a Variable Benefit Plan?  

A variable-benefit plan is a type of retirement plan in which the payout changes depending on how well the plan's investments perform. 401(k) plans are one example of a variable benefit.





Key Takeaways

A variable benefit plan refers to a type of qualified plan, such as a retirement account, whose value fluctuates with the market value of its investments.Defined-contribution plans like 401(k)s are a common example of a variable benefit plan.While variable benefit plans can generate greater long-term returns than fixed defined-benefit plans, they also expose account holders to market risk.


   Understanding a Variable Benefit Plan  

Variable-benefit plans, also called defined-contribution plans, allow the plan holder to manage his or her own account. By contrast, a defined-benefit plan provides the plan holder with predetermined payments upon retirement that do not change and which are based on an eligibility formula rather than on investment returns.



Variable-benefit plans shift investment risk from the employer to the employee. It is possible that the employee will end up with less money from a variable-benefit plan if he makes poor investment choices. However, he also has the power to make superior investment choices and end up with better benefits. Therefore, the ability of the employee to make smart investment decisions is critical in variable-benefit plans.


   History of Variable Benefit Plans  

People have been investing in financial markets in order to provide for their retirement for as long as the history of capitalism itself. The American Express Company first offered its employees a pension plan in 1875, establishing the first private pension plan in the United States.



As Americans’ life expectancy rose throughout the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the problem of how to provide for the retirement of members of the growing middle class became of increasing importance. Congress sought to encourage the growth of private pensions by making contributions to such accounts tax-deductible in the 1920s. By 1929, there were 397 private-sector plans extant in the United States and Canada.



The growth of pension plans exploded following World War Two, when unions began to strike in large numbers, demanding the provision of pensions. From the end of World War Two to about 1980, defined-benefit pensions, or a pension in which a worker is guaranteed a predetermined set of benefits until death, were a major form of retirement security for American workers.


  The Pressure of Maximum Returns  

But these sorts of pensions put great pressure on American companies, which were facing increased competition from foreign rivals, and from shareholders who were demanding maximum returns. This led the private sector to rely more on variable-benefit plans, in which the contribution from the company is defined, but the actual payout depends on how the pension investments perform.



Since the early 1980s, workers' access to defined-benefit plans has declined. According to the National Compensation Survey conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in 2020, only 15% of private-sector workers participated in defined-benefit plans. By comparison, around 65% of private-sector workers had access to a defined-contribution plan.
What Is a Variable Cost?  

A variable cost is a corporate expense that changes in proportion to how much a company produces or sells. Variable costs increase or decrease depending on a company's production or sales volume—they rise as production increases and fall as production decreases.



Examples of variable costs include a manufacturing company's costs of raw materials and packaging—or a retail company's credit card transaction fees or shipping expenses, which rise or fall with sales. A variable cost can be contrasted with a fixed cost.





Key Takeaways

A variable cost is an expense that changes in proportion to production output or sales.When production or sales increase, variable costs increase; when production or sales decrease, variable costs decrease.Variable costs stand in contrast to fixed costs, which do not change in proportion to production or sales volume.Variable costs are a central part in determining a product's contribution margin, the metric used to determine a company's break-even or target profit level.Examples of variable costs include raw materials, labor, utilities, commission, or distribution costs. 












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Variable Costs  

The total expenses incurred by any business consist of variable and fixed costs. Variable costs are dependent on production output or sales. The variable cost of production is a constant amount per unit produced. As the volume of production and output increases, variable costs will also increase. Conversely, when fewer products are produced, the variable costs associated with production will consequently decrease.



Examples of variable costs are sales commissions, direct labor costs, cost of raw materials used in production, and utility costs.






Variable costs are usually viewed as short-term costs as they can be adjusted quickly. For example, if a company is having cashflow issues, they may immediately decide to alter production to not incur these costs.


   Formula and Calculation of Variable Costs  

The total variable cost is simply the quantity of output multiplied by the variable cost per unit of output:



Total Variable Cost  =  Total Quantity of Output X Variable Cost Per Unit of Output



The variable cost per unit will vary across profits. In general, it can often be specifically calculated as the sum of the types of variable costs discussed below. Variable costs may need to be allocated across goods if they are incurred in batches (i.e. 100 pounds of raw materials are purchased to manufacture 10,000 finished goods).


   Types of Variable Costs  

Along the manufacturing process, there are specific items that are usually variable costs. For the examples of these variable costs below, consider the manufacturing and distribution processes for a major athletic apparel producer.


  Raw Materials  

Raw materials are the direct goods purchased that are eventually turned into a final product. If the athletic brand doesn't make the shoes, it won't incur the cost of leather, synthetic mesh, canvas, or other raw materials. In general, a company should spend roughly the same amount on raw materials for every unit produced assuming no major differences in manufacturing one unit versus another.


  Direct Labor  

The athletic company also won't incur some types labor if it doesn't produce more output. Some positions may be salaried; whether output is 100,000 units or 0 units, certain employees will receive the same amount of compensation. For others that are tied to an hourly job, putting in direct labor hours results in a higher paycheck.


  Commissions  

Commissions are often a percentage of a sales proceeds that is awarded to a company as additional compensation. If no sales are executed, there is no commission expense. Because commissions rise and fall in line with whatever underlying qualification the salesperson must hit, the expense varies (i.e. is variable) with different activity levels.


  Utilities  

When the manufacturing line turns on equipment and ramps up product, it begins to consume energy. When its time to wrap up product and shut everything down, utilities are often no longer consumed. In this example, utilities usually vary with production. As a company strives to produce more output, it is likely this additional effort will require additional power or energy, resulting in increased variable utility costs.


  Shipping/Freight  

The cost to package or ship a product will only occur if certain activity is performed. Therefore, the cost of shipping a finished good varies (i.e. is variable) depending on the quantity of units shipped. Though there may be fixed cost components to shipping (i.e. an in-house mail distribution network with a personalized weighing and packaging product line), many of the ancillary costs are variable.


   Importance of Variable Cost Analysis  

Variable costing data can be used in a variety of ways to analyze expenses, pricing, and profitability. Variable cost analysis is important for the following reasons:



Variable costs help determine pricing. A company usually strives to competitively price its goods to recover the cost to manufacture the goods. By performing variable cost analysis, a company will better grasp the inputs for its products and what it needs to collect in revenue per unit to make sure its earning money.
Variable costs are an integral part of budgeting and planning. A company may plan to double its output next year in an attempt to scale revenue. To do so, it must be aware that variable costs will also proportionally increase. Any strategic plans relating to growth, contraction, or expansion to new products will likely incur changes to variable costs.
Variable costs determine the break-even point. A company's break-even point is calculated as fixed costs divided contribution margin, and contribution margin is calculated as revenue - variable costs. A company can leverage variable cost analysis to calculate exactly how many items it needs to see to break-even as well as how many units it needs to sell to make a specific amount of money.
Variable costs determine margins and net income. Gross margin, profit margin, and net income calculations are often calculated with a combination of fixed and variable costs. By performing variable cost analysis, a company can easily identify how scaling or decreasing output can impact profit calculations.
Variable costs impact a company's expense structure. Imagine a company wants to rent a piece of equipment. It can choose between paying $1,000 (fixed cost) or $0.05 for every item manufactured. This decision will have a direct impact on the profitability and earning potential company as a company's expense structure determines its leverage.


   Variable Cost vs. Average Variable Cost  

Variable cost and average variable cost may sound similar, but each describe an entirely different value of expenses. While variable cost is usually used to describe the variable cost for a single product, average variable cost often analyzes production over time and compares variable costs to what has been produced. Average variable can be calculated as:



Average Variable Cost = Total Variable Costs / Total Output



Variable cost and average variable cost may not always be equal due to price increase or pricing discounts. Consider the variable cost of a project that has been worked on for years. An employee's hourly wages are a variable cost; however, that employee was promoted last year. The current variable cost will be higher than before; the average variable cost will remain something in between.



Average variable costs is often U-shaped when plotted graphically. Therefore, a company can use average variable costing to analyze the most efficient point of manufacturing by calculating when to shut down production in the short-term. A company may also use this information to shut down a plan if it determines its AVC is higher than its.


   Variable Costs vs. Fixed Costs  

Fixed costs are expenses that remain the same regardless of production output. Whether a firm makes sales or not, it must pay its fixed costs, as these costs are independent of output.



Examples of fixed costs are rent, employee salaries, insurance, and office supplies. A company must still pay its rent for the space it occupies to run its business operations irrespective of the volume of products manufactured and sold. If a business increased production or decreased production, rent will stay exactly the same. Although fixed costs can change over a period of time, the change will not be related to production, and as such, fixed costs are viewed as long-term costs.



There is also a category of costs that falls between fixed and variable costs, known as semi-variable costs (also known as semi-fixed costs or mixed costs). These are costs composed of a mixture of both fixed and variable components. Costs are fixed for a set level of production or consumption and become variable after this production level is exceeded. If no production occurs, a fixed cost is often still incurred.






In general, companies with a high proportion of variable costs relative to fixed costs are considered to be less volatile, as their profits are more dependent on the success of their sales.


   Special Considerations  
  Relevant Range  

The concept of relevant range primarily relates to fixed costs, though variable costs may experience a relevant range of their own. This may hold true for tangible products going into a good as well as labor costs (i.e. it may cost overtime rates if a certain amount of hours are worked). Consider wholesale bulk pricing that prices goods by tiers based on quantity ordered.



For example, raw materials may cost $0.50 per pound for the first 1,000 pounds. However, orders of greater than 1,000 pounds of raw material are charged $0.48. In either situation, the variable cost is the charge for the raw materials (either $0.50 per pound or $0.48 per pound).


  Degree of Leverage  

Variable and fixed costs play into the degree of operating leverage a company has. In short, fixed costs are more risky, generate a greater degree of leverage, and leaves the company with greater upside potential. On the other hand, variable costs are safer, generate less leverage, and leave the company with smaller upside potential.



Consider the example above with a company choosing between renting a piece of equipment for $1,000 or $0.05 per unit produced:



If the company manufacturers just one unit of output, it is $999.95 more favorable to opt for the per-unit price.If the company manufacturers 20,000 units of output, the two options break even.If the company manufacturers 1,000,000 units of output, it is $49,000 more favorable to opt for the fixed price.



The company faces the risk of loss if it produces less than 20,000 units. However, anything above this has limitless potential for yielding benefit for the company. Therefore, leverage rewards the company not choosing variable costs as long as the company can produce enough output.


  Contribution Margin  

Variable costs are a direct input in the calculation of contribution margin, the amount of proceeds a company collects after using sale proceeds to cover variable costs. Every dollar of contribution margin goes directly to paying for fixed costs; once all fixed costs have been paid for, every dollar of contribution margin contributes to profit.



For this reason, variable costs are a required item for companies trying to determine their break-even point. In addition, variable costs are necessary to determine sale targets for a specific profit target.


   Example of a Variable Cost  

Let’s assume that it costs a bakery $15 to make a cake—$5 for raw materials such as sugar, milk, and flour, and $10 for the direct labor involved in making one cake. The table below shows how the variable costs change as the number of cakes baked vary.













  
 1 cake
 2 cakes
 7 cakes
 10 cakes
 0 cakes


 Cost of sugar, flour, butter, and milk
 $5
 $10
 $35
 $50
 $0


 Direct labor
 $10
 $20
 $70
 $100
 $0


 Total variable cost
 $15
 $30
 $105
 $150
 $0






As the production output of cakes increases, the bakery’s variable costs also increase. When the bakery does not bake any cake, its variable costs drop to zero.



Fixed costs and variable costs comprise the total cost. Total cost is a determinant of a company’s profits, which is calculated as:


















Profits


=


S


a


l


e


s


−


T


o


t


a


l


 


C


o


s


t


s







\begin{aligned} &\text{Profits} = Sales - Total~Costs\\ \end{aligned}


​Profits=Sales−Total Costs​



A company can increase its profits by decreasing its total costs. Since fixed costs are more challenging to bring down (for example, reducing rent may entail the company moving to a cheaper location), most businesses seek to reduce their variable costs. Decreasing costs usually means decreasing variable costs.



If the bakery sells each cake for $35, its gross profit per cake will be $35 - $15 = $20. To calculate the net profit, the fixed costs have to be subtracted from the gross profit. Assuming the bakery incurs monthly fixed costs of $900, which includes utilities, rent, and insurance, its monthly profit will look like this:













Number Sold
Total Variable Cost
Total Fixed Cost
Total Cost
Sales
Profit


20 Cakes
$300
$900
$1,200
$700
$(500)


45 Cakes
$675
$900
$1,575
$1,575
$0


50 Cakes
$750
$900
$1,650
$1,750
$100


100 Cakes
$1,500
$900
$2,400
$3,500
$1,100






A business incurs a loss when fixed costs are higher than gross profits. In the bakery’s case, it has gross profits of $700 - $300 = $400 when it sells only 20 cakes a month. Since its fixed cost of $900 is higher than $400, it would lose $500 in sales. The break-even point occurs when fixed costs equal the gross margin, resulting in no profits or loss. In this case, when the bakery sells 45 cakes for total variable costs of $675, it breaks even.



A company that seeks to increase its profit by decreasing variable costs may need to cut down on fluctuating costs for raw materials, direct labor, and advertising. However, the cost cut should not affect product or service quality as this would have an adverse effect on sales. By reducing its variable costs, a business increases its gross profit margin or contribution margin.



The contribution margin allows management to determine how much revenue and profit can be earned from each unit of product sold. The contribution margin is calculated as:


















Contribution Margin


=




G


r


o


s


s


 


P


r


o


f


i


t




S


a


l


e


s




=




(


S


a


l


e


s


−


V


C


)




S


a


l


e


s


















where:
















V


C


=


Variable Costs







\begin{aligned} &\text{Contribution~Margin} = \dfrac{Gross~Profit}{Sales}=\dfrac{ (Sales-VC)}{Sales}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&VC = \text{Variable Costs}\\ \end{aligned}


​Contribution Margin=SalesGross Profit​=Sales(Sales−VC)​where:VC=Variable Costs​



The contribution margin for the bakery is ($35 - $15) / $35 = 0.5714, or 57.14%. If the bakery reduces its variable costs to $10, its contribution margin will increase to ($35 - $10) / $35 = 71.43%. Profits increase when the contribution margin increases. If the bakery reduces its variable cost by $5, it would earn $0.71 for every one dollar in sales.




What Are Some Examples of Variable Costs?
Common examples of variable costs include costs of goods sold (COGS), raw materials and inputs to production, packaging, wages, and commissions, and certain utilities (for example, electricity or gas that increases with production capacity).




How Do Fixed Costs Differ From Variable Costs?
Variable costs are directly related to the cost of production of goods or services, while fixed costs do not vary with the level of production. Variable costs are commonly designated as COGS, whereas fixed costs are not usually included in COGS. Fluctuations in sales and production levels can affect variable costs if factors such as sales commissions are included in per-unit production costs. Meanwhile, fixed costs must still be paid even if production slows down significantly.




How Can Variable Costs Impact Growth and Profitability?
If companies ramp up production to meet demand, their variable costs will increase as well. If these costs increase at a rate that exceeds the profits generated from new units produced, it may not make sense to expand. A company in such a case will need to evaluate why it cannot achieve economies of scale. In economies of scale, variable costs as a percentage of overall cost per unit decrease as the scale of production ramps up.




Is Marginal Cost the Same As Variable Cost?
No. Marginal cost refers to how much it costs to produce one additional unit. The marginal cost will take into account the total cost of production, including both fixed and variable costs. Since fixed costs are static, however, the weight of fixed costs will decline as production scales up.




What Is the Formula for Total Variable Cost?
Because variable costs scale alongside, every unit of output will theoretically have the same amount of variable costs. Therefore, total variable costs can be calculated by multiplying the total quantity of output by the unit variable cost.


   The Bottom Line  

In a manufacturing process, there are different types of costs. One of those cost profiles is a variable cost that only increases if the quantity of output also increases. While a fixed cost remains the same over a relevant range, a variable cost usually changes with every incremental unit produced. Though this cost structure protects a company in the event demand for their good decreases, it limits the update profit potential the company could have received with a more fixed-cost focused strategy.
What Is Variable Cost-Plus Pricing?  

Variable cost-plus pricing is a pricing method whereby the selling price is established by adding a markup to total variable costs. The expectation is that the markup will contribute to meeting all or a part of the fixed costs and yield some level of profit. Variable cost-plus pricing is particularly useful in competitive scenarios, such as contract bidding, but it is not suitable in situations where fixed costs are a major component of total costs.





Key Takeaways

Variable cost-plus pricing adds a markup to the variable costs to include a profit margin that covers both the fixed and variable costs.Variable cost-plus pricing is particularly useful for contract bidding where the fixed costs are stable.This pricing method might also make sense for companies that can produce more units without a dramatic effect on the fixed costs.Variable cost-plus pricing does not account for market factors such as demand or customer perceptions of value.Variable cost-plus pricing can also yield pricing inefficiencies if the company's variable costs are low.


   How Variable Cost-Plus Pricing Works  

Variable costs include direct labor, direct materials, and other expenses that change in proportion to production output. A firm employing the variable cost-plus pricing method would first calculate the variable costs per unit, then add a mark-up to cover fixed costs per unit and generate a targeted profit margin.



For example, assume that total variable costs for manufacturing one unit of a product are $10. The firm estimates that fixed costs per unit are $4. To cover the fixed costs and leave a profit per unit of $1, the firm would price the unit at $15.






This type of pricing method is purely inward-looking. It does not incorporate benchmarking with competitors' prices or consider how the market views the price of an item.


   When to Use Variable Cost-Plus Pricing  

This method of pricing can be suitable for a company when a high proportion of total costs are variable. A company can be confident that its markup will cover fixed costs per unit. If the ratio of variable costs to fixed costs is low, meaning that there are considerable fixed costs that go up as more units are produced, the pricing of a product may end up being inaccurate and unsustainable for the company to make a profit.



Variable cost-plus pricing may also be suitable for companies that have excess capacity. In other words, a company that would not incur additional fixed costs per unit by incrementally increasing production. Variable costs, in this case, would compose most of the total costs (e.g., no additional factory space would need to be rented for extra production), and adding a markup on the variable costs would provide a profit margin.



The major shortcoming of this pricing method is that it fails to take into account how the market views the product in terms of value or the prices of similar products sold by competitors.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Variable Cost-Plus Pricing  

The main advantage of variable cost-plus pricing is its simplicity: it allows sellers to easily set a price that covers their costs while allowing a reasonable margin for profit. It also makes it easy to set contracts with suppliers, who usually prefer to lock in a price that locks in set profits over a model that is less predictable. It also makes it easier to justify price increases to consumers, since a rise in prices can simply be attributed to rising production costs.






Variable cost-plus pricing is not suitable for a company that has significant fixed costs or fixed costs that increase if more units are produced; any markup on the variable costs on top of the fixed costs per unit might result in an unsustainable price for the product.



On the other hand, the variable cost-plus pricing model does not factor in market conditions, and may sometimes leave money on the table. For example, if a particular product line is in especially high demand among consumers, the producers could earn greater profits by raising the prices on those products.



Likewise, the model does not account for competing products. In some cases, a company could increase its profit margins, if its products are superior to the competitors. Conversely, a company can sometimes increase revenues by lowering prices, if doing so undercuts the prices of their competitors.




Pros & Cons of Variable Cost-Plus Pricing

Pros

Comparatively simple way to cover the cost of producing goods
Allows suppliers to lock-in prices that cover costs
Facilitates contract negotiation with a comparatively simple means of calculating prices



Cons

Does not account for market demand, which can sometimes justify higher pricing
Does not account for competitors' goods, which can adversely affect sales
Can result in inefficient pricing if the company's variable costs are comparatively low





   Variable Cost-Plus Pricing vs. Cost-Plus Pricing  

Variable cost-plus pricing is distinct from cost-plus pricing, a more traditional model that sets costs based on the total cost of producing that good. Using cost-plus pricing, prices are set by taking the total cost of production and adding a markup. Variable cost-plus pricing adds a markup only to the variable costs, with the assumption that the markup will be sufficient to cover the fixed costs.



Cost-plus pricing has been criticized by some management specialists because it does not adequately incentivize cost containment and improvements in efficiency. When prices are based on total costs, the company earns more revenue by bloating their fixed costs than they do by reducing those inefficiencies.




What Is Rigid Cost-Plus Pricing?
Rigid cost-plus pricing, or simply cost-plus pricing, is a simple pricing model based solely on the total cost of producing and selling a product. This model computes the per-unit costs of delivering a product—including production, transportation, sales, and other services–and adds a fixed markup to arrive at the final price.




How Do You Calculate Variable Cost-Plus Pricing?
The variable cost-plus pricing method is calculated by adding a markup to the per-unit costs of producing each additional good. For example, if the materials, labor, and transportation for each bottle of Pepsi add up to $1.00, the total price might be marked as $1.20. Although this model does not include fixed costs, such as facilities and utilities, it is assumed that the markup is sufficiently high to cover these costs.




What Are Examples of Variable Costs?
Variable costs are the production costs that increase when more units of a good are produced. Raw materials, and labor, are examples of variable costs, because producing more units of a good requires more raw materials and labor. Fixed costs are those costs that do not change significantly when production is ramped up–for example, the costs of the facilities and machinery used to produce the good.




What Is Variable Cost Transfer Pricing?
Transfer pricing is the price for sales between entities that are related to one another, such as different departments of the same company, or between a parent company and its subsidiary. Although these bodies may be related, they transact at arm's length, so transfer prices rarely stray very far from market prices.As with market pricing, transfer prices can be determined through a variety of methods, including cost-based or profit-seeking pricing models. Variable cost transfer pricing refers to a price where the purchaser pays the variable costs of production, without a markup.
What Is the Variable Cost Ratio?  

The variable cost ratio is a calculation of the costs of increasing production in comparison to the greater revenues that will result from the increase. An estimate of the variable cost ratio allows a company to aim for the optimal balance between increased revenues and increased costs of production.





Key Takeaways

The variable cost ratio indicates the additional costs that are incurred in increasing production.A relatively high ratio indicates a company is more likely to make a profit on relatively low sales because it has a relatively high contribution margin to apply toward its fixed costs.A relatively low ratio indicates a company is less likely to make a profit on relatively low sales because it has a relatively low contribution margin to apply toward its fixed costs.



The production of goods involves both fixed costs and variable costs:



In general, increasing production is a more efficient use of fixed costs, such as the lease of a building. If producing 1,000 things costs the same fixed costs as producing 100 things, the fixed cost per thing declines as production is increased.Variable costs, such as raw materials purchases, rise with an increase in production. You can't make 1,000 gold-plated things for the same cost as 100 gold-plated things. The variable cost ratio indicates when the variable costs of increasing production exceed the benefits.


   Understanding Variable Cost Ratio  
  The Formula for the Variable Cost Ratio Is  

﻿















Variable Cost Ratio


=




Variable Costs




Net Sales










\begin{aligned} &\text{Variable Cost Ratio} = \frac{ \text{Variable Costs} }{ \text {Net Sales} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Variable Cost Ratio=Net SalesVariable Costs​​﻿



As an alternative, the ratio can be calculated as 1 - contribution margin.



The result indicates whether a company is achieving, or maintaining, the desirable balance at which revenues are rising faster than expenses.



The variable cost ratio quantifies the relationship between a company's sales and the specific costs of production associated with those revenues. It is a useful evaluation metric for a company's management in determining necessary break-even or minimum profit margins, making profit projections, and identifying the optimal sales price for its products.


  High Fixed Costs Mean a Lower Ratio  

Companies with high fixed costs must earn a substantial amount of revenue to cover these costs and remain in business. For this type of company, it helps to have a low variable cost ratio. On the flip side, companies with low fixed costs do not have to earn a substantial amount of revenue to cover them and remain in business. This type of company can afford to operate with a higher variable cost ratio.



The variable cost calculation can be done on a per-unit basis, such as a $10 variable cost for one unit with a sales price of $100, giving a variable cost ratio of 0.1, or 10%. Or, it can be done by using totals over a given time period, such as total monthly variable costs of $1,000 with total monthly revenues of $10,000, also rendering a variable cost ratio of 0.1, or 10%.


   Variable Costs and Fixed Costs  

The variable cost ratio and its usefulness are easily understood once the basic concepts of variable costs and fixed expenses, and their relationship to revenues and general profitability, are understood.



Variable costs are variable in the sense that they fluctuate in relation to the level of production. Examples are the costs of raw material, packaging, and shipping. These costs increase as production increases and decline when production declines.


  Fixed Expenses Don't Vary with Volume  

Fixed expenses are general overhead or operational costs that are fixed in the sense they remain relatively unchanged regardless of levels of production. Examples of fixed expenses include facility rental or mortgage costs and executive salaries. Fixed expenses only change significantly as a result of decisions and actions by management.



The contribution margin is the difference, expressed as a percentage, between total sales revenue and total variable costs.



The term contribution margin refers to the fact that this number indicates how much revenue is left over to "contribute" toward fixed costs and potential profit.
Definition of Variable Coupon Renewable Note (VCR)  

A variable coupon renewable note (VCR) is a renewable fixed income security with variable coupon rates that are periodically reset. The renewable note is a type of debt security with a weekly maturity. The principal of this security is reinvested automatically at new interest rates every week it matures.





Key Takeaways

Variable coupon renewable note matures every week, with the principal reinvested at a new interest rate that is reset at a fixed spread over a reference rate. Typically, this reference rate is the 91-day Treasury bill rate.The note is reinvested automatically and continuously until the owner requests otherwise.


   Understanding Variable Coupon Renewable Note (VCR)  

A variable coupon renewable note (VCR) is a debt security that matures every week, with the principal reinvested at a new interest rate that is reset at a fixed spread over a reference rate.



Usually, the coupon is set on a weekly basis at a fixed spread over the Treasury bill rate, specifically the 91-day T-bill. The security is reinvested automatically and continuously, until the owner of the security requests that the security is to be no longer reinvested. T-bills, which the initial rate of the VCR is linked to, are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government and have a maturity of one year or less.﻿﻿



The coupon on a VCR note is payable quarterly, renewing continuously at the quarterly intervals. So, every 91 days, the maturity of the note extends another 91 days. It has an embedded put option that allows the note holder to exercise the put, or "put" the notes to the issuer at par on coupon dates. This means that an issuer served with a put notice is obligated to buy back the note from the debt holder, but at a lower spread to the reference rate.



VCR notes are somewhat different from variable rate renewable notes (VRR). While coupon rates on VCRs vary weekly, rates on VRRs vary monthly. In addition, the coupon rate on variable rate renewable notes equals a fixed spread over the 1-month commercial paper rate.



In effect, variable rate renewable notes will bear interest at a specified rate that will be reset periodically based on the 1-month commercial paper rate and any spread and/or spread multiplier, subject to the minimum interest rate and the maximum interest rate, if any.
What Is a Variable Death Benefit?  

Variable death benefit refers to the amount paid to a decedent's beneficiary that is based on the performance of an investment account within a variable universal life insurance policy, a financial product that functions as both insurance and an investment. This variable amount is in addition to a guaranteed death benefit, which is constant.



A variable universal life policyholder can choose among several investment options their insurer offers, including investments in equity and fixed-income mutual funds. The variable amount, or the policy's cash value, along with guaranteed death benefit, known as its face value, together form the total death benefit.


   Understanding Variable Death Benefit  

A variable death benefit is one of three main options available with variable universal life insurance policies, the others being a level death benefit and a return of premium benefit. Each of these three benefit types is not taxable to the beneficiary, and if the policyholder borrows against the policy, the death benefit lowers.﻿﻿



The variable death benefit is also sometimes called an increasing benefit. This is somewhat of a misnomer because the cash value can either increase or decrease depending on investment performance.





Key Takeaways

A variable death benefit is the amount in an investment account paid to a decedent's beneficiary from a variable life insurance policy.The investment account or cash value account within a variable life insurance policy is used to invest in stocks or equity mutual funds for returns.While investment accounts hold the promise of greater-than-average returns, their returns are not always positive and depend on the state of equity markets.Variable life insurance policies have associated management fees that may eat into the overall amount for the variable death benefit.


   Pros and Cons of Variable Death Benefit  

Typically, investors are offered options of a set of securities and funds associated with the life insurance company. These options can range from stocks to bonds to money market funds and each of them has associated management and administrative fees. Variable life insurance policies transfer a portion of the premium paid to cash value accounts that are used to invest in these equity instruments.



Among variable universal life policies, a variable death benefit that invests mainly in stocks or equity mutual funds may be attractive to younger investors who are seeking to also use the insurance as a long-term investment vehicle. For older investors, bonds may be more appropriate.



Of note, most variable death benefits include the ability to change the underlying investments over time. Returns are not capped, so policyholders receive the full return of the underlying investment, minus fees.



A variable death benefit can cost less over time than a return of premium benefit. They also offer tax benefits because the gains accruing from investments are eligible for deferred tax as long as they remain within the account until the death benefit is claimed.



However, a variable death benefit typically is more expensive than a level death benefit and may include more embedded costs overall. In general, the higher the death benefit, the greater the premiums. There is also the danger that your policy may lapse if you do not maintain sufficient funds in your account to cover the administrative costs of such policies.



These cost differences can be important considerations, as the total premiums associated with the three main types of variable universal life benefits can differ by thousands of dollars over the life of a policy.



Consumers may also want to carefully evaluate the pros and cons of variable universal life in the first place. This type of insurance has attractive features to some investors, in that coverage does not expire as long as policyholders keep making the payments. Also, as the name suggests, variable universal life offers flexible premiums. That said, the total cost of variable universal life is usually notably higher than term insurance, which does not offer an investment component and, of course, covers only a specific span of time. While this is seemingly a drawback, it also is possible to simply buy term at the lower price and invest the rest.


   Example of Variable Benefit  

Shinzo has invested in a variable life insurance policy with an annual premium payment of $50,000. He specifies that he wants $30,000 of that amount invested in an equity mutual fund and the remaining in a bond fund. In the next year, the mutual fund and bond fund provide returns of 5% bringing the total value of his account to $32,500. The annual administrative fee for his account is $2,000. This means that his beneficiary is eligible for a total death benefit of $30,500 at the end of that year.
What Is a Variable Interest Entity (VIE)?  

A variable interest entity (VIE) refers to a legal business structure in which an investor has a controlling interest despite not having a majority of voting rights. This is because the controlling interest is arranged via a contractual relationship rather than direct ownership. Characteristics include a structure where equity investors do not have sufficient resources to support the ongoing operating needs of the business. In most cases, the VIE is used to protect the business from creditors or legal action.



A business that is the primary beneficiary of a VIE must disclose the holdings of that entity as part of its consolidated balance sheet.





Key Takeaways

A variable interest entity (VIE) refers to a legal business structure in which an investor has a controlling interest despite not having a majority of voting rights.Investors in VIEs do not participate in residual gains or losses.Variable interest entities are often established as special purpose vehicles (SPVs) to passively hold financial assets or to actively conduct research and development.Under the Federal securities laws, public companies have to disclose their relationships to VIEs when they file their 10-K forms.


   How a Variable Interest Entity (VIE) Works  

Variable interest entities (VIEs) are often established as special purpose vehicles (SPVs) to passively hold financial assets or to actively conduct research and development. For example, a company may establish a VIE to finance a project without putting the whole enterprise at risk. However, just as other SPVs have been misused in the past, these structures are frequently used to keep securitized assets off corporate balance sheets.



VIEs are set up with a unique structure where investors do not have a direct ownership stake in the entity but rather have special contracts, which specify the terms & rules and pledge a percentage of profits. Therefore, in a VIE, the investor does not participate in residual profits or losses that usually come with ownership. The contracts don't provide for voting rights either.



Reforms in the wake of the global financial crisis were meant to do away with some of the asset-backed security industry’s pre-crisis practices. But thanks to lobbying efforts by the banks, which had warned of dire consequences should they have to bring subprime mortgage-backed securities back onto their books, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) relaxed the rules for VIEs, enabling banks to continue stashing loans in off-balance-sheet entities.


   Regulating VIEs  

Under the Federal securities laws, public companies have to disclose their relationships to VIEs when they file their 10-K forms. FASB Interpretation Number 46, which is the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s interpretation of the Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) 51, outlines the accounting rules that corporations must follow with respect to VIEs. Several revisions to the original 2003 FASB Rule 46 have taken place, with the most recent occurring in 2009 in response to the 2008 financial crisis.



In particular, many of these regulations are set out to determine who the actual beneficiary of a VIE is in order to improve transparency and financial reporting. According to the most recent standards, the beneficiary firm would meet both of the following:



It has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performanceIt has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. 



Additionally, a beneficiary firm is required to assess whether it has an implicit financial responsibility to ensure that a VIE operates as designed when determining whether it has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance.


   Special Considerations  

If a company is the primary beneficiary of such an entity—namely has a majority interest in the VIE—then the holdings of that entity must be disclosed on the company's consolidated balance sheet. But if a company is not the primary beneficiary, consolidation is not required.



However, companies are required to disclose information concerning VIEs in which they have a significant interest. This disclosure includes how the entity operates, how much and what kind of financial support it receives, contractual commitments, as well as the potential losses the VIE could incur.




What Are Examples of Variable Interest Entities (VIEs)?
VIEs can come in many forms and will be organized depending on the needs of the beneficiary company. Some examples may include operating leases, subcontracting arrangements, and offshore companies, among others.




How Does a VIE Work?
VIEs are legally contractual obligations between a beneficiary firm and some third-party. Because the nature of the association between the two entities is contractual, is it not considered to be a form of ownership. This allows the VIE structure to circumvent various rules and regulations around reporting and in some cases, taxation.




What Are Chinese VIEs in the U.S.?
More than 100 Hong Kong- and Chinese-based corporations are structured as VIEs in the United States. These include well-known companies like Alibaba, Tencent, Baidu, JD, and NetEase, among others. The VIE structure allows these firms to get around Chinese regulations that prevent foreign capital investments in certain types of Chinese companies (e.g., those involved in telecommunications or media).
What Is a Variable Interest Rate?  

A variable interest rate (sometimes called an “adjustable” or a “floating” rate) is an interest rate on a loan or security that fluctuates over time because it is based on an underlying benchmark interest rate or index that changes periodically.



The obvious advantage of a variable interest rate is that if the underlying interest rate or index declines, the borrower’s interest payments also fall. Conversely, if the underlying index rises, interest payments increase. Unlike variable interest rates, fixed interest rates do not fluctuate.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A variable interest rate fluctuates over time because it is based on an underlying benchmark interest rate or index that changes periodically with the market.The underlying benchmark interest rate or index for a variable interest rate depends on the type of loan or security, but it is frequently linked to the LIBOR or the federal funds rate.Variable interest rates can be found in mortgages, credit cards, corporate bonds, derivatives, and other securities or loans.


   Understanding Variable Interest Rates  

A variable interest rate is a rate that moves up and down with the rest of the market or along with an index. The underlying benchmark interest rate or index for a variable interest rate depends on the type of loan or security, but it is often associated with either the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or the federal funds rate.



Variable interest rates for mortgages, automobiles, and credit cards may be based on a benchmark rate, such as the prime rate in a country. Banks and financial institutions charge consumers a spread over this benchmark rate, with the spread depending on several factors, such as the type of asset and the consumer’s credit rating. Thus, a variable rate may bill itself as “the LIBOR plus 200 basis points” (plus 2%).﻿﻿



Residential mortgages, for instance, can be obtained with fixed interest rates, which are static and cannot change for the duration of the mortgage agreement, or with a floating or adjustable interest rate, which is variable and changes periodically with the market. Variable interest rates can also be found in credit cards, corporate bond issues, swap contracts, and other securities.﻿﻿






Due to recent scandals and questions around its validity as a benchmark rate, LIBOR is being phased out. According to the Federal Reserve and regulators in the U.K., LIBOR will be phased out by June 30, 2023, and will be replaced by the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). As part of this phase-out, LIBOR one-week and two-month USD LIBOR rates will no longer be published after December 31, 2021.﻿﻿ 


   Variable-Interest-Rate Credit Cards  

Variable-interest-rate credit cards have an annual percentage rate (APR) tied to a particular index, such as the prime rate. The prime rate most commonly changes when the Federal Reserve adjusts the federal funds rate, resulting in a change in the rate of the associated credit card. The rates on variable-interest-rate credit cards can change without advance notice to the cardholder.﻿﻿






Variable-interest-rate credit cards can change rates without telling their customers.



Within the “terms and conditions” document associated with the credit card, the interest rate is most commonly expressed as the prime rate plus a particular percentage, with the listed percentage being tied to the creditworthiness of the cardholder.﻿﻿ An example of the format is the prime rate plus 11.9%.


   Variable-Interest-Rate Loans and Mortgages  

Variable-interest-rate loans function similarly to credit cards except for the payment schedule. While a credit card is considered a revolving line of credit, most loans are installment loans, with a specified number of payments leading to the loan being paid off by a particular date. As interest rates vary, the required payment will go up or down according to the change in rate and the number of payments remaining before completion.



When a mortgage has a variable interest rate, it is more commonly referred to as an adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM). Many ARMs start with a low fixed interest rate for the first few years of the loan, only adjusting after that period has expired. Common fixed-interest-rate periods on an ARM are three, five, or seven years, expressed as a 3/1, 5/1, or 7/1 ARM, respectively. There are also usually adjustment “caps” that put a limit on how much the interest rate can go up or down when it adjusts.﻿﻿ You can use an online calculator to get an estimate of current interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgages.



In most cases, ARMs have rates that adjust based on a preset margin and a major mortgage index, such as the LIBOR, the 11th District Cost of Funds Index (COFI), or the Monthly Treasury Average Index (MTA Index). If, for example, someone takes out an ARM with a 2% margin based on the LIBOR, and the LIBOR is at 3% when the mortgage’s rate adjusts, the rate resets at 5% (the margin plus the index).


   Variable-Interest-Rate Bonds and Securities  

For variable-interest-rate bonds, the benchmark rate may be the LIBOR.﻿﻿ Some variable-rate bonds also use the five-year, 10-year, or 30-year U.S. Treasury bond yield as the benchmark interest rate, offering a coupon rate that is set at a certain spread above the yield on U.S. Treasuries.



Fixed-income derivatives also can carry variable rates. An interest rate swap, for example, is a forward contract in which one stream of future interest payments is exchanged for another based on a specified principal amount. Interest rate swaps usually involve the exchange of a fixed interest rate for a floating rate, or vice versa, to reduce or increase exposure to fluctuations in interest rates—or to obtain a marginally lower interest rate than would have been possible without the swap.﻿﻿ A swap can also involve the exchange of one type of floating rate for another, which is called a basis swap.


   Pros and Cons of Variable Interest Rates  



Pros

Variable interest rates are generally lower than fixed interest rates.
If interest rates go down, the borrower will benefit.
If interest rates go up, the lender will benefit.



Cons

Variable interest rates can go up to the point where the borrower may have difficulty paying the loan.
The unpredictability of variable interest rates makes it harder for a borrower to budget.
It also makes it harder for a lender to predict future cash flows.
What Is Variable Life Insurance?  

Variable life insurance is a permanent life insurance product with separate accounts comprised of various instruments and investment funds, such as stocks, bonds, equity funds, money market funds, and bond funds.





Key Takeaways

Variable life insurance is a permanent life insurance product.This product contains separate accounts comprised of various instruments and investment funds.Variable policies are considered securities contracts because of investment risks.Variable life insurance is often more expensive than other life insurance products, like term life. 


   How Variable Life Insurance Works  

In some ways, variable life insurance can be described as a form of securities. Why? Because of investment risks, variable policies are considered securities contracts. They are regulated under the federal securities laws. Following the federal regulations, sales professionals must provide a prospectus of available investment products to potential buyers.  



Variable life insurance policies have specific tax benefits, such as the tax-deferred accumulation of earnings. Provided the policy remains in force, policyholders may access the cash value via a tax-free loan. However, unpaid loans, including principal and interest, reduce the death benefit. Additionally, interest or earnings included in partial and full surrenders of the policy are taxable at the time of distribution.


   Variable Life Insurance Advantages  

An attractive feature of the variable life insurance product is its flexibility regarding premium remittance and cash value accumulation. Premiums are not fixed, as with traditional whole life insurance or term insurance policies. Within limits, policyholders may adjust their premium payments based on their needs and investment goals.






Loan interest may become taxable upon surrender of the policy.



For example, if the policyholder remits a premium less than what is needed to sustain the policy, the accumulated cash value compensates for the difference. Although variable life insurance offers this flexibility, it is essential to understand that long-term remittance of reduced premiums can compromise the cash value and the overall status of the policy. Alternatively, policyholders may remit greater premium payments to increase their cash value and investment holdings. 



Unlike whole life insurance, the death benefit is linked to the performance of the separate account funds. A positive aggregate performance could offer increased financial protection to the beneficiary upon the death of the insured.



In addition to the policy's flexibility, the potential for significant investment earnings is another attractive feature. Many policies offer a wide array of investment options ranging from a conservative approach to an aggressive strategy, to suit the needs of most investors.



As an added bonus, a few of the best life insurance companies, such as Prudential and New York Life, offer variable life insurance plans.


   Variable Life Insurance Disadvantages  

Compared to other life insurance policies, variable life insurance is typically more expensive. Premiums paid help cover administrative fees and the management of the plan's investments. The policyholder may need to increase payments to keep the policy active or to maintain a specific death benefit according to the performance of investment products and the premiums remitted.



As a proactive measure, some policyholders submit premiums exceeding the cost of the insurance policy to ensure the guarantees of their policies. Additionally, the policyholder solely assumes all investment risks. The insurer offers no guarantees of performance nor protects against investment losses. The policyholder must exercise due diligence by remaining educated about investments and attentive to the separate account performance. 



Like most life insurance policies, individuals are required to undergo full medical underwriting to obtain a variable life insurance policy. Those people with compromised health or those who have other unfavorable underwriting factors may not qualify for coverage or may realize higher premiums.




How is variable life insurance closer to a security than insurance policy?
It has separate accounts comprised of different instruments and investment funds, such as stocks, bonds, equity funds, money market funds, and bond funds. Because of investment risks, variable policies are considered securities contracts. They are regulated under the federal securities laws. Following the federal regulations, sales professionals must provide a prospectus of available investment products to potential buyers.  




What's a main advantage of the variable life insurance policy?
The policy owner chooses how to invest their cash value. Many policies offer a wide array of investment options ranging from a conservative approach to an aggressive strategy, to suit the needs of most investors. This might mean returns that surpass those of other insurance policies.
What Is Variable Overhead?  

Variable overhead is a term used to describe the fluctuating manufacturing costs associated with operating businesses. As production output increases or decreases, variable overhead expenses move in kind. Variable overhead differs from the general overhead expenditures associated with administrative tasks and other functions that have fixed budgetary requirements.



Holding a firm grasp on variable overhead is useful in helping businesses correctly set their future product prices, in order to avoid overspending, which can cannibalize profit margins.





Key Takeaways

Variable overhead are the costs of operating a firm that fluctuate with the level of business or manufacturing activity.As production output increases or decreases, variable overhead moves in tandem.Examples of variable overhead include production supplies, energy costs to run production lines, and wages for those handling and shipping the product.


   Understanding Variable Overhead Costs  

For companies to operate continuously, they need to spend money on producing and selling their goods and services. The overall operation costs—managers, sales staff, marketing staff for the production facilities as well as the corporate office—are known as overhead.



There are two types of overhead costs, fixed and variable. Fixed overhead doesn't change with increases in levels of production. Examples include:



Mortgage or rent for buildings such as a headquarters officeSalaries for administrative staff, managers, and supervisorsTaxes and insurance



Variable overhead, as alluded to earlier, fluctuates according to levels of production. It may be tougher to pin down and keep within a budget.






The key difference between variable and fixed overhead costs is that if production stopped for a period, there would be no variable overhead while fixed overhead remains.


   Variable Overhead Costs  

Examples of variable overhead include:



Production suppliesUtilities to run equipment and the facilityWages for those handling and shipping the productRaw materialsSales commissions for workers 



Variable overhead costs can include pay for workers added when production is increased. Extra hours paid for production increases would be a variable cost.



Costs of utilities for the equipment—electric power, gas, and water—tend to fluctuate depending on production output, the rollout of new products, manufacturing cycles for existing products, and seasonal patterns. Additional factors that may be included in variable overhead expenses are materials and equipment maintenance.


   Variable Overhead and Pricing  

Manufacturers must include variable overhead expenses to calculate the total cost of production at current levels, as well as the total overhead required to increase manufacturing output in the future. The calculations are applied to determine the minimum price levels for products to ensure profitability.



A manufacturing facility's monthly expense for electricity, for example, will vary depending on production output. If shifts were added to meet product demand, the facility and equipment would undoubtedly use more electricity. As a result, the variable overhead expenses must be included in the calculation of the cost per unit to ensure accurate pricing.



Although increasing production usually boosts variable overhead, efficiencies can occur as output increases. Also, price discounts on larger orders of raw materials—due to the ramp-up in production—can lower the direct cost per unit.



A company that has production runs of 10,000 units and a cost per unit of $1, might see a decline in the direct cost to 75 cents if the manufacturing rate is increased to 30,000 units. If the manufacturer maintains selling prices at the existing level, the cost reduction of 25 cents per unit represents $2,500 in savings on each production run.



In this example, as long as the total increase in indirect costs such as utilities and supplemental labor is less than $2,500, the company can maintain its prices, increase sales, and expand its profit margin.


   Example of Variable Overhead  

Let's say, for example, a mobile phone manufacturer has total variable overhead costs of $20,000 when producing 10,000 phones per month. As a result, the variable cost per unit would be $2 ($20,000/10,000 units). 



Let's say the company increases its sales of phones, and in the following month, the company must produce 15,000 phones. At $2 per unit, the total variable overhead costs increased to $30,000 for the month.




What does overhead mean?
Overhead refers to the costs and expenses associated with production, but which are not directly related to that production itself. For instance, paying utilities, rent, administrator salaries, supplies, raw materials, etc.




What is fixed vs. variable overhead?`
Fixed overhead costs are stable regardless of how much is being produced. For instance, rent and insurance on a factory building will be the same regardless if the factory is churning out a lot or a little in terms of quantity. Variable overhead, however, will increase along with the amount produced, such as raw materials or electricity.




Are salaries or wages variable overhead costs?
It depends. Usual pay is an operating cost and not an overhead cost. If, however, a company must pay overtime or extra hours for workers as production is ramped up, it may be included as a variable cost.
What Is Variable Overhead Efficiency Variance  

Variable overhead efficiency variance refers to the difference between the true time it takes to manufacture a product and the time budgeted for it, as well as the impact of that difference. It arises from variance in productive efficiency.



For example, the number of labor hours taken to manufacture a certain amount of product may differ significantly from the standard or budgeted number of hours. Variable overhead efficiency variance is one of the two components of total variable overhead variance, the other being variable overhead spending variance.


   Understanding Variable Overhead Efficiency Variance  

In numerical terms, variable overhead efficiency variance is defined as:



﻿















VOEV


=


(


ALH


−


BLH


)


×


Hourly Rate
















where:
















VOEV


=


Variable overhead efficiency variance
















ALH


=


Actual labor hours
















BLH


=


Budgeted labor hours
















Hourly Rate


=


Rate for standard variable overhead








\begin{aligned} &\text{VOEV} = ( \text{ALH} - \text{BLH} ) \times \text{Hourly Rate} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{VOEV} = \text{Variable overhead efficiency variance} \\ &\text{ALH} = \text{Actual labor hours} \\ &\text{BLH} = \text{Budgeted labor hours} \\ &\text{Hourly Rate} = \text{Rate for standard variable overhead} \\ \end{aligned}


​VOEV=(ALH−BLH)×Hourly Ratewhere:VOEV=Variable overhead efficiency varianceALH=Actual labor hoursBLH=Budgeted labor hoursHourly Rate=Rate for standard variable overhead​﻿



The hourly rate in this formula includes such indirect labor costs as shop foreman and security. If actual labor hours are less than the budgeted or standard amount, the variable overhead efficiency variance is favorable; if actual labor hours are more than the budgeted or standard amount, the variance is unfavorable.


   Example of Variable Overhead Efficiency Variance  

Consider an example of a widget-manufacturing plant, where the rate for standard variable overhead to account for indirect labor costs is estimated at $20 per hour. Assume that the standard number of hours required to manufacture 1,000 widgets is 2,000 hours. However, the company actually took 2,200 hours to manufacture 1,000 widgets. In this case, the unfavorable variable overhead efficiency variance is (2,200 – 2,000) x $20 = $4,000; the variance is unfavorable because the company took more time than budgeted to produce the 1,000 widgets. If the company had instead taken 1,900 hours to manufacture 1,000 widgets, the variance would be favorable $2,000.
What Is Variable Overhead Spending Variance?  

A spending variance is the difference between the actual amount of a particular expense and the expected (or budgeted) amount of an expense. To understand what variable overhead spending variance is, it helps to know what a variable overhead is. Variable overhead is a cost associated with running a business that fluctuates with operational activity. As production output increases or decreases, variable overheads move in tandem. Overheads are typically a fixed cost, for example, administrative expenses. Variable overheads, on the other hand, are tied to production levels.



Variable overhead spending variance is the difference between actual variable overhead cost, which is based on the costs of indirect materials involved in manufacturing, and the budgeted costs called the standard variable overhead costs.





Key Takeaways

Variable Overhead Spending Variance is the difference between what the variable production overheads actually cost and what they should have cost given the level of activity during a period.The standard variable overhead rate is typically expressed in terms of machine hours or labor hours.Variable overhead spending variance is favorable if the actual costs of indirect materials are lower than the standard or budgeted variable overheads.Variable overhead spending variance is unfavorable if the actual costs are higher than the budgeted costs.


   Understanding Variable Overhead Spending Variance  

Variable Overhead Spending Variance is essentially the difference between what the variable production overheads actually cost and what they should have cost given the level of activity during a period.



The standard variable overhead rate is typically expressed in terms of the number of machine hours or labor hours depending on whether the production process is predominantly carried out manually or by automation. A company may even use both machine and labor hours as a basis for the standard (budgeted) rate if the use both manual and automated processes in their operations.



Variable overhead spending variance is favorable if the actual costs of indirect materials — for example, paint and consumables such as oil and grease—are lower than the standard or budgeted variable overheads. It is unfavorable if the actual costs are higher than the budgeted costs.






Variable production overheads include costs that cannot be directly attributed to a specific unit of output. Costs such as direct material and direct labor, on the other hand, vary directly with each unit of output.


   Example of Variable Overhead Spending Variance  

Let's say that actual labor hours used are 140, the standard or budgeted variable overhead rate is $8.40 per direct labor hour and the actual variable overhead rate is $7.30 per direct labor hour. The variable overhead spending variance is calculated as below:



Standard variable overhead Rate $8.40 − Actual Variable Overhead Rate $7.30 =$1.10



Difference Per Hour = $ 1.10 × Actual Labor Hours 140 = $154



Variable Overhead Spending Variance = $154



In this case, the variance is favorable because the actual costs are lower than the standard costs.



A favorable variance may occur due to economies of scale, bulk discounts for materials, cheaper supplies, efficient cost controls, or errors in budgetary planning.



An unfavorable variance may occur if the cost of indirect labor increases, cost controls are ineffective, or there are errors in budgetary planning.


   Limitations  



Fast Fact

Variable overhead spending variance is essentially the difference between the actual cost of variable production overheads versus what they should have cost given the output during a period.
The Variable Prepaid Forward Contract: An Overview  

A variable prepaid forward contract is a strategy used by stockholders to cash in some or all of their shares while deferring the taxes owed on the capital gains. The sale agreement is not immediately finalized but the stockholder collects the money.



This strategy is typically used by investors who own a large number of shares in a single company and want to raise cash while postponing taxes.


   Understanding the Variable Prepaid Forward Contract  

A typical user of a variable prepaid forward contract might be a founder or top executive of a corporation who has accumulated a large amount of company stock. That person might want to diversify their concentrated investments, lock in profits in the stock, or at the very least raise a large amount of cash.





Key Takeaways

This strategy allows a large shareholder to cash in while postponing taxes due on capital gains.The sale is not finalized. That's an advantage for holders of stock options with a later exercise date.The strategy is controversial and tends to draw IRS scrutiny.



The use of a variable prepaid forward contract allows that person to sell the stock to a brokerage company. The investor is immediately paid between 75% and 90% of the current value of the stock, but the transaction is not finalized.﻿ Until it is finalized, the taxes on the capital gains are not due. At that time, the stockholder turns over the shares or the cash equivalent, with a price range set in advance to protect against a substantial loss.



The practice is particularly useful under certain circumstances. For instance, some executives who are granted stock options are prohibited from selling them for a certain period of time. Also, a large stock transaction by a company insider at any time makes investors nervous. The variable prepaid forward contract neatly circumvents these obstacles.



Since the contract establishes a floor and ceiling price on the final transaction, it also protects the investor from a heavy loss if the stock gains dramatically in value before the transaction is finalized.



Needless to say, this practice is controversial and some think it should not be allowed.



Technically, a prepaid variable forward contract is a collar strategy, which is a bundled long put option and short call option on a security. However, it has a third element: the monetization of the transaction in the form of a loan against the underlying security. While once fairly sophisticated, these types of strategies have become more commonplace thanks to advancements in financial engineering.



Naturally, they also tend to draw the attention of the IRS and financial journalists. In 2011, The New York Times ran a front-page feature highlighting how Ronald Lauder, the Estée Lauder cosmetics heir, was "artfully sheltering" his compensation through a prepaid variable forward contract. With executive pay at many multiples of the average employees' compensation levels, these types of strategies are popular targets for scrutiny.﻿﻿﻿
What Is a Variable Price Limit?  

A variable price limit is a type of circuit breaker used to maintain orderly trading conditions. It is associated with the commodities futures markets, which are known for their occasionally high levels of volatility.



Once a given futures contract has reached its limit price, the exchange may allow its trading to resume within an expanded upper and lower bound of prices. Those new minimum and maximum prices are known as its variable price limits.





Key Takeaways

A variable price limit is a method of controlling volatility on commodities futures exchanges.It allows the price of a given commodity to rise or fall within an expanded range on the days after the commodity’s fixed limit price was reached.Different exchanges will set their own variable price limits, and some commodities may not have variable price limits at all.


   How Variable Price Limits Work  

Commodities futures exchange operators such as the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) use price limits to control the maximum amount of volatility permitted within a given trading day. If a particular commodity rises or falls by more than the maximum permitted amount, the exchange operator can either freeze trading in that commodity or else allow it to continue trading within its variable price limits.



Oftentimes, the exchange will first freeze trading and then resume trading the following day within the variable price limits. This approach allows a ‘cooling-off’ period and also permits traders to more easily unwind their positions the following day. If successful, these measures will first prevent any potential panic or speculative mania from taking hold of the market, and then allow prices to gradually recover their fair value.



Each exchange will set its own initial price limits and variable price limits. These limits are subject to change and, in fact, some commodities may lack variable price limits altogether. Before trading a particular commodity, traders should carefully review that contract’s specifications to make sure they understand how the exchange would handle periods of heightened volatility. Depending on the exchange’s guidelines, certain trading strategies that rely on rare but extreme volatility may be difficult or impossible to execute.


   Real-World Example of a Variable Price Limit  

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) is the largest commodities futures exchange in the world, facilitating trading in a wide range of futures contracts for agricultural products, equity indexes, energy commodities, and other assets.



To illustrate the concept of a variable price limit, consider the case of the CME’s rough rice contracts. As of March 2021, the price of its rough rice contracts was subject to a fixed limit price of $0.85, meaning that trading would be halted if the price of rough rice rose or fell by that amount or greater within any single trading day. At the same time, the variable price limit for rough rice was set to $1.30. This larger band is designed to give traders ample move to enter or exit their positions the following day, so that the market price of rough rice could regain its equilibrium reasonably quickly.
What Is a Variable-Rate Certificate of Deposit (CD)?  

A variable-rate certificate of deposit (CD) is a type of savings account offered by banks and credit unions. Also sometimes called a "flex CD," this certificate locks up your money for a fixed length of time (term) but provides a fluctuating interest rate based on different factors such as the prime rate, the Consumer Price Index (CPI), Treasury bills, or a market index. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) protects variable-rate and other CDs.





Key Takeaways

A variable-rate certificate of deposit (CD) (aka, flex CD) provides a fixed term and a fluctuating interest rate.Typically, a penalty is associated with the early withdrawal of funds in a CD.Finding a variable-rate CD with a competitive interest rate could take research, as they are not widely available.Variable-rate CDs can be profitable if interest rates rise and less profitable if rates are low for a long time or decline from higher rates.


   Understanding a Variable-Rate CD  

A variable-rate CD allows investors to put their money into a secure, protected account where it will earn interest over the life of its term. The earned interest is usually inaccessible to the account holder until the CD matures. Variable-rate CDs tend to have both limited choices of terms and longer terms, such as a 12-, 24-, or 36-month term.



Finding a variable-rate CD can also be more challenging compared to other CD types. You may need to research options at smaller or community banks and credit unions.



A variable-rate CD pays an interest rate that can go up and down throughout the life of the security. The exact factors determining the interest rate of a variable-rate CD will vary depending on the institution.



A bump-up CD could be considered a type of variable-rate CD and is offered by more banks and credit unions. With a bump-up or step-up CD, rates only go up, not down. But typically, you must initiate the change, and there are limits on how many times the rate can change (usually only once or twice).



In contrast to either a variable or step-up CD, the widely available fixed-rate CD has a locked-in interest rate, so the rate remains the same throughout the entire term. Fixed-rated CDs tend to offer more terms to choose from, such as 3-month to 5-year CDs.



A CD is generally considered one of the safer ways to invest your money, especially as your money is insured by the FDIC, up to $250,000. CDs, overall, are among the most reliable, low-risk investment options available. They appeal to conservative, risk-averse savers and investors.



Investing in CDs is also an excellent way to diversify the risk of your portfolio. For new or cautious investors, a fixed-rate CD may be preferable, but consumers comfortable with increasing the risk just a little bit may want to consider a variable-rate CD if rates are predicted to rise.






Variable-rate CDs typically require a minimum of $500 or more.


   Special Considerations of a Variable-Rate CD  

When considering a CD with a variable interest rate, remember a few things. First, these CDs generally have the most significant profit potential if interest rates are low, with a good chance rates will rise over the term. By contrast, if interest rates are high when the CD is opened, it’s possible that they could go down soon after and take your returns lower, too.



Also, consider what features are most important to you. A variable-rate CD with a steep penalty for early withdrawal may not be as appealing as a no-penalty CD with a more relaxed early withdrawal policy.



As attractive as they sound, variable-rate CDs also come with certain pitfalls. Prolonged low interest rates, for example, can adversely affect your returns, even if the rates increase later. In contrast, fixed-rate CDs may be more profitable during such times.



Variable-rate CD returns are also susceptible to inflation. This is especially the case during times of high inflation. A CD essentially locks in your funds for a certain period of time. If inflation shoots up during that period and your returns do not keep pace with it, the real value of your holdings declines.


   Example of a Variable-Rate CD  

Meilee wants to park her money in a variable-rate CD, and spends time researching where it's possible to do so at a higher rate. She finds a 12-month CD that offers a variable, competitive rate based on the Federal Reserve’s federal funds rate minus 0.25%. The Federal funds rate is 2.50% when she opens the account, so she will earn 2.25% APY to begin with.



Meilee thinks rates will go up, and so puts $1,000 into the variable-rate CD. Meilee's friend Amy puts $1,000 into a traditional 12-month CD at the same time as Meilee; the CD offers a 3% interest rate.



After only one month, the federal funds rate increases to 3.25%. Meilee's variable-rate CD now earns 3%, the same as Amy's. The Fed rate continues to increase over the next six months until it is at 4.75% in September. Meilee earns 4.5% in interest in September. Amy is still earning 3% in September.



But imagine if Meilee was wrong, and the federal funds rate declined to 2% after six months. Meilee would only earn 1.75% on her CD, while Amy would still be earning 3%.




Are Variable-Rate Certificates of Deposit (CDs) Insured by the Government?
Certificates of deposit (CDs) are one of the safer ways to invest, especially as Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) protection backs most of them. The FDIC protects CDs up to $250,000 per depositor at FDIC-insured banks and savings associations.




What Happens If I Redeem a CD Before It Matures?
Typically, early withdrawal results in a financial penalty of months of interest already earned. The earned interest is usually inaccessible to the account holder until the CD matures. Some issuers do offer a penalty-free CD that allows for the early withdrawal of funds. However, the interest rate is likely to be lower than CDs that do not provide this option.




What Determines the Rate on a Variable-Rate CD?
The financial institution decides which benchmark rate it will use to set the CD’s rate, the frequency of change, and any other factors. For example, institutions could use the Federal Reserve Bank’s federal funds target rate, the bank's prime rate, the federal funds rate upper limit, or the Wall Street Journal Prime Rate (WSJP). The interest rate is expressed as an annual percentage yield could even change daily at the institution's discretion.


   The Bottom Line  

Variable-rate CDs provide a variety of benefits to people looking for a secure, protected investment that will earn a relatively modest amount of interest if rates are rising. Remember that the earned interest is usually inaccessible to the account holder until the CD matures.



As attractive as they sound, variable-rate CDs also come with certain pitfalls. For example, prolonged low interest rates can adversely affect your returns, even if the rates increase later. Your rate (and returns) could also fall if benchmark rates decline. In contrast, fixed-rate CDs are more profitable during such times.
What Is a Variable-Rate Demand Bond?  

A variable-rate demand bond is a type of municipal bond (muni) with floating coupon payments that are adjusted at specific intervals. The bond is payable to the bondholder upon demand following an interest rate change. Generally, the current money market rate is used to set the interest rate, plus or minus a set percentage, which may result in a change in coupon payments over time.





Key Takeaways

A variable-rate demand bond is a type of municipal bond with floating coupon payments adjusted at specific intervals.Municipal bonds are issued by state and local governments to raise capital to finance large public projects.﻿﻿Compared to generic municipal bonds, the floating rate of demand bonds' coupon payments contribute to greater uncertainty, though some of this risk can be mitigated.


   Understanding Variable-Rate Demand Bonds  

Although bondholders may redeem a demand bond at any time, they are often encouraged to keep these bonds in order to continue receiving coupon payments. The floating rate of the coupon payment contributes to greater uncertainty in coupon cash flows compared to generic municipal bonds, although some of this risk may be mitigated by a redemption option.



Municipal bonds are issued by state and local governments to raise capital to finance public projects, such as building hospitals, highways, and schools. In return for lending the municipalities money, investors are paid periodic interest in the form of coupons for the duration of the bond’s term. At maturity, the governmental issuer repays the face value of the bond to the bondholders.



Some muni bonds have fixed coupons, while others are variable. Muni bonds with floating coupon rates are called variable-rate demand bonds. The interest rates on these bonds generally are reset daily, weekly, or monthly. The bonds are issued for long-term financing with maturities ranging from 20 to 30 years.



In addition, variable-rate demand bonds require a form of liquidity in the event of a failed remarketing. The liquidity facility used to enhance the issuer's credit could be a letter of credit, standby bond purchase agreement (BPA), or self-liquidity, all of which assist in making these securities eligible for money market funds.



For instance, a letter of credit provides an unconditional commitment by a bank to pay investors the principal and interest on the variable-rate demand bonds in the event of default, bankruptcy, or a downgrade of the issuer. As long as the financial institution providing the letter of credit is solvent, the investor will receive payment.


   The Early Redemption Option  

Variable-rate demand bonds are often issued with an embedded put feature that allows bondholders to tender the issues back to the issuing entity on the interest reset date. The put price is par plus accrued interest. The bondholders must provide notice to the tender agent by a specified number of days prior to the date that the debt securities will be tendered.



A variable-rate demand bond would normally be put, or exercised, if the holder wants immediate access to their funds, or if market interest rates in the economy have increased to a level at which the current coupon rate on the bond is not attractive.



If the bond is tendered prior to maturity because of an increase in rates, the remarketing agent will set a new, higher rate for the bond. If market rates fall below the coupon rate, the agent will reset the rate at the lowest rate that would avoid having a put exercised on the bond.
What Is a Variable Rate Demand Note?  

A variable-rate demand note (VRDN) is a debt instrument that represents borrowed funds that are payable on demand and accrue interest based on a prevailing money market rate, such as the prime rate. The interest rate applicable to the borrowed funds is specified from the outset of the debt and is typically equal to the specified money market rate plus an extra margin.



A VRDN is also referred to as a variable rate demand obligation (VRDO).


   Understanding Variable Rate Demand Note (VRDN)  

A variable-rate demand note (VRDN) is a long-term municipal bond which is offered to investors through money market funds. The notes allow a municipal government to borrow money for long periods of time while paying short-term interest rates to investors. As VRDNs are issued in a minimum of $100,000 denominations, smaller investors can only invest in VRDOs indirectly through money market funds.  



Because money market interest rates, such as the bank prime rate, are variable over time, the interest rate applicable to a variable rate demand note is variable as well. Every time the prevailing money market rate changes, a variable rate demand note's interest rate is adjusted accordingly. Typically, the interest rate on VRDN is adjusted daily, weekly, or monthly to reflect the current interest rate environment.



As the name implies, variable rate demand notes are payable on demand as they have an embedded put option. This means that the investor or lender of the funds can request a repayment of the entire debt amount at his or her discretion, and the funds must be repaid once the demand has been made. Depending on the demand feature affixed to these debt instruments, the investor may be required to provide a one-day or seven-day notification to tender the securities to a financial intermediary, such as a trustee or remarketing agent. Because of the demand feature, the maturity date of a VRDN is considered to be the next put date rather than its final maturity date.



Another feature of the VRDN that makes it an attractive investment option for money market investors is the credit enhancement that supports the demand note. A credit enhancement is a feature added to a security to improve its credit profile and mitigate default risk of the underlying assets. VRDN issuers employ credit enhancements through letters of credit (LOCs) from a highly rated financial institution, which serves as the liquidity provider of last resort, committed to supporting the timely payment of interest and repayment of principal on tendered securities. As long as the financial institution providing the letter of credit is solvent, the investor will receive payment. For this reason, the interest rate on VRDNs tends to reflect the short-term credit rating of the bank providing the letter of credit rather than the municipality issuing the VRDN. Another form of credit enhancement that may be used to reduce default risk is a standby bond purchase agreement which is typically provided by a reputable bank.



Variable-rate demand notes produce returns that have low correlations with stocks and bonds, thus, making them good investments for portfolio diversification. In addition, VRDNs issued by municipalities are generally exempt from federal taxes. Many issues are also exempt from state taxes in the state of issue.
What Is a Variable Rate Mortgage?  

A variable rate mortgage is a type of home loan in which the interest rate is not fixed. Instead, interest payments will be adjusted at a level above a specific benchmark or reference rate, such as the Prime Rate + 2 points. Lenders can offer borrowers variable rate interest over the life of a mortgage loan. They can also offer a hybrid adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM), which includes both an initial fixed period followed by a variable rate that resets periodically thereafter.



Common varieties of hybrid ARM include the 5/1 ARM, having a 5-year fixed term followed by a variable rate on the remainder of the loan (typically 25 more years).





Key Takeaways

A variable rate mortgage employs a floating rate over part or all of the loan's term, rather than having a fixed interest rate throughout.The variable rate will most often utilize an index rate, such as the Prime Rate or the Fed funds rate, and then add a loan margin on top of it.The most common instance is an adjustable rate mortgage, or ARM, which will typically have an initial fixed-rate period of some years, followed by regular adjustable rates for the rest of the loan.


   How a Variable Rate Mortgage Works  

A variable rate mortgage differs from a fixed rate mortgage in that rates during some portion of the loan’s duration are structured as floating, and not fixed. Lenders offer both variable rate and adjustable rate mortgage loan products with differing variable rate structures.



Generally, lenders can offer borrowers either fully amortizing or non-amortizing loans that incorporate different variable rate interest structures. Variable rate loans are typically favored by borrowers who believe rates will fall over time. In falling rate environments, borrowers can take advantage of decreasing rates without refinancing since their interest rates decrease with the market rate.



Full-term variable rate loans will charge borrowers variable rate interest throughout the entire life of the loan. In a variable rate loan, the borrower’s interest rate will be based on the indexed rate and any margin that is required. The interest rate on the loan may fluctuate at any time during the life of the loan.


   Variable Rates  

Variable rates are structured to include an indexed rate to which a variable rate margin is added. If a borrower is charged a variable rate, they will be assigned a margin in the underwriting process. Most variable rate mortgages will thus include a fully indexed rate that is based on the indexed rate plus margin.



The indexed rate on an adjustable rate mortgage is what causes the fully indexed rate to fluctuate for the borrower. In variable rate products, such as an ARM, the lender chooses a specific benchmark to which to index the base interest rate. Indexes can include the lender’s prime rate, and various different types of U.S. Treasuries. A variable rate product’s indexed rate will be disclosed in the credit agreement. Any changes to the indexed rate will cause a change for the borrower’s fully indexed interest rate.



The ARM margin is the second component involved in a borrower’s fully indexed rate on an adjustable rate mortgage. In an ARM the underwriter determines an ARM margin level which is added to the indexed rate to create the fully indexed interest rate that the borrower is expected to pay. High credit quality borrowers can expect to have a lower ARM margin which results in a lower interest rate overall on the loan. Lower credit quality borrowers will have a higher ARM margin which requires them to pay higher rates of interest on their loan.



Some borrowers may qualify to pay just the indexed rate, which can be charged to high credit quality borrowers in a variable rate loan. The indexed rates are usually benchmarked to the lender’s prime rate; however, it can also be benchmarked to Treasury rates. A variable rate loan will charge the borrower interest that fluctuates with changes in the indexed rate.


   Example of Variable Rate Mortgages: Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans (ARMs)  

Adjustable rate mortgage loans (ARMs) are a common type of variable rate mortgage loan product offered by mortgage lenders. These loans charge a borrower a fixed interest rate in the first few years of the loan followed by a variable interest rate after that.



The terms of the loan will vary by particular product offering. For example, in a 2/28 ARM loan, a borrower would pay two years of fixed rate interest followed by 28 years of variable interest that can change at any time.



In a 5/1 ARM loan, the borrower would pay fixed rate interest for the first five years with variable rate interest after that, while in a 5/1 variable rate loan, the borrower’s variable rate interest would reset every year based on the fully indexed rate at the time of the reset date.




Why Are ARM Mortgages Called Hybrid Loans?
ARMs have an initial fixed-rate period followed by the remainder of the loan using a variable interest rate. For instance, in a 7/1 ARM, the first seven years would be fixed. Then from the 8th year onwards, the rate would adjust on an annual basis depending on prevailing rates.




What Happens to Variable Rate Mortgages When Interest Rates Go Up?
When interest rates go up, the variable rate on the mortgage will also adjust higher. This means that the monthly payments on the loan will also increase. Note than many ARMs and other variable rate loans will have an interest rate cap, above which the rate can not increase any further.




What Are Some Pros and Cons of Variable Rate Mortgages?
Pros of variable rate mortgages can include lower initial payments than a fixed-rate loan, and lower payments if interest rates drop. The downsides are that the mortgage payments can increase if interest rates rise. This could lead to homeowners being trapped in an increasingly unaffordable home as interest rate hikes occur.
What Is a Variable Ratio Write?  

A variable ratio write is a strategy in options investing that requires holding a long position in the underlying asset while simultaneously writing multiple call options at varying strike prices. It is essentially a ratio buy-write strategy.



The trader's goal is to capture the premiums paid for the call options. Variable ratio writes have limited profit potential. The strategy is best used on stocks with little expected volatility, particularly in the near term.





Key Takeaways

A variable ratio write is an options strategy used by traders who seek a side source of income for a stock that they own.The strategy is used when a trader thinks the stock will remain static in price for some period of time.The trader invests in multiple call options at varying strike prices.The potential profit is in the premiums paid for the call options.


   Understanding Variable Ratio Writes  

In ratio call writing, the word "ratio" represents the number of options sold for every 100 shares owned in the underlying stock.



For example, in a 2:1 variable ratio write, the trader might own 100 shares of the underlying stock and sell 200 options.



Two calls are written: One is "out of the money." That is, the strike price is higher than the current value of the underlying stock. On the other, the strike price is "in the money," or lower than the price of the underlying stock.



The payoff in a variable ratio write resembles that of a reverse strangle. In the options trade, any strangle strategy involves buying both a call and a put on the same underlying asset.



The variable ratio write is aptly described as having limited profit potential and unlimited risk.






Variable ratio writes have limited upside and unlimited downside.


  When the Variable Ratio Write Is Used  

As an investment strategy, the variable ratio write should be avoided by inexperienced options traders as it is a strategy with unlimited risk potential.



The losses begin if the stock's price makes a strong move to the upside or downside beyond the upper and lower breakeven points set by the trader.



There is no limit to the maximum possible loss on a variable ratio write position. Despite its significant risks, the variable ratio write technique can bring the experienced trader a fair amount of flexibility with managed market risk while providing attractive income.



There are two breakeven points for a variable ratio write position. These breakeven points can be found as follows:


















Upper Breakeven Point


=


S


P


H


+


P


M


P
















Lower Breakeven Point


=


S


P


L


−


P


M


P
















where:
















S


P


H


=


Strike price of higher strike short call
















P


M


P


=


Points of maximum profit
















S


P


L


=


Strike price of lower strike short call







\begin{aligned} &\text{Upper Breakeven Point} = SPH+PMP\\ &\text{Lower Breakeven Point} = SPL-PMP\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &SPH=\text{Strike price of higher strike short call}\\ &PMP=\text{Points of maximum profit}\\ &SPL=\text{Strike price of lower strike short call} \end{aligned}


​Upper Breakeven Point=SPH+PMPLower Breakeven Point=SPL−PMPwhere:SPH=Strike price of higher strike short callPMP=Points of maximum profitSPL=Strike price of lower strike short call​


   Real-World Example of a Variable Ratio Write  

Consider an investor who owns 1,000 shares of the company XYZ, currently trading at $100 per share. The investor believes that the stock is unlikely to move much over the next two months.



The investor can hold onto the stock and still earn a positive return on it while it remains static in price. This is achieved by initiating a variable ratio write position, selling 30 of the 110 strike calls on XYZ that are due to expire in two month's time. The options premium on the 110 calls is $0.25, so our investor will collect $750 from selling the options.



That is, if the investor is correct in predicting that the stock's price will remain flat.



After two months, if XYZ shares remain below $110, the investor will book the entire $750 premium as profit, since the calls will be worthless when they expire.



If the shares rise above the breakeven $110.25, however, the gains on the long stock position will be more than offset by losses by the short calls. The options represented 3,000 shares of XYZ, triple the number that the trader owns.
What Is Variable Survivorship Life Insurance?  

Variable survivorship life insurance is a type of variable life insurance policy that covers two individuals and pays a death benefit to a beneficiary only after both people have died. It may pay out a benefit prior to the first policyholder's death if the policy has a living benefit rider. The living benefit rider is often automatically included in life insurance policies at no cost. This rider allows access to a certain amount of policy death benefit in the case of terminal illness as defined in the policy.



Variable survivorship life insurance is also called "survivorship variable life insurance" or "last-survivor life insurance."


   Understanding Variable Survivorship Life Insurance  

Like any variable life policy, variable survivorship life insurance has a cash value component in which a portion of each premium payment is set aside to be invested by the policyholder, who bears all investment risk. The insurer selects several dozen investment options from which the policyholder may choose.



The other portion of the premium goes toward administrative expenses and the policy's death benefit (also called face value). This type of policy is legally considered a security because of its investment component and is subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.



A more flexible version of variable survivorship life insurance called "variable universal survivorship life insurance" allows the policyholder to adjust the policy's premiums and death benefit during the policy's life.


   Benefits of Variable Survivorship Life Insurance  
  Policies allow you to invest premiums  

Variable survivorship life insurance policies let policyholders invest premiums in a separate account whose value will fluctuate based on the performance of the market.


  Policies are cheaper  

Variable survivorship life insurance is typically thousands of dollars cheaper than regular single-insured life insurance because the premiums associated with survivorship policies are determined by the joint life expectancy of the insured parties. As such, premiums are cheaper than purchasing individual policies for both individuals because the insurance company is not obligated to pay benefits until the deaths of both policyholders occur.


  They're easier to buy  

It is significantly easier to qualify for a survivorship life policy than is it to qualify for single-insured life insurance. This is mainly due to the fact that variable survivorship life insurance companies are less worried about the health statuses of the individual policyholders, who must both die before the benefit is paid. Consequently, underwriting is less stringent and acceptance is more likely.


  They build estates  

Survivorship life insurance is sometimes touted as a means to grow an estate and not just shield the estate from tax liabilities. The death benefit of a survivorship life policy is similar to traditional life insurance in that it can ensure beneficiaries receive at least a moderate payout, even if a policyholder burns through his entire estate during the beneficiary’s lifetime.


  They preserve estates  

Individuals interested in bequeathing their assets to their loved ones tend to favor survivorship life insurance policies because they provide liquidity for an estate to cover various taxes.
What Is Variable Universal Life (VUL) Insurance?  

Variable universal life (VUL) combines lifelong insurance protection with flexible premiums and cash value you can access while alive. VUL insurance lets you invest and grow the cash value through subaccounts that operate like mutual funds. Exposure to market fluctuations can generate high returns but may also result in substantial losses. 



VUL is similar to variable life insurance, but unlike variable life, it allows you to change your premium payment amount. While VUL insurance offers increased flexibility and growth potential over other life insurance options, you should carefully assess the risks before purchasing it.





Key Takeaways

Variable universal life (VUL) insurance is a type of permanent life insurance policy that allows for the cash component to be invested to produce greater returns.VUL insurance policies are built like traditional universal life insurance policies but let you invest the cash value in the market via subaccounts.The return to the cash component is not guaranteed year after year. You can even lose money.If your cash value balance is too low, you could need to pay higher premiums to keep your VUL.


   How Variable Universal Life (VUL) Insurance Works  

Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance policy. It combines a death benefit with a savings component, called cash value. This coverage can last your entire life so long as you continue paying for the insurance costs. A VUL lets you adjust how much you pay into the policy each year, the same as traditional universal life insurance.



You must pay enough each year to cover the ongoing insurance costs of your policy. The insurer will deduct this amount from your premiums. The remainder of your premiums will go toward your policy's cash value.


  Investment Risk and Cash Value  

In a VUL, you pick how to invest your cash value between a variety of subaccounts. Your interest and future growth depends on the investment performance. If the investments do well, your cash value will grow more quickly. The growth of the VUL insurance policy’s cash value is tax-deferred. Policyholders may access their cash value by taking a withdrawal or borrowing funds.



If your investments do poorly, your cash value will not grow as quickly. It is possible to lose money with a VUL. If you face significant losses, you may need to make larger premium payments to cover the cost of your life insurance and rebuild your cash value. Otherwise, your policy would lapse, and you would lose insurance protection.






Unlike whole life insurance, the life insurer transfers the investment risk of the VUL cash value to you.


  VUL Subaccounts  

The separate subaccount for a VUL is structured like a family of mutual funds. Each has an array of stock and bond accounts, along with a money market option. Some policies restrict the number of transfers into and out of the funds. If a policyholder has exceeded the number of transfers in a year, they would need to pay a fee for additional transfers and changes to their investment strategy.



In addition to the standard administration and mortality fees paid by the policyholder each year, the subaccounts deduct management fees that can range from 0.5% to 2%. Because the subaccounts are securities, the life insurance representative must be a licensed producer and registered with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) to sell a VUL.


   Pros and Cons of Variable Universal Life Insurance  







Pros and Cons of Variable Universal Life Insurance




 Pros
Cons 


Control over cash value investments
 Risk of cash value losses


High growth potential
 Possible increase in premiums


Flexible premiums 
 High fees and charges






A VUL gives you control over how to invest your cash value. You can pick the subaccounts that best fit your risk tolerance and investment objectives. If your investments do well, you can grow your cash value more quickly with a VUL versus other types of permanent life insurance. Since a VUL is a form of universal life, you can also adjust how much you pay into the policy each year to fit your budget.



A VUL does have risks and drawbacks. Your cash value return is not guaranteed. If your investments perform badly, your cash value will not grow as quickly and you could even lose money some years. If you don't have enough in cash value to cover the cost of your life insurance, you would need to increase your premium payments. Otherwise, you lose your insurance protection.



Lastly, VULs can charge high fees because you're paying both for life insurance and investments. In addition, a VUL could include a surrender charge where you owe a penalty if you cancel within 15 years of your purchase, depending on the insurance company.The surrender charge could be 10% or more of your cash value balance.


   Suitability and Alternatives  

A VUL could make sense if you want permanent life insurance protection, have a higher risk tolerance for investing, and prefer managing investments yourself. It could be worth considering if you've maxed out your other retirement accounts. You could then use a VUL for more tax-deferred investment growth. These products have higher growth potential than other types of life insurance but are more complicated and riskier. Some other alternatives to consider include:



Variable life: Variable life also lets you invest in the market through subaccounts. However, you cannot change the monthly premium. In exchange, these policies usually promise a minimum death benefit as long as you keep paying, even if you lose money with your investments.



Universal life: Universal life lets you adjust the premiums. The cash value grows based on market interest rates. While the return changes each year, there is usually a guaranteed minimum growth rate and no risk of losses.



Whole life: Whole life is the safest option. It charges the same fixed premium and has a guaranteed death benefit and a fixed cash value return. In exchange for safety, it has the lowest growth potential.



Term life: Term life is temporary life insurance protection. These policies charge a much lower premium than permanent life. Term life policies do not build cash value. You could use the money you save on insurance costs to invest through a brokerage account.




What Is VUL in Insurance?
VUL stands for variable universal life. It is a variation on a standard universal life policy that allows for some of the cash value accumulated to be invested into the market and earn a return.




Is VUL a Good Investment?
As an insurance product, VUL may be able to boost returns in the policy during bull markets. However, as a standalone investment, VUL will not be able to match the performance of investing directly in the market. This is because the fees and the cost of the insurance component will drag down the total return.




What Can VUL Policies Invest In?
The exact investment options will vary among insurance companies, but almost all VUL policies allow investments in stocks, bonds, money market securities, ETFs, and mutual funds, as well as a guaranteed fixed-interest option.


   Bottom Line  

Variable universal life insurance combines permanent insurance protection with an investment account. These policies could make sense for those comfortable taking on more risk for the chance to earn higher cash value growth. VULs can have high fees and are more complicated to manage, so they are not appropriate for everyone. Before signing up, be sure to compare against your other life insurance and investment options.
What Is Variance?  

The term variance refers to a statistical measurement of the spread between numbers in a data set. More specifically, variance measures how far each number in the set is from the mean (average), and thus from every other number in the set. Variance is often depicted by this symbol: σ2. It is used by both analysts and traders to determine volatility and market security.



The square root of the variance is the standard deviation (SD or σ), which helps determine the consistency of an investment’s returns over a period of time.





Key Takeaways

Variance is a measurement of the spread between numbers in a data set.In particular, it measures the degree of dispersion of data around the sample's mean.Investors use variance to see how much risk an investment carries and whether it will be profitable.Variance is also used in finance to compare the relative performance of each asset in a portfolio to achieve the best asset allocation.The square root of the variance is the standard deviation.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Understanding Variance  

In statistics, variance measures variability from the average or mean. It is calculated by taking the differences between each number in the data set and the mean, then squaring the differences to make them positive, and finally dividing the sum of the squares by the number of values in the data set.
Variance is calculated by using the following formula:
















σ


2



=





∑



i


=


1



n



(



x


i



−



x


‾




)


2




N

















where:

















x


i



=


Each value in the data set

















x


‾



=


Mean of all values in the data set
















N


=


Number of values in the data set







\begin{aligned}&\sigma^2 = \frac { \sum_{i = 1} ^ { n } \big (x_i - \overline { x } \big ) ^ 2 }{ N } \\&\textbf{where:} \\&x_i = \text{Each value in the data set} \\&\overline { x } = \text{Mean of all values in the data set} \\&N = \text{Number of values in the data set} \\\end{aligned}


​σ2=N∑i=1n​(xi​−x)2​where:xi​=Each value in the data setx=Mean of all values in the data setN=Number of values in the data set​






You can also use the formula above to calculate the variance in areas other than investments and trading, with some slight alterations. For instance, when calculating a sample variance to estimate a population variance, the denominator of the variance equation becomes N − 1 so that the estimation is unbiased and does not underestimate the population variance.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Variance  

Statisticians use variance to see how individual numbers relate to each other within a data set, rather than using broader mathematical techniques such as arranging numbers into quartiles. The advantage of variance is that it treats all deviations from the mean as the same regardless of their direction. The squared deviations cannot sum to zero and give the appearance of no variability at all in the data.



One drawback to variance, though, is that it gives added weight to outliers. These are the numbers far from the mean. Squaring these numbers can skew the data. Another pitfall of using variance is that it is not easily interpreted. Users often employ it primarily to take the square root of its value, which indicates the standard deviation of the data. As noted above, investors can use standard deviation to assess how consistent returns are over time.






In some cases, risk or volatility may be expressed as a standard deviation rather than a variance because the former is often more easily interpreted.


   Example of Variance in Finance  

Here’s a hypothetical example to demonstrate how variance works. Let’s say returns for stock in Company ABC are 10% in Year 1, 20% in Year 2, and −15% in Year 3. The average of these three returns is 5%. The differences between each return and the average are 5%, 15%, and −20% for each consecutive year.



Squaring these deviations yields 0.25%, 2.25%, and 4.00%, respectively. If we add these squared deviations, we get a total of 6.5%. When you divide the sum of 6.5% by one less the number of returns in the data set, as this is a sample (2 = 3-1), it gives us a variance of 3.25% (0.0325). Taking the square root of the variance yields a standard deviation of 18% (√0.0325 = 0.180) for the returns.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


How Do I Calculate Variance?
Follow these steps to compute variance:Calculate the mean of the data.Find each data point's difference from the mean value.Square each of these values.Add up all of the squared values.Divide this sum of squares by n – 1 (for a sample) or N (for the population).




What Is Variance Used for?
Variance is essentially the degree of spread in a data set about the mean value of that data. It shows the amount of variation that exists among the data points. Visually, the larger the variance, the "fatter" a probability distribution will be. In finance, if something like an investment has a greater variance, it may be interpreted as more risky or volatile.




Why Is Standard Deviation Often Used More Than Variance?
Standard deviation is the square root of variance. It is sometimes more useful since taking the square root removes the units from the analysis. This allows for direct comparisons between different things that may have different units or different magnitudes. For instance, to say that increasing X by one unit increases Y by two standard deviations allows you to understand the relationship between X and Y regardless of what units they are expressed in.
What Is a Variance Inflation Factor (VIF)?  

A variance inflation factor (VIF) is a measure of the amount of multicollinearity in regression analysis. Multicollinearity exists when there is a correlation between multiple independent variables in a multiple regression model. This can adversely affect the regression results. Thus, the variance inflation factor can estimate how much the variance of a regression coefficient is inflated due to multicollinearity.





Key Takeaways

A variance inflation factor (VIF) provides a measure of multicollinearity among the independent variables in a multiple regression model.Detecting multicollinearity is important because while multicollinearity does not reduce the explanatory power of the model, it does reduce the statistical significance of the independent variables. A large VIF on an independent variable indicates a highly collinear relationship to the other variables that should be considered or adjusted for in the structure of the model and selection of independent variables.


   Understanding a Variance Inflation Factor (VIF)  

A variance inflation factor is a tool to help identify the degree of multicollinearity. Multiple regression is used when a person wants to test the effect of multiple variables on a particular outcome. The dependent variable is the outcome that is being acted upon by the independent variables—the inputs into the model. Multicollinearity exists when there is a linear relationship, or correlation, between one or more of the independent variables or inputs.


  The Problem of Multicollinearity  

Multicollinearity creates a problem in the multiple regression model because the inputs are all influencing each other. Therefore, they are not actually independent, and it is difficult to test how much the combination of the independent variables affects the dependent variable, or outcome, within the regression model.



While multicollinearity does not reduce a model's overall predictive power, it can produce estimates of the regression coefficients that are not statistically significant. In a sense, it can be thought of as a kind of double-counting in the model.



In statistical terms, a multiple regression model where there is high multicollinearity will make it more difficult to estimate the relationship between each of the independent variables and the dependent variable. In other words, when two or more independent variables are closely related or measure almost the same thing, then the underlying effect that they measure is being accounted for twice (or more) across the variables. When the independent variables are closely-related, it becomes difficult to say which variable is influencing the dependent variables.



Small changes in the data used or in the structure of the model equation can produce large and erratic changes in the estimated coefficients on the independent variables. This is a problem because the goal of many econometric models is to test exactly this sort of statistical relationship between the independent variables and the dependent variable.


  Tests to Solve Multicollinearity  

To ensure the model is properly specified and functioning correctly, there are tests that can be run for multicollinearity. The variance inflation factor is one such measuring tool. Using variance inflation factors helps to identify the severity of any multicollinearity issues so that the model can be adjusted. Variance inflation factor measures how much the behavior (variance) of an independent variable is influenced, or inflated, by its interaction/correlation with the other independent variables.



Variance inflation factors allow a quick measure of how much a variable is contributing to the standard error in the regression. When significant multicollinearity issues exist, the variance inflation factor will be very large for the variables involved. After these variables are identified, several approaches can be used to eliminate or combine collinear variables, resolving the multicollinearity issue.


   Formula and Calculation of VIF  

The formula for VIF is:
















VIF


i



=



1



1


−



R


i


2



















where:

















R


i


2



=


Unadjusted coefficient of determination for
















regressing the ith independent variable on the
















remaining ones







\begin{aligned}&\text{VIF}_i = \frac{ 1 }{ 1 - R_i^2 } \\&\textbf{where:} \\&R_i^2 = \text{Unadjusted coefficient of determination for} \\&\text{regressing the ith independent variable on the} \\&\text{remaining ones} \\\end{aligned}


​VIFi​=1−Ri2​1​where:Ri2​=Unadjusted coefficient of determination forregressing the ith independent variable on theremaining ones​


   What Can VIF Tell You?  

When Ri2 is equal to 0, and therefore, when VIF or tolerance is equal to 1, the ith independent variable is not correlated to the remaining ones, meaning that multicollinearity does not exist.



In general terms,



VIF equal to 1 = variables are not correlatedVIF between 1 and 5 = variables are moderately correlated VIF greater than 5 = variables are highly correlated



The higher the VIF, the higher the possibility that multicollinearity exists, and further research is required. When VIF is higher than 10, there is significant multicollinearity that needs to be corrected.


   Example of Using VIF  

For example, suppose that an economist wants to test whether there is a statistically significant relationship between the unemployment rate (independent variable) and the inflation rate (dependent variable). Including additional independent variables that are related to the unemployment rate, such as new initial jobless claims, would be likely to introduce multicollinearity into the model.



The overall model might show strong, statistically sufficient explanatory power, but be unable to identify if the effect is mostly due to the unemployment rate or to the new initial jobless claims. This is what the VIF would detect, and it would suggest possibly dropping one of the variables out of the model or finding some way to consolidate them to capture their joint effect depending on what specific hypothesis the researcher is interested in testing. 








What Is a Good VIF Value?
As a rule of thumb, a VIF of three or below is not a cause for concern. As VIF increases, the less reliable your regression results are going to be.




What Does a VIF of 1 Mean?
A VIF equal to one means variables are not correlated and multicollinearity does not exist in the regression model.




What Is VIF Used for?
VIF measures the strength of the correlation between the independent variables in regression analysis. This correlation is known as multicollinearity, which can cause problems for regression models.


   The Bottom Line  

While a moderate amount of multicollinearity is acceptable in a regression model, a higher multicollinearity can be a cause for concern.



Two measures can be taken to correct high multicollinearity, First, one or more of the highly correlated variables can be removed, as the information provided by these variables is redundant. The second method is to use principal components analysis or partial least square regression instead of OLS regression, which can respectively reduce the variables to a smaller set with no correlation, or create new uncorrelated variables. This will improve the predictability of a model.
What Is a Variance Swap?  

A variance swap is a financial derivative used to hedge or speculate on the magnitude of a price movement of an underlying asset. These assets include exchange rates, interest rates, or the price of an index. In plain language, the variance is the difference between an expected result and the actual result.



A variance swap is quite similar to a volatility swap, which utilizes realized volatility instead of variance.





Key Takeaways

A variance swap is a derivative contract in which two parties exchange payments based on the underlying asset's price changes, or volatility.Directional traders use variance trades to speculate on future levels of volatility for an asset, spread traders use them to bet on the difference between realized volatility and implied volatility, and hedge traders use swaps to cover short volatility positions.If realized volatility is more significant than the strike, then payoffs at maturity are positive.


   How a Variance Swap Works  

Similar to a plain vanilla swap, one of the two parties involved in a var swap transaction will pay an amount based upon the actual variance of price changes of the underlying asset. The other party will pay a fixed amount, called the strike, specified at the start of the contract. The strike is typically set at the onset to make the net present value (NPV) of the payoff zero.



At the end of the contract, the net payoff to the counterparties will be a theoretical amount multiplied by the difference between the variance and a fixed amount of volatility, settled in cash. Due to any margin requirements specified in the contract, some payments may occur during the life of the contract should the contract's value move beyond agreed limits.



The variance swap, in mathematical terms, is the arithmetic average of the squared differences from the mean value. The square root of the variance is the standard deviation. Because of this, a variance swap's payout will be larger than that of a volatility swap, as the basis of these products is at variance rather than the standard deviation.



A variance swap is a pure-play on an underlying asset's volatility. Options also give an investor the possibility to speculate on an asset's volatility. But options carry directional risk and their prices depend on many factors, including time, expiration, and implied volatility. Therefore, the equivalent options strategy requires additional risk hedging to complete. Variance swaps are also cheaper to put on since the equivalent of an option involves a strip of options.



There are three main classes of users for variance swaps.



Directional traders use these swaps to speculate on the future level of volatility for an asset.
Spread traders merely bet on the difference between realized volatility and implied volatility.
Hedger traders use swaps to cover short volatility positions.


   Additional Variance Swap Characteristics  

Variance swaps are well suited for speculation or hedging on volatility. Unlike options, variance swaps do not require additional hedging. Options may require delta-hedging. Also, the payoff at maturity to the long holder of the variance swap is always positive when realized volatility is more significant than the strike.



Buyers and sellers of volatility swaps should know that any significant jumps in the price of the underlying asset can skew the variance and produce unexpected results.
What is Variation Margin  

The variation margin is a variable margin payment made by clearing members, such as a futures broker, to their respective clearing houses based on adverse price movements of the futures contracts these members hold. Variation margin is paid by clearing members on a daily or intraday basis to reduce the exposure created by carrying high risk positions. By demanding variation margin from their members, clearing houses are able to maintain a suitable level of risk which allows for the orderly payment and receipt of funds for all traders using that clearing house. 





Key Takeaways

Variation margin refers the amount of funds needed to ensure margin levels for trading. It depends on a variety of factors, including expected price movements, type of asset, and market conditions. 


   Basics of Variation Margin  

Variation margin is used to bring the capital in an account up to the margin level. This margin, and the associated initial and maintenance margin, must be sustained by liquid funds allowing it to function as collateral against any losses that may result from trades underway. 



For example, if a trader buys one futures contract, the initial margin on that contract may be $3,000. This is the amount of capital they need to have in their account to take the trade. The maintenance margin may be $2,500. This means if the money in the account drops below $2,500 the trader is required to top up the account to $3,000 again, as they have lost $500 on their position(s) which reduces the buffer in their account to an unacceptable level. The amount needed to bring the account to an acceptable level in order to ensure future trades is known as variation margin.



Now, imagine that a broker has thousands of traders, all in different positions and both making and losing money. The broker, or clearing member, must take all these positions into account, and then submit funds to the clearing houses which covers the risk taken by all their trades.



The amount of variation margin varies depending on the exact market conditions and price movement experienced over the course of the day. The variation margin payment of additional funds may be deemed necessary by a broker when the equity account balance falls below the maintenance margin or initial margin requirement. This request for funds is referred to as a margin call.


   Margin Call  

A margin call is when a broker requires an investor to contribute additional funds to meet the required minimum margin amount. It is enacted when the account losses money, or additional positions are taken, causing the equity balance to fall below the required minimum for holding those positions. If the investor is not able to meet the margin call, the brokerage can then sell the securities in the account until the amount is met or risk is reduced to an acceptable level.


   Maintenance Margin Requirement  

Maintenance margin is an important factor to consider while calculating variation margin. It refers to the amount of money an investor must keep in his margin account when trading stocks. It is generally less than the initial margin required to make trades. This requirement gives the investor the ability to borrow from a brokerage. This margin functions as collateral against the amount borrowed by the investor.



The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) requires the maintenance margin to be set at a minimum of 25% for stocks. Other brokerages can set higher minimums, such as 50%, depending on the level of risk and the investor involved.



When trading futures, maintenance margin means something different. It is the level at which an investor is required to top up their account to the initial margin amount. 


   Example of Variation Margin   

Let's say a trader buys 100 shares of stock ABC for $10 each. The initial margin set by the broker for purchase is 50%. This means that the broker must have $500 in his account at all times to make trades. Also assume that the maintenance margin is $300.



If the price of ABC falls to $7, then the $300 in losses in the trade are deducted from the initial margin account. This means that initial margin account balance is now $200, which is below the $300 maintenance margin amount specified earlier. The new initial margin amount is $350 (50% of $700). The trader would need to top up their account with $150 in order to continue trading.
What Is the Vasicek Interest Rate Model?  

The term Vasicek Interest Rate Model refers to a mathematical method of modeling the movement and evolution of interest rates. It is a single-factor short-rate model that is based on market risk. The Vasicek interest model is commonly used in economics to determine where interest rates will move in the future. Put simply, it estimates where interest rates will move in a given period of time and can be used to help analysts and investors figure out how the economy and investments will fare in the future.





Key Takeaways

The Vasicek Interest Rate Model is a single-factor short-rate model that predicts where interest rates will end up at the end of a given period of time.It outlines an interest rate's evolution as a factor composed of market risk, time, and equilibrium value. The model is often used in the valuation of interest rate futures and in solving for the price of various hard-to-value bonds.The Vasicek Model values the instantaneous interest rate using a specific formula.This model also accounts for negative interest rates.


   How the Vasicek Interest Rate Model Works  

Predicting how interest rates evolve can be difficult. Investors and analysts have many tools available to help them figure out how they'll change over time in order to make well-informed decisions about how their investments and the economy. The Vasicek Interest Rate Model is among the models that can be used to help estimate where interest rates will go.



As noted above, the Vasicek Interest Rate model, which is commonly referred to as the Vasicek model, is a mathematical model used in financial economics to estimate potential pathways for future interest rate changes. As such, it's considered a stochastic model, which is a form of modeling that helps make investment decisions.



It outlines the movement of an interest rate as a factor composed of market risk, time, and equilibrium value. The rate tends to revert toward the mean of these factors over time. The model shows where interest rates will end up at the end of a given period of time by considering current market volatility, the long-run mean interest rate value, and a given market risk factor.



The Vasicek interest rate model values the instantaneous interest rate using the following equation:


















d



r


t



=


a


(


b


−



r


t



)


d


t


+


σ


d



W


t

















where:
















W


=


Random market risk (represented by
















a Wiener process)
















t


=


Time period
















a


(


b


−



r


t



)


=


Expected change in the interest rate
















at time 


t


 (the drift factor)
















a


=


Speed of the reversion to the mean
















b


=


Long-term level of the mean
















σ


=


Volatility at time 


t







\begin{aligned} &dr_t = a ( b - r^t ) dt + \sigma dW_t \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &W = \text{Random market risk (represented by}\\ &\text{a Wiener process)} \\ &t = \text{Time period} \\ &a(b-r^t) = \text{Expected change in the interest rate} \\ &\text{at time } t \text{ (the drift factor)} \\ &a = \text{Speed of the reversion to the mean} \\ &b = \text{Long-term level of the mean} \\ &\sigma = \text{Volatility at time } t \\ \end{aligned}


​drt​=a(b−rt)dt+σdWt​where:W=Random market risk (represented bya Wiener process)t=Time perioda(b−rt)=Expected change in the interest rateat time t (the drift factor)a=Speed of the reversion to the meanb=Long-term level of the meanσ=Volatility at time t​



The model specifies that the instantaneous interest rate follows the stochastic differential equation, where d refers to the derivative of the variable following it. In the absence of market shocks (i.e., when dWt = 0) the interest rate remains constant (rt = b). When rt < b, the drift factor becomes positive, which indicates that the interest rate will increase toward equilibrium.






The Vasicek model is often used in the valuation of interest rate futures and may also be used in solving for the price of various hard-to-value bonds.


   Special Considerations  

As mentioned earlier, the Vasicek model is a one- or single-factor short rate model. A single-factor model is one that only recognizes one factor that affects market returns by accounting for interest rates. In this case, market risk is what affects interest rate changes.



This model also accounts for negative interest rates. Rates that dip below zero can help central bank authorities during times of economic uncertainty. Although negative rates aren't commonplace, they have been proven to help central banks manage their economies. For instance, Denmark's central banks lowered interest rates below zero in 2012. European banks followed two years later followed by the Bank of Japan (BOJ), which pushed its interest rate into negative territory in 2016.


   Vasicek Interest Rate Model vs. Other Models  

The Vasicek Interest Rate Model isn't the only one-factor model that exists. The following are some of the other common models:



Merton's Model: This model helps determine the level of a company's credit risk. Analysts and investors can use the Merton Model to find out how positioned the company is to fulfill its financial obligations.
Cox-Ingersoll-Ross Model: This one-factor model also looks at how interest rates are expected to move in the future. The Cox-Ingersoll-Ross Model does so through current volatility, the mean rate, and spreads.
Hull-While Model: The Hull-While Model assumes that volatility will be low when short-term interest rates are near the zero-mark. This is used to price interest rate derivatives.
What Is a Vault Receipt?  

A vault receipt is a legal document given to the owner of a futures contract whose underlying asset is stored in a vault. They are usually used for precious metals such as gold and silver, which are valuable enough to justify storing them in a secured facility.



Vault receipts are an important component of the modern futures markets, because they allow the buyers and sellers of precious metals to avoid making costly physical deliveries. Instead, they can transfer ownership simply by exchanging the vault receipt.





Key Takeaways

A vault receipt is a document issued to owners of futures contracts, particularly those relating to precious metals.It entitles the owner to withdraw or relocate the underlying asset of the contract.Most buyers choose to keep their metals stored in their existing vault, since relocating them is expensive and can prevent the owner from selling the metals on the exchange.


   How Vault Receipts Work  

Commodities futures markets offer a convenient way for buyers and sellers to access commodities in an efficient manner, offering advantages such as liquidity, speed of execution, and reduced counterparty risk. Although some buyers wish to take physical delivery of the commodities they buy, others are content to own the commodities while keeping them stored in a vault or warehouse that is authorized by the commodities exchange.



This approach to owning commodities can prove more cost-effective, because it allows buyers to avoid additional transportation and insurance costs. This is especially common in the case of precious metals, where new owners either have the option of keeping the metals stored at their current facility, or else transferring them to a facility of their choice. If they continue using the current facility, they will need to continue paying the storage fees and other costs. However, transferring to a new facility is usually more expensive because it involves additional transportation.



Most of the time, precious metals are kept in their original exchange-approved warehouse. Aside from the added expense of relocation, another important reason for this is that metals which are removed from the approved warehouse may no longer be eligible to be traded on the futures exchange. If a buyer wants to then reintroduce their bars into the exchange’s warehouse and use them for futures trading purposes, they may need to send the bars back to a refiner to ensure that the bars meet the exchange’s quality standards. Once the metal is back in the warehouse, the exchange would then issue a new vault receipt. As you can imagine, however, these added steps can substantially increase the costs of the precious metals investment.


   Real World Example of a Vault Receipt  

A standard vault receipt will include important details such as the location of the metals, their reference numbers, the name of their owner, any ongoing storage fees associated with the metals, and the date of the receipt. By holding this vault receipt, the designated owner is entitled to withdraw or relocate the metals to another facility, although doing so may prevent them from selling those metals on the exchange.



Oftentimes, the vault receipt will in fact be held by the broker who was responsible for purchasing the futures contract on behalf of the end buyer. The buyer themselves would typically not receive a physical copy of the receipt unless they specifically request one from their broker. This system is similar to the way in which stock brokers often hold shares on behalf of their clients in street name.
What Is a Veblen Good?  

A Veblen good is a good for which demand increases as the price increases due to its exclusive nature and appeal as a status symbol. This runs counter to the prevailing circumstance of demand falling as prices rise. Thus, a Veblen good has an upward-sloping demand curve rather than the typical downward-sloping curve.



A Veblen good is generally a high-quality, coveted product. This stands in contrast to a Giffen good, which also has an upward-sloping curve but is a non-luxury product with no easily available substitutes.





Key Takeaways

A Veblen good is a good for which demand increases as the price increases.Veblen goods are typically high-quality goods that are well made, exclusive, and a status symbol.Veblen goods are generally sought after by affluent consumers who place a premium on the utility of the good.The demand curve for a Veblen good is upward sloping, contrary to a normal demand curve, which is downward sloping.


   Understanding a Veblen Good  

The increase in demand for a Veblen good reflects consumer tastes and preferences, with the higher demand directly attributable to the price increase. The term is named after American economist Thorstein Veblen, who is best known for introducing the term “conspicuous consumption.”



Veblen goods are fairly commonplace, unlike Giffen goods, which are elusive and quite difficult to identify. Very expensive products that are marketed as being “exclusive” or convey the appearance of success, such as designer jewelry, pricey watches, yachts, and luxury cars, can be classified as Veblen goods.



Veblen goods are generally targeted at affluent individuals, have a very strong brand identity that is synonymous with luxury, and are far more likely to be sold in upscale boutiques than in common department stores. For all intents and purposes, a Veblen good is a luxury item that a majority of the population will not or cannot purchase.


   Contradiction to Conventional Market Forces  

Veblen goods contradict the basic law of demand, which states that quantity demanded has an inverse relationship with price. This is due to the appeal of their exclusivity. If the price of a coveted and expensive product is increased, it may actually enhance its attraction to those for whom status is important, as it is now farther out of reach for the average consumer.



However, if the price of such a product is lowered, its reduced exclusivity may result in diminished appeal. This can result in it being shunned by status-conscious consumers while remaining too expensive for the mass market. Overall demand would therefore decline with lower prices instead of increasing.



While no specific price point can be identified as the dividing line between a Veblen good and a normal product, it may be safe to assume that a Veblen good is generally priced exponentially higher than a basic product in the same category. Take the case of watches. Good-quality watches are widely available for less than $100, but to qualify as a Veblen good, a watch would probably carry a four-, five-, or six-digit price tag.


   Veblen Goods vs. Giffen Goods  

As noted above, both Veblen and Giffen goods have an upward-sloping demand curve. This means that demand for them increases when their price increases. Their main difference is in the type of good.



Veblen goods are luxury items that connote status in society, such as cars, yachts, fine wines, celebrity-endorsed perfumes, and designer jewelry.Giffen goods are essential goods, such as rice, potatoes and wheat. Demand stays high when prices increase because there is no ready substitute for them.



There are numerous examples of Veblen goods. Giffen goods, on the other hand, are relatively rare. Some economists even debate whether they exist at all.


   Causes of the Veblen Effect  

Studies indicate that people are happier and receive more utility with the purchase of a Veblen good. This is a result of the good making the individual feel more exclusive and important, secure in the knowledge that they’re purchasing something of high quality that is out of reach for others. Many individuals believe this is worth the premium they pay.



When a good is priced high, consumers generally assume it to be of better quality, even when that is not the case. Many companies source or produce their goods in the same regions or factories, but because of marketing and brand identity, some are sold at a premium. If the price is increased on the same good, consumers may then perceive this as improved quality and be willing to pay the higher price.



Similarly, when a good is perceived as difficult to purchase, an affluent consumer is willing to pay more for it. This is commonly seen in the art world. Paintings from deceased artists, such as Picasso or Monet, fetch millions of dollars because a limited quantity exists. The price does not necessarily reflect the quality of the art; rather, it arises because the artist’s paintings are not readily available.




What is the difference between Veblen and Giffen goods?
The main difference between Veblen and Giffen goods is that the former are luxury items, such as cars, yachts, and designer jewelry, while the latter are non-luxury essentials such as potatoes, rice, and wheat. In both cases, demand will stay high when prices rise. For Veblen goods, that is about exclusivity. For Giffen goods, it is because they are essentials, with no ready substitute.




Are Veblen goods always expensive?
Yes. Veblen goods are always expensive, because price is part of their appeal. The purchasers feel that owning them confers high societal status. In effect, they buy them to show them off, a practice known as “conspicuous consumption.”




Are Veblen goods high- or low-utility goods?
Veblen goods have high utility, because people are purchasing them to feel good about themselves. They are paying a premium for the privilege of owning something of high quality that is out of reach for ordinary people.


   The Bottom Line  

Veblen goods are high-quality, luxury items that people purchase to inflate their self-esteem. The high price is the point, which is why demand for them increases as their price increases. Human nature being what it is, there probably will always be a thriving market for Veblen goods.
What Is VeChain?  

VeChain is a blockchain platform designed to enhance supply chain management and business processes. Its goal is to streamline these processes and information flow for complex supply chains through the use of distributed ledger technology (DLT).



The Vechain platform contains two distinct tokens: VeChain Token (VET) and VeChainThor Energy (VTHO). The former is used to transfer value across VeChain’s network, and the latter is used as energy or "gas" to power smart contract transactions.





Key Takeaways

VeChain is an enterprise blockchain platform that aims to provide a full view of an organization by disintermediating information from data silos.VeChain also plans to become a leading platform for initial coin offerings (ICOs) and for conducting transactions between Internet of Things (IoT) connected devices. VeChain makes use of two tokens: VeChain token (VET) as a value layer and VeChain Thor Energy (VTHO) as a smart contract layer.


   Understanding VeChain  

VeChain states that its goal is “to build a trust-free and distributed business ecosystem platform to enable transparent information flow, efficient collaboration, and high-speed value transfers.



Supply chain data for business processes are currently compartmentalized in silos among multiple stakeholders. This affects information flow, which is again divided among stakeholders.



According to VeChain’s white paper, blockchain technology can break “this asymmetric information problem and allow ownership of data to return to and empower its owner.” The VeChain platform claims to provide a 360-degree view of necessary information linked to a product and its business processes—such as storage, transportation, and supply—to authorized stakeholders and create greater market transparency.


  Examples of How VeChain Can Be Used  

For example, the platform can be used to track quality, authenticity, storage temperature, transportation medium, and last-mile delivery of a medicine pack or an alcohol bottle right from the manufacturing facility through to the final delivery to the end customer. To accomplish this goal, VeChain uses smart chips or Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tags and sensors that broadcast key information onto the blockchain network that can be accessed in real-time by authorized stakeholders.



The application of sensors means that all parameters related to the product can be constantly monitored and problems, if any, can be communicated back to the relevant stakeholders. Manufacturers and customers are informed if a drug packet is stored outside a prescribed temperature range, allowing for service improvements and better quality control.



In another example, the VeChain platform can enable automobile owners to own their data and use it to negotiate better terms and policies with their insurance companies.


   History of VeChain  

VeChain was founded in 2015 by Sunny Lu, the former chief information officer (CIO) of Louis Vuitton China. It started as a subsidiary of Bitse, one of China’s largest blockchain companies, and is among the few blockchains that already have a substantial customer base among established companies.



Initially, the VEN token functioned on the Ethereum blockchain. VeChain transitioned onto its own blockchain and rebranded itself in 2018. As part of the rebrand, the VEN blockchain became the VeChainThor (VET) blockchain.



Goals for the VeChain blockchain platform are outlined in its white paper. Its initial target was to disrupt the supply chain industry by making data actionable and transparent. It also plans to be a leader in dApps and initial coin offerings (ICOs) made using VeChain as well as being an Internet of Things (IoT) intermediary.



VeChain has inked strategic partnerships over the years with several companies in order to help achieve this goal. Among them is an agreement with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) for VeChain's blockchain-powered solutions to be used by the accounting firm's client base to improve product verification and traceability.



VeChain has also partnered with Renault, creating, in conjunction with Microsoft and Viseo, a digital car maintenance book that cannot be tampered with and is the government technology partner for Gui’an, an economic development zone for the Central Chinese Government.


   VeChain's Blockchain Platform  

The VeChainThor blockchain platform is a public blockchain intended for “mass business adoption.” It has two tokens: VET and VTHO. VET is the VeChain token that is used to carry value or “smart money” from smart contracts. In other words, transactions on decentralized applications occurring on VeChain’s blockchain will use VET. It is available for investing by the general public.



The VTHO token stands for VeChainThor Energy and is also known as VeThor Energy. It is used to power transactions on VeChain and is equal to the cost of conducting transactions on its blockchain.



The concept is similar to that of Ethereum’s ether and NEO’s "gas" in that developers need to budget for a certain number of underlying tokens (which are not exposed to the public) in order to conduct transactions for their decentralized applications. Per VeChain’s white paper, the two-token system was devised for effective governance and to have a predictable economic model for decentralized applications developers.



In its current form, Ethereum lacks such a model because the price of ether, its native gas token, is volatile. As such, developers have to estimate the amount of ether required for a transaction. The transaction fails if their estimate turns out to be incorrect. VeChain’s white paper outlines several technical enhancements that its platform has made to overcome this problem.



For example, the VET blockchain allows Proof of Work (PoW) to be conducted for every transaction. This means that the people conducting a transaction can mine more VTHO if their initial estimate was wrong. 


  Governance Protocol  

The VeChainThor blockchain uses Proof of Authority as a consensus protocol. Per this protocol, votes are disbursed based on VET holdings and disclosure. VET holders without know-your customer (KYC) credentials and with 1 million tokens in their account are assigned 20% of all votes while VET holders with KYC and the same amount in their accounts are responsible for 30%.



There are 101 master nodes responsible for reaching consensus on transactions in VeChain’s blockchain. This system is different from Bitcoin, which requires all nodes to vote on a transaction before reaching consensus.



Anonymous nodes are not allowed, and disclosure of identity is an essential pre-requisite to becoming an authority master node. According to VeChain’s white paper, this system uses less power and does not require a minimum number of validators to reach consensus. 



The other type of master node in VeChain is the economic master node. These do not produce blocks or ledger records and are used as a check on power. This is done by allocating a certain number of votes to each economic master node based on their VET holdings. Each 10,000 VET held by an economic master node gets it a single vote.



The system of master nodes centralizes voting rights in a decentralized system. But the founders of VeChain have said that their aim in designing this protocol is to achieve a balance between centralization and decentralization.
What is Vega  

Vega is the measurement of an option's price sensitivity to changes in the volatility of the underlying asset. Vega represents the amount that an option contract's price changes in reaction to a 1% change in the implied volatility of the underlying asset.





Key Takeaways

Vega measures an option price's value relative to changes in implied volatility of an underlying asset.Options that are long have positive Vega while options that are short have negative Vega.


   Basics of Vega  

Volatility measures the amount and speed at which price moves up and down, and can be based on recent changes in price, historical price changes, and expected price moves in a trading instrument. Future-dated options have positive Vega while options that are expiring immediately have negative Vega. The reason for these values are fairly obvious. Option holders tend to assign greater premiums for options expiring in the future than to those which expire immediately.



Vega changes when there are large price movements (increased volatility) in the underlying asset, and falls as the option approaches expiration. Vega is one of a group of Greeks used in options analysis. They are also used by some traders to hedge against implied volatility. If the vega of an option is greater than the bid-ask spread, then the option is said to offer a competitive spread. The opposite is also true. Vega also lets us know how much the price of the option could swing based on changes in the underlying asset's volatility. 


   Implied Volatility  

Vega measures the theoretical price change for each percentage point move in implied volatility. Implied volatility is calculated using an option pricing model that determines what the current market prices are estimating an underlying asset's future volatility to be. Since implied volatility is a projection, it may deviate from actual future volatility.



Just as price moves are not always uniform, neither is vega. Vega changes over time. Therefore, the traders who use it monitor it regularly. As mentioned, options approaching expiration tend to have lower vegas compared to similar options that are further away from expiration


   Example of Vega  

If the vega of an option is greater than the bid-ask spread, then the option is said to offer a competitive spread. The opposite is also true.



Vega also lets us know how much the price of the option could swing based on changes in the underlying asset's volatility.



Assume hypothetical stock ABC is trading at $50 per share in January and a February $52.50 call option has a bid price of $1.50 and an ask price of $1.55. Assume that the vega of the option is 0.25 and the implied volatility is 30%. The call options are offering a competitive spread: the spread is smaller than the vega. That does not mean the option is a good trade, or that it will make the option buyer money. This is just one consideration, as too high of a spread could make getting into and out of trades more difficult or costly. 



If the implied volatility increases to 31%, then the option's bid price and ask price should increase to $1.75 and $1.80, respectively (1 x $0.25 added to bid-ask spread). If the implied volatility decreased by 5%, then the bid price and ask price should theoretically drop to $0.25 by $0.30 (5 x $0.25 = $1.25, which is subtracted from $1.50 and $1.55). Increased volatility makes option prices move expensive, while decreasing volatility makes options drop in price.
What Is Vega Neutral?  

Vega neutral is a method of managing risk in options trading by establishing a hedge against the implied volatility of the underlying asset.



Vega is one of the options Greeks along with delta, gamma, rho and theta. Vega is the Greek that corresponds with the Black-Scholes price factor for volatility, but it represents the sensitivity of the price of an option to volatility and not volatility itself. Options traders will use a vega neutral strategy when they believe that volatility presents a risk to the profits.





Key Takeaways

Vega neutral is a risk management method in options trading that works by establishing a hedge against the implied volatility of the underlying asset.Options traders may use a vega neutral strategy when they believe volatility presents a risk to the profits.Vega corresponds with the Black-Scholes price factor for volatility but represents the sensitivity of the price of an option to volatility and not volatility itself. The Greek letter Vega is one of the "options Greeks," along with delta, gamma, rho, and theta.


   How Vega Neutral Works  

Vega neutral is not as popular as the neutral positions for the other Greeks. Vega essentially tells traders how a 1% change in the implied volatility (IV) of an option affects the price. So vega is a measure of how sensitive the option premium itself is to volatility. A vega neutral position is a way for options traders to remove that sensitivity from their calculations. If a position is vega neutral, it doesn't make or lose money when the implied volatility changes.


   Building a Vega Neutral Portfolio  

The vega of a single position is displayed on all the major trading platforms. To calculate the vega of an options portfolio, you simply sum up the vegas of all the positions. The vega on short positions should be subtracted by the vega on long positions (all weighted by the lots). In a vega neutral portfolio, total vega of all the positions will be zero.


   Example of Vega Neutral  

For example, if an options trader has 100 lots of $100 strike calls that have a vega of $10 each, the trader will look to short the same underlying product to eliminate $1,000 worth of vega—say 200 lots of $110 strike calls with a vega of $5.



This is oversimplifying it, however, as it doesn't take into account different expirations or any other complexities. In fact, if the the options have different expiry dates, it becomes difficult to achieve true vega neutrality because implied volatility will generally not move by the same amount in options with different terms.



The implied volatility term structure shows that most options have a fluctuating IV depending on the expiration month. To deal with the expiration issue, a time-weighted vega can be used with the caveat that it is making a big assumption in that the IV is mainly influenced by the time to expiry.



Similarly, if a trader is seeking to create a vega neutral position with options on different underlying products, they have to be very confident in the degree of correlation between the two underlying products’ IV. 



Vega neutral strategies are usually attempting to profit from the bid-ask spread in implied volatility or the skew between the implied volatility in puts and calls. That said, vega neutral is more often used in combination with other Greeks, as in a delta neutral/vega neutral trade or a long gamma/vega neutral trade.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What is Vehicle Excise Duty  

Vehicle excise duty (VED) is a tax paid for most UK-driven and parked vehicles. VED does not fit the standard definition of a tax levied at the point of manufacture. For cars registered from April 2017 onwards, rates paid in the first year are related to the vehicle's carbon dioxide emissions, though subsequent payments are not.


   BREAKING DOWN Vehicle Excise Duty  
   Origins of Vehicle Excise Duty  

The first UK vehicle tax originated from the 1888 Customs and Inland Revenue Act. The tax limited and controlled the use of cars. The British government introduced the requirement to number and register cars in 1904, and in 1906, the focus shifted to the condition of the roads. In 1909, a new tax based on the power of the car engine was introduced, and its proceeds were used to improve road infrastructure.



The Road Board, a governing body tasked with creating and revising road infrastructure policies, was created in 1910. In 1920, the Road Fund, created by the British Government to pay for the building and maintenance of UK roads, replaced the Road Board. However, the revenue collected from the road fund was often appropriated for other uses. The misappropriation was so vast that the chancellor of the Exchequer, Winston Churchill, called it the “Raid Fund.” From 1937, vehicle excise duties (VED) were paid into the new Consolidated Fund, and the Road Fund served only as an administrator until it closed in 1956.



In the late 1970s, there were discussions about abolishing the VED and increasing fuel tax to cover the shortfall. However, in 1980, the decision was made to retain the vehicle tax.


   The Changing Structure of Vehicle Excise Duty  

In 1997, the government discussed estimating VED on a car’s level of carbon dioxide emission. In the 1999 UK Budget, new cars registered in subsequent years would be classified into one of four vehicle excise duty bands based on their emissions. Some incentives were given within each band for cars using cleaner fuel. The tax on new cars was significantly lower than that on older cars, encouraging the motoring public to purchase newer models. In 2002, 2003, and 2006, they introduced 5th, 6th, and 7th bands. In the 2009 UK Budget, an overhaul of the system was announced, introducing 13 VED bands in which all new cars will be categorized in. 


   Most Recent Developments in VED  

In 2014, the government abolished the previously used paper tax disc, which was required to be displayed on a vehicle’s windscreen. The government announced that there was no need for the discs and that the electronic vehicle register and Automatic Number Plate Recognition could ensure that vehicles were correctly licensed and that VED had been paid.



2017 saw a major overhaul of the vehicle excise duty band and rate configuration, which has resulted in the car tax being substantially higher or lower for certain types of new cars.
What Is the Velocity of Money?  

The velocity of money is a measurement of the rate at which money is exchanged in an economy. It is the number of times that money moves from one entity to another. The velocity of money also refers to how much a unit of currency is used in a given period of time. Simply put, it's the rate at which consumers and businesses in an economy collectively spend money.



The velocity of money is usually measured as a ratio of gross domestic product (GDP) to a country's M1 or M2 money supply. The word velocity is used here to reference the speed at which money changes hands.





Key Takeaways

Velocity of money is a measurement of the rate at which money is exchanged in an economy.The velocity of money equation divides GDP by money supply.The velocity of money formula shows the rate at which one unit of money supply currency is being transacted for goods and services in an economy.The velocity of money is typically higher in expanding economies and lower in contracting economies.


   Understanding the Velocity of Money  

The velocity of money is important for measuring the rate at which money in circulation is being used for purchasing goods and services. It is used to help economists and investors gauge the health and vitality of an economy. High money velocity is usually associated with a healthy, expanding economy. Low money velocity is usually associated with recessions and contractions.



Economists use the velocity of money to measure the rate at which money is used for goods and services in an economy. While it is not necessarily a key economic indicator, it can be followed alongside other key indicators that help determine economic health like GDP, unemployment, and inflation. GDP and the money supply are the two components of the velocity of money formula.



Economies that exhibit a higher velocity of money relative to others tend to be more developed. The velocity of money is also known to fluctuate with business cycles. When an economy is in an expansion, consumers and businesses tend to more readily spend money causing the velocity of money to increase. When an economy is contracting, consumers and businesses are usually more reluctant to spend and the velocity of money is lower.



Since the velocity of money is typically correlated with business cycles, it can also be correlated with key indicators. Therefore, the velocity of money will usually rise with GDP and inflation. Alternatively, it is usually expected to fall when key economic indicators like GDP and inflation are falling in a contracting economy.


   Example of Velocity of Money  

Consider an economy consisting of two individuals, A and B, who each have $100 of money in cash. Individual A buys a car from individual B for $100. Now B has $200 in cash money. Then B purchases a home from A for $100 and B enlists A's help in adding new construction to their home and for their efforts, B pays A another $100. Individual A now has $200 in cash. Individual B then sells a car to A for $100 and both A and B end up with $100 in cash. Thus, both parties in the economy have made transactions worth $400, even though they only possessed $100 each.



In this economy, the velocity of money would be two (2) resulting from the $400 in transactions divided by the $200 in money supply. This multiplication in the value of goods and services exchanged is made possible through the velocity of money in an economy.


   The Velocity of Money Formula  

While the above provides a simplified example of the velocity of money, the velocity of money is used on a much larger scale as a measure of transactional activity for an entire country’s population. In general, this measure can be thought of as the turnover of the money supply for an entire economy.



For this application, economists typically use GDP and either M1 or M2 for the money supply. Therefore, the velocity of money equation is written as GDP divided by money supply.








Velocity of Money


=



GDP


Money Supply




\text{Velocity of Money} = \frac{ \text{GDP} }{ \text{Money Supply} }


Velocity of Money=Money SupplyGDP​



GDP is usually used as the numerator in the velocity of money formula though gross national product (GNP) may also be used as well. GDP represents the total amount of goods and services in an economy that are available for purchase. In the denominator, economists will typically identify money velocity for both M1 and M2.



M1 is defined by the Federal Reserve as the sum of all currency held by the public and transaction deposits at depository institutions. M2 is a broader measure of money supply, adding in savings deposits, time deposits, and real money market mutual funds. As well, the St. Louis Federal Reserve tracks the quarterly velocity of money using both M1 and M2.


   Velocity of Money and the Economy  

There are differing views among economists as to whether the velocity of money is a useful indicator of the health of an economy or, more specifically, inflationary pressures. The "monetarists" who subscribe to the quantity theory of money argue that money velocity should be stable absent changing expectations, but a change in money supply can alter expectations and therefore money velocity and inflation.



For example, an increase in the money supply should theoretically lead to a commensurate increase in prices because there is more money chasing the same level of goods and services in the economy. The opposite should happen with a decrease in money supply. Critics, on the other hand, argue that in the short term, the velocity of money is highly variable, and prices are resistant to change, resulting in a weak and indirect link between money supply and inflation.



Empirically, data suggests that the velocity of money is indeed variable. Moreover, the relationship between money velocity and inflation is also variable. For example, from 1959 through the end of 2007, the velocity of M2 money stock averaged approximately 1.9x with a maximum of 2.198x in 1997 and a minimum of 1.653x in 1964.















Velocity of M2 Money Supply.
St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank



Since 2007, the velocity of money has fallen dramatically as the Federal Reserve greatly expanded its balance sheet in an effort to combat the global financial crisis and deflationary pressures.



Money velocity appeared to have bottomed out at 1.435 in the second quarter of 2017 and was gradually rising until the global recession triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic spurred massive U.S. Federal economic stimulus. At the end of the second quarter of 2020, the M2V was 1.100, the lowest reading of M2 money velocity in history.


   Factors Affecting the Velocity of Money  

There are several factors that can affect the velocity of money in an economy. These include:



Money supply: the velocity of money is inversely related to the supply of money. When the supply of money is increased by the central bank, the pace of economic transactions also increases. This can potentially lead to inflation. Consumer behavior: velocity is also affected by the behavior of economic actors. When consumers prioritize saving rather than spending, the pace of transactions slows and the velocity of money declines. When consumers prioritize spending, the velocity of money speeds up. Payment systems: The velocity of money is also affected by features of the monetary system, such as the availability of credit or electronic banking. When there are few barriers to transactions, the velocity of money tends to increase; when it is difficult to spend money, it decreases. 


   Why Is the Velocity of Money Slowing Down?  

The velocity of the M1 money supply has steadily decreased since the recession of 2008, according to figures from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.



Much of that decline has been attributed to demographic changes and the effects of the Great Recession. With baby boomers approaching retirement and household wealth greatly reduced, many consumers were more incentivized towards saving than before.



Federal regulations may have also played a role, as the Dodd-Frank Act increased the reserve requirements and leverage ratios for banks. Because these institutions were required to keep more of their assets, rather than lend or spend them, there was less money to move in the economy.



One factor in the slowing velocity of money is not a mystery: the COVID-19 pandemic. The velocity of money fell sharply in 2020, likely due to the increased economic uncertainty combined with the influx of stimulus payments.




What Does Velocity of Money Measure?
The velocity of money estimates the movement of money in an economy—in other words, the number of times the average dollar changes hands over a single year. A high velocity of money indicates a bustling economy with strong economic activity, while a low velocity indicates a general reluctance to spend money.




How Do You Calculate the Velocity of Money?
The velocity of money is calculated by dividing a country's gross domestic product by the total supply of money. This calculation can use either the M1 money supply, which includes physical currency, checkable deposits, and certain other figures, or the M2 supply, which also includes savings deposits and money market funds.




Why Is the Velocity of Money So Low?
The velocity of money in the United States fell sharply during the first and second quarters of 2020, as calculated by the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank. While there is no definitive explanation, the fall is likely due to the diminished activity incurred during the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as an increase in consumer savings due to economic uncertainty.


   The Bottom Line  

The velocity of money represents the heartbeat of an economy. It measures how quickly money changes hands from one transaction to another. During times of prosperity, the velocity of money tends to be high, indicating bustling activity and frequent transactions. During an economic downturn, the velocity slows, indicating that consumers are less willing to spend money or make transactions.
What Is a Vendor?  

A vendor is a party in the supply chain that makes goods and services available to companies or consumers. The term "vendor" is typically used to describe the entity that is paid for goods provided rather than the manufacturer of the goods itself. However, a vendor can operate as both a supplier (or seller) of goods and a manufacturer.





Key Takeaways

A vendor is a general term for anyone who buys and sells goods or services.A vendor purchases products and services and then sells them to another company or individual.Large retailers, like Target, rely on many different vendors to supply products, which it buys at wholesale prices and sells at higher retail prices.A manufacturer that turns raw materials into finished goods is a vendor for retailers or wholesalers.


   How Vendors Work  

A vendor, also known as a supplier, is a person or a business entity that sells something. A vendor generally finds somewhere to purchase their goods and services. After acquiring the necessary items, the vendor markets and sells their wares through whichever method works best for them. For example, if it is a food truck, the vendor ensures there are enough supplies to make items on the menu and feed an expected number of customers, then drives to a target area and begins selling food.


  Vendor/Supplier  

Some large retail store chains, such as Target and Walmart, generally have a list of vendors from which they purchase goods at wholesale prices. In turn, they then sell the goods at retail prices to their customers. A vendor that supplies one of these large stores would need a much larger operation to plan for, acquire, and provide the goods and services they are contracted for.


  B2B  

Many vendors act as business-to-business (B2B) sales organizations that provide parts of a product to another business to make an end product. For example, if your small business made widgets out of gadgets, you'd need to find vendors with all the gadgets you need. You might find one vendor that has them all or would need to find multiple vendors to assemble your widgets.



In turn, you could sell your widgets on an online retailer platform, becoming a vendor yourself.


  Services  

Some vendors provide services for entities of all sizes and levels. For example, a human resources department of a large company might plan a holiday party for its employees. Many hire outside vendors to supply goods and services for the event. Sometimes, the event is too large to be held in buildings owned by the business, so the department must choose a location, in which case the event space owner becomes a vendor when the area is reserved and the contract signed.






States require most vendors to be licensed. If you're considering becoming a vendor or using one, ensure you check with your state licensing office to learn about the requirements.



After that, the human resources department reaches out to decorators, which become vendors when they are hired to transform the event space into a themed party. After the theme is implemented, a catering company is contracted to provide food and beverages for the party. When the company delivers its service, it becomes a vendor to the company hosting the party.


   Types of Vendors  

There are several types of vendors, but in general, they all fall into one or two of four categories:



Manufacturer: Manufacturers turn raw materials into finished goods and sell them to wholesalers and retailers.
Retailer: Retailers are companies that buy products from other vendors and sell them to consumers. For example, Target is a vendor that sells home appliances and other home products.
Wholesaler: Wholesalers generally buy products in bulk quantities and sell them to retailers. Some wholesalers sell directly to consumers—these are typically known as wholesaler-retailers.
Service Provider: Service providers offer services to businesses and consumers.


   Special Considerations  

Vendors are found throughout the supply chain, which is the sum of all individuals, organizations, resources, activities, and technologies used to manufacture and sell a product or service. The supply chain starts with the production and delivery of raw source materials. It ends with the sale and final delivery of the product.



Manufacturers and retailers try to eliminate as much of the supply chain as possible, as they know that the final cost of a product increases with each link in the supply chain. Typically, the supply chain consists of three parts: a manufacturer, a seller, and a reseller or, as they are more commonly known, a retailer. Vendors can be cheaper than a traditional supply chain because some of the links in the chain are bypassed.




What Is a Vendor?
A vendor is an entity that sells something. It can sell services, products, or a combination of the two to businesses and consumers.




What Is an Example of a Vendor?
Amazon, while primarily known for being an online retailer, is also a web service provider. It provides web hosting, database storage, and many more services businesses need, which are too expensive for many small businesses to buy and maintain.




What Is a Vendor vs. Supplier?
Suppliers are generally the first supply chain entity where products and services originate. A vendor purchases products and services and resells them to clients.


   The Bottom Line  

Vendors are entities that purchase goods and services and resell them to business clients and consumers. You find vendors throughout many business models because paying a vendor is sometimes cheaper than buying directly from a supplier.



Vendors can be businesses of any size, from a one-person hotdog stand on the sidewalk to a large vendor that stocks warehouse retailers.
What Is Vendor Financing?  

Vendor financing is a financial term that describes the lending of money by a vendor to a customer who uses that capital to purchase that specific vendor's product or service offerings.



Sometimes called "trade credit," vendor financing usually takes the form of deferred loans from the vendor. It may also include a transfer of stock shares from the borrowing company to the vendor. Such loans typically carry higher interest rates than those associated with traditional bank loans.





Key Takeaways

Vendor financing is a term describing the lending of money by a vendor to a business owner, who, in turn, employs that capital to buy that same vendor's products or services. Vendor financing deals often carry higher interest rates than those imposed by traditional lending institutions. Vendor financing helps cement the relationships between vendors and business owners.Vendors engaged in this practice may include payroll management facilitators, security firms, and other service providers.


   Understanding Vendor Financing  

Vendor financing helps business owners purchase essential goods or services without requiring those owners to secure traditional bank loans or pledge their personal assets as collateral. Vendor financing offers numerous other advantages. Not only does it help loan recipients cultivate strong credit histories, but it also allows them to table the use of bank financing until it becomes abundantly necessary to make revenue-boosting capital improvements.



Vendor financing most commonly occurs when a vendor sees a higher value in a customer's business than a traditional lending institution does. Consequently, a healthy, trusting relationship between the borrower and the vendor sits at the heart of the vendor financing dynamic.



From the perspective of the vendor, while it's certainly not an ideal situation to provide products or services without immediately receiving payment, making a sale with delayed payment is better than making no sale at all. On the upside, the vendor collects interest on the deferred payments. Furthermore, by offering vendor financing programs, a vendor can win a competitive advantage over rival firms. This arm or unit of the vendor's business is known as an investment center and is regularly reviewed to ensure it is profitable.


   Vendor Financing Types  

Vendor financing can be structured with either debt or equity instruments. In debt vendor financing, the borrower agrees to pay a particular price for inventory with an agreed-upon interest charge. The sum is either repaid over time or written off as a bad debt. With equity vendor financing, the vendor can provide goods in exchange for an agreed-upon amount of company stock.



Equity vendor financing is more common with startup businesses, which often use a form of vendor-supplied financing known as "inventory financing," which essentially uses inventory as collateral to back lines of credit or short-term loans.






In business, the use of credit in vendor finance is called an "open account."



Vendor financing can also be used when individuals lack the capital needed to buy a business outright. A vendor may rely on the sales it makes to a particular business, to make its own financial targets. And by providing financing in the form of a loan, it can secure the business, while strengthening the relationship with the business owner, to make sure it thrives over the long haul.


   Various Vendor Types  

Vendors can take many forms, including payroll management outfits, security firms, maintenance organizations, and other service providers. Business-to-business suppliers, such as office equipment manufacturers are common providers of vendor financing. Materials and parts suppliers likewise frequently engage in vendor financing activities.
What Is a Vendor Note?  

A vendor note is a short-term loan a vendor makes to a customer that is secured by goods the customer buys from the vendor. A vendor note is classified as a form of "vendor finance" or "vendor financing," which is a type of lending that usually takes the form of a deferred loan made by a vendor. Vendor notes are most likely to be employed when a vendor has more confidence in a customer's business prospects than a traditional lender (a bank) would.





Key Takeaways

A vendor note is a short-term loan a seller makes to a customer that is backed up by products that the customer buys from the vendor.This type of deal is called a deferred loan and is often used when a company is unable to borrow the amount of capital it wants from more traditional lenders.These types of loans often have a higher rate of default than those offered by most banks, and therefore offer a higher rate of interest to compensate the vendors for the risk of defaulting on those loans.Vendor note loans are often secured by the inventory being sold to the buyer but may also be backed by pledges of the buyer's business assets or cash flow.Vendor notes vary in terms of the length of time before maturity, but it typically takes three to five years to reach total maturity.


   Understanding Vendor Notes  

Vendor notes can be a useful and convenient form of financing, particularly when well-established vendors with diverse customer bases are taking on new, smaller buyers who typically have small amounts of working capital with which to purchase inventory or essential goods.



In some cases, customers may be entirely dependent on vendor note financing to secure vital inventory or equipment. The use of such vendor financing can make it easier for a company to increase sales volume and revenue, but in doing so it also incurs the risk of the buyers it finances not paying back their loans.



Vendor note loans are often secured by the inventory being sold to the buyer but may also be backed by pledges of the buyer's business assets or cash flow. The use of a vendor note will generally denote a good relationship between vendor and customer.


   Terms of Vendor Notes  

Vendor notes vary in terms of their time to maturity, but notes with time horizons in the range of three to five years are considered common. Many different types of terms and conditions can be built into a vendor note, such as limitations on the types of business practices the buyer can engage in, restrictions on acquiring other inventory or business assets, and requirements that specific financial ratios or benchmarks be maintained.



While vendor notes tend to amount to deferred loans, sometimes there may be an interest charge on the borrowed sum (the value of goods that has changed hands). While vendors would doubtlessly prefer to be paid immediately for goods or services they render, maintaining a relationship by helping with financing and being paid back over time (sometimes with interest) is better than no sale at all.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Vendor Notes  

Depending on the inventory or equipment you plan on buying, vendor notes, or vendor financing in general, come with some advantages and disadvantages. It's important to make sure whether vendor financing or a traditional bank loan will be a better option for your business.



One of the primary advantages of a vendor note is purchasing equipment at a good value. Many vendors have in-house financing departments that offer customers discounts on the items they need for their business. As the product and financing are coming directly from the manufacturer, the deal you receive may be better than you'd find elsewhere, making it an attractive option.



Another strong selling point of a vendor note is the ease of obtaining the purchase and financing simultaneously. A manufacturer wants to make the sale and understands the product, provided the financing for them is straightforward. A bank, on the other hand, will have to evaluate the manufacturer, the product being sold, and the buyer, which is a much longer process.






There are generally two types of vendor financing: debt financing, such as a vendor note, and equity financing, where the vendor receives stock or equity in the business.



Obtaining financing directly from the vendor also typically comes with lower upfront costs and it is easier to update your equipment over time since you are dealing directly with the manufacturer.



One of the main disadvantages of vendor notes is if the vendor does not have an in-house financing department and you have to deal with a third-party non-bank financing entity. If this entity is not familiar with the vendor or the equipment, it may charge a higher interest rate or finance only a small portion of the cost.



In addition, if you are purchasing used equipment, the costs may also be higher because the manufacturer incentives no longer apply, and the vendor will take that into consideration when pricing the financing.



Lastly, some vendors will only provide financing for the equipment but not include any other terms that may benefit your business, including transportation and training costs.





Pros

Discounts on purchases
Ease of obtaining purchase and financing simultaneously
Lower upfront costs
Simpler to update equipment



Cons

Higher costs via third-party financing
Purchasing old equipment may be more costly
Less coverage in financing terms





   Example of a Vendor Note  

A new medical office buyer wants to acquire a laser device used for special outpatient surgeries at a cost of $1,000,000. It has just $100,000 to spend. Rather than going to a lender to ask for a business loan, a medical device vendor will offer the piece of equipment to the customer under the agreement that the medical office buyer pays back the $900,000 balance of the medical device over a period of five years at an interest rate of 2%.



As such, the vendor will carry a note until the $900,000 is repaid. The buyer gets the device, which will add a revenue stream, the seller gets a sale and pockets the interest on the loan. It may also get follow-on business from the buyer.




What Is Vendor Financing?
Vendor financing is financing that a business obtains directly from the vendor when purchasing inventory or equipment. Vendor financing stands in contrast to traditional methods of financing, such as obtaining a loan from a bank. Vendor financing is often a deferred loan and can lead to building a strong relationship between a vendor and a customer.




Are Vendor Notes Subordinated Debt?
Vendor notes are subordinated debt, meaning they sit below senior debt in the repayment waterfall in the event of bankruptcy. Holders of subordinated debt are always paid after holders of senior debt are paid off.




What Is a Vendor Loan Agreement?
A vendor loan agreement is a financing agreement between a vendor and a buyer in which the vendor agrees to provide capital to the buyer for the purchase of the vendor's product. The buyer will pay an upfront cost, and the remainder of the cost, plus interest, will be paid over time or at a later date in the future. The vendor loan agreement lays out all of the terms of the financing arrangement, such as the parties to the agreement, the amount financed, the time to maturity, and the interest rate.




What Happens If You Default on a Vendor Note?
The repercussions of defaulting on a vendor note can vary depending on the arrangement and the terms of the vendor loan agreement. The vendor can repossess the inventory or equipment that was sold, as well as other assets of the business to recoup its losses. The vendor may also be entitled to future cash flows of the business.


   The Bottom Line  

A vendor note can be a good option for a business seeking to obtain inventory or equipment. It is a particularly good option for a new business that does not have significant levels of cash or credit history to obtain a traditional bank loan. Vendor notes also establish a relationship between the vendor and a business that could be profitable to both in the future.



Choosing a vendor note or traditional bank loan will depend on what is best for your business, so it is important to weigh the pros and cons of each before making a commitment.
What Is a Vendor Take-Back Mortgage?  

A vendor take-back mortgage is a unique kind of mortgage where the seller of the home extends a loan to the buyer to secure the sale of the property. Sometimes referred to as a seller take-back mortgage, this type of loan can benefit both the buyer and the seller. The buyer might be able to purchase property above his bank-determined financing limit, and the seller can get his property sold.





Key Takeaways

A vendor take-back mortgage happens when the seller of the home extends a loan to the buyer for some portion of the sales price. The seller retains equity in the home and continues to own a percentage equal to the amount of loan until the vendor take-back mortgage is paid in full. Both types of mortgages can be subject to foreclosure in the event of the borrower's default on the loan terms. 


   Understanding Vendor Take-Back Mortgages  

Most buyers already have a primary source of funding through a financial institution when they enter into this type of arrangement, so a vendor take-back mortgage is often a second lien on the property.



The seller retains equity in the home and continues to own a percentage of its value equal to the amount of loan. This dual possession continues until the buyer pays off the original amount plus interest. The second lien serves to guarantee the repayment of the loan. The seller can seize the property that's the subject of the lien if the obligation isn't satisfied.






Sellers benefit from vendor take-back mortgages because they can generate extra income from the interest on the loan.


   Vendor Take-Back Mortgage vs. Traditional Mortgage  

A vendor take-back mortgage most often occurs in conjunction with a traditional mortgage, in which a homebuyer pledges her house to the bank as collateral for the loan. The bank then has a claim on the house should the home buyer default on the mortgage. In the case of a foreclosure, the bank can evict the home's occupants and sell the house, using the income from the sale to clear the mortgage debt, as can the seller or second lienholder in the case of a vendor take-back mortgage.



The most common form of traditional mortgage is the fixed-rate mortgage, in which the borrower pays the same interest rate for the life of the loan. Most fixed-rate mortgages have between a 10-year and 30-year term, during which the borrower's payment, including interest, won't change if market interest rates rise. The borrower might be able to secure a lower rate by refinancing the mortgage if market interest rates drop significantly after the time of purchase.







In order to get the lowest interest rate, it is important to shop around and find the best mortgage lender. Several factors can affect your interest rate on a traditional mortgage, from your credit history to how much of a down payment you put down to where your property is located.



Likewise, several factors will affect the interest rate you'll pay on a vendor take-back mortgage, including how much of a loan you're asking the seller to carry. The rate will often be higher when the seller's mortgage is the second lien on the property, compensating him for the risk he's taking.


   Example of a Vendor Take-Back Mortgage  

Jane Doe is purchasing her first home for $400,000. She's required to make a down payment to a fixed-rate mortgage lender of 20%, or $80,000, but she accepts a vendor take-back mortgage instead of paying this amount herself.



The seller lends Jane $40,000 toward the mortgage down payment and agrees to pay $40,000 himself. This single property now has two separate loans. One is the fixed-rate mortgage with the financial institution for $320,000. The second is the vendor take-back mortgage for $80,000.



The fixed-rate mortgage is secured with the home as collateral, while the take-back mortgage is collateralized by a lien on the home. In the event of default, the bank can foreclose on the home and use proceeds from the sale to satisfy the unpaid debts.




What's the Difference Between a Vendor Take-Back Mortgage and a Regular Mortgage?
A vendor take-back mortgage is borrowed from the original owner of a property, rather than a bank or other mortgage lender. This means that the seller retains partial ownership of the home or property until the loan is paid off.




What Are the Advantages of a Vendor Take-Back Mortgage?
A vendor take-back mortgage allows people to buy property that they would not otherwise be able to afford, a transaction that works to the benefit of both buyer and seller.




What Are the Disadvantages of a Vendor Take-Back Mortgage?
For buyers, the main disadvantage of a vendor take-back mortgage is that the interest rates tend to be higher than a traditional mortgage. Because the seller's lien is subordinate to the primary lender, the seller typically charges a higher interest rate to compensate for their greater level of risk.


   The Bottom Line  

A vendor take-back mortgage is a lending vehicle where the owner of a property lends a buyer part of the purchase cost. This allows people to buy homes that they would not otherwise afford, but it does come with a degree of risk (for the seller) and higher interest rates (for the buyer).
What Is a Venn Diagram?  

A Venn diagram is an illustration that uses circles to show the relationships among things or finite groups of things. Circles that overlap have a commonality while circles that do not overlap do not share those traits.



Venn diagrams help to visually represent the similarities and differences between two concepts. They have long been recognized for their usefulness as educational tools. Since the mid-20th century, Venn diagrams have been used as part of the introductory logic curriculum and in elementary-level educational plans around the world.





Key Takeaways

A Venn diagram uses circles that overlap or don't overlap to show the commonalities and differences among things or groups of things.Things that have commonalities are shown as overlapping circles while things that are distinct stand alone.Venn diagrams are now used as illustrations in business and in many academic fields. 


   Understanding Venn Diagrams  

Venn diagrams are useful for illustrating how different concepts or factors intersect with one another. They can show, at a glance, how things are similar or different and where and how they overlap. Often, the center of a Venn diagram (the intersection of two or more circles) represents some nexus or main idea that can be decomposed into the various other circles, with labels on the outer portions more general and distinct ideas than those toward the center.



The overlapping areas can also be used to show where two otherwise disparate contexts share commonalities. For instance, in the example diagram below we see that while the urban and rural contexts are distinct with their own set of acivities, they also do share sporting events.















Venn Diagram (click to enlarge).
Grace Fleming


  Venn Diagram Components  

While there are many ways to organize a Venn diagram, they most often consist of overlapping circles. Each circle by itself represents a set, which may include ideas, concepts, numbers, or objects.



When circles overlap or intersect, those sub-sets that are shared are known as a union or intersection. Areas that don't overlap show differences between sets, and a complement set refers to everything not shared by a particular set or sub-set.


   The History and Origin of Venn Diagrams  

The English logician John Venn popularized the diagram in the 1880s. He called them Eulerian circles after the Swiss mathematician Leonard Euler, who created similar diagrams in the 1700s.



The term Venn diagram did not appear until 1918 when Clarence Lewis, an American academic philosopher and the eventual founder of conceptual pragmatism, referred to the circular depiction as the Venn diagram in his book A Survey of Symbolic Logic.



Venn studied and taught logic and probability theory at Cambridge University, where he developed his method of using diagrams to illustrate the branch of mathematics known as set theory. He published a precedent-setting work, The Logic of Chance, which explained the frequency theory of probability. In it, he argued that probability, contrary to popular assumption, should be established based on the regularity with which something is predicted to occur. In another book, Symbolic Logic, Venn built on and developed mathematician George Boole’s theories on algebra. This work helped him develop the Venn diagram.






Venn diagrams have been used since the mid-20th century in classrooms from the elementary school level to introductory logic.


   Applications for Venn Diagrams  

Venn diagrams are used to depict how items relate to each other against an overall backdrop, universe, data set, or environment. A Venn diagram could be used, for example, to compare two companies within the same industry by illustrating the products both companies offer (where circles overlap) and the products that are exclusive to each company (outer circles). 



Venn diagrams are, at a basic level, simple pictorial representations of the relationship that exists between two sets of things. However, they can be much more complex. Still, the streamlined purpose of the Venn diagram to illustrate concepts and groups has led to their popularized use in many fields, including statistics, linguistics, logic, education, computer science, and business.


   Examples of Venn Diagrams  

A Venn diagram could be drawn to illustrate fruits that come in red or orange colors. Below, we can see that there are orange fruits (circle B) such as persimmons and tangerines while apples and cherries (circle A) come in red colors. Peppers and tomatoes come in both red and orange colors, as represented by the overlapping area of the two circles.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020



You might also draw a Venn diagram to help decide which of two cars to purchase. The Venn diagram shows the features that are exclusive to each car and the features that both cars have.



Below, we see that Car A is a sedan that's powered by gasoline and gets 20 miles per gallon, while Car B is a hybrid, gets 40 miles-per-gallon for mileage, and is a hatchback.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020



The shaded region where the two circles overlap shows the features that both cars have in common, which include a radio, four doors, Bluetooth capability, and airbags.



The Venn diagram graphically conveys the similarities and differences between the two cars to help decide which to purchase.




What Is a Venn Diagram in Math?
A Venn diagram in math is used in logic theory and set theory to show various sets or data and their relationship with each other.




How Do You Read a Venn Diagram?
A Venn diagram is read by observing all of the circles that make up the entire diagram. Each circle is its own item or data set. The portions of the circles that overlap indicate the areas that are in common amongst the different items whereas the parts that do not overlap indicate unique traits among the item or data set represented by the circle.




Why Are They Called Venn Diagrams?
They are called Venn diagrams because the diagram was developed by John Venn, an English logician.




What Is the Middle of a Venn Diagram Called?
The middle of a Venn diagram where two or more sets overlap is known as the intersection.




Does a Venn Diagram Always Use 2 or 3 Circles?
While often employing a pair or triplet of circles, Venn diagram can use any number of circles (or any other shape) to show the differences and intersections of different sets.
What Is Venture Capital (VC)?  

Venture capital (VC) is a form of private equity and a type of financing that investors provide to startup companies and small businesses that are believed to have long-term growth potential. Venture capital generally comes from well-off investors, investment banks, and any other financial institutions. Venture capital doesn't always have to be money. In fact, it often comes as technical or managerial expertise. VC is typically allocated to small companies with exceptional growth potential or to those that grow quickly and appear poised to continue to expand.





Key Takeaways

Venture capital is a term used to describe financing that is provided to companies and entrepreneurs.Venture capitalists can provide backing through capital financing, technological expertise, and/or managerial experience.VC can be provided at different stages of their evolution, although it often involves early and seed round funding.Venture capital funds manage pooled investments in high-growth opportunities in startups and other early-stage firms and are typically only open to accredited investors.Venture capital evolved from a niche activity at the end of the Second World War into a sophisticated industry with multiple players that play an important role in spurring innovation.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Venture Capital (VC)  

As noted above, VC provides financing to startups and small companies that investors believe have great growth potential. Financing typically comes in the form of private equity (PE) and may also come as some form of expertise, such as technical or managerial experience.



VC deals generally involve the creation of large ownership chunks of a company, which are sold to a few investors through independent limited partnerships. These relationships are established by venture capital firms and may consist of a pool of several similar enterprises.



One important difference between venture capital and other private equity deals, however, is that venture capital tends to focus on emerging companies seeking substantial funds for the first time, while PE tends to fund larger, more established companies that are seeking an equity infusion or a chance for company founders to transfer some of their ownership stakes.



The potential for above-average returns is often what attracts venture capitalists despite the risk. For new companies or ventures with limited operating history (under two years), VC is increasingly becoming a popular and essential source for raising money, especially if they lack access to capital markets, bank loans, or other debt instruments. The main downside is that the investors usually get equity in the company, and, thus, a say in company decisions.


   History of Venture Capital  

Venture capital is a subset of private equity. While the roots of PE can be traced back to the 19th century, VC only developed as an industry after the Second World War.



Harvard Business School professor Georges Doriot is generally considered the "Father of Venture Capital." He started the American Research and Development Corporation in 1946 and raised a $3.58 million fund to invest in companies that commercialized technologies developed during WWII.



The corporation's first investment was in a company that had ambitions to use x-ray technology for cancer treatment. The $200,000 that Doriot invested turned into $1.8 million when the company went public in 1955.


  Hit From the 2007-2008 Financial Crisis  

The VC industry was impacted by the 2007-2008 financial crisis. Venture capitalists and other institutional investors, who were an important source of capital for many startups and small companies, tightened their purse strings.



Things changed after the end of the Great Recession with the emergence of the unicorn. A unicorn is a private startup whose value is over $1 billion. These companies began attracting a diverse pool of investors seeking big returns in a low-interest-rate environment, including sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) and major PE firms. Their entry resulted in changes to the venture capital ecosystem.


  Westward Expansion  

Although it was mainly funded by banks located in the Northeast, VC became concentrated on the West Coast after the growth of the tech ecosystem. Fairchild Semiconductor, which was started by eight engineers (the "traitorous eight") from William Shockley's Semiconductor Laboratory, is generally considered the first technology company to receive VC funding. It was funded by east coast industrialist Sherman Fairchild of Fairchild Camera & Instrument Corp.



Arthur Rock, an investment banker at Hayden, Stone & Co. in New York City, helped facilitate that deal and subsequently started one of the first VC firms in Silicon Valley. Davis & Rock funded some of the most influential technology companies, including Intel and Apple. By 1992, 48% of all investment dollars went into West Coast companies; Northeast Coast industries accounted for just 20%.



According to Pitchbook and National Venture Capital Association, the situation has not changed much. During 2022, West Coast companies accounted for more than 37% of all deals (but about 48% of deal value) while the Mid-Atlantic region saw just around 24% of all deals (and approximately 18% of all deal value).





$160 billion

The amount American VC-backed companies raised in 2022.


  Help From Regulations  

A series of regulatory innovations further helped popularize venture capital as a funding avenue:



The first one was a change in the Small Business Investment Act (SBIC) in 1958. It boosted the VC industry by providing tax breaks to investors. In 1978, the Revenue Act was amended to reduce the capital gains tax from 49% to 28%.
Then, in 1979, a change in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) allowed pension funds to invest up to 10% of their assets in small or new businesses. This move led to a flood of investments from rich pension funds.
The capital gains tax was further reduced to 20% in 1981.



These three developments catalyzed growth in VC and the 1980s turned into a boom period for venture capital, with funding levels reaching $4.9 billion in 1987. The dot-com boom also brought the industry into sharp focus as venture capitalists chased quick returns from highly-valued internet companies.



According to some estimates, funding levels during that period went as high as $30 billion. But the promised returns did not materialize as several publicly-listed internet companies with high valuations crashed and burned their way to bankruptcy.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Venture Capital  

Venture capital provides funding to new businesses that do not have access to stock markets and do not have enough cash flow to take on debts. This arrangement can be mutually beneficial because businesses get the capital they need to bootstrap their operations, and investors gain equity in promising companies.



There are also other benefits to a VC investment. In addition to investment capital, VCs often provide mentoring services to help new companies establish themselves, and provide networking services to help them find talent and advisors. A strong VC backing can be leveraged into further investments.



On the other hand, a business that accepts VC support can lose creative control over its future direction. VC investors are likely to demand a large share of company equity, and they may start making demands of the company's management as well. Many VCs are only seeking to make a fast, high-return payoff and may pressure the company for a quick exit.





Pros

Provides early-stage companies with capital to bootstrap operations
Companies don't need cash flow or assets to secure VC funding
VC-backed mentoring and networking services help new companies secure talent and growth



Cons

Demand a large share of company equity
Companies may find themselves losing creative control as investors demand immediate returns
VCs may pressure companies to exit investments rather than pursue long-term growth





   Types of Venture Capital  

Venture capital can be broadly divided according to the growth stage of the company receiving the investment. Generally speaking, the younger a company is, the greater the risk for investors.



The stages of VC investment are:



Pre-Seed: This is the earliest stage of business development when the founders try to turn an idea into a concrete business plan. They may enroll in a business accelerator to secure early funding and mentorship.Seed Funding: This is the point where a new business seeks to launch its first product. Since there are no revenue streams yet, the company will need VCs to fund all of its operations.Early-Stage Funding: Once a business has developed a product, it will need additional capital to ramp up production and sales before it can become self-funding. The business will then need one or more funding rounds, typically denoted incrementally as Series A, Series B, etc.


   Venture Capital vs. Angel Investors  

For small businesses, or for up-and-coming businesses in emerging industries, venture capital is generally provided by high net-worth individuals (HNWIs)—also often known as angel investors—and venture capital firms. The National Venture Capital Association is an organization composed of hundreds of venture capital firms that offer to fund innovative enterprises.



Angel investors are typically a diverse group of individuals who have amassed their wealth through a variety of sources. However, they tend to be entrepreneurs themselves, or recently retired executives from the business empires they've built.



Self-made investors providing VC typically share several key characteristics. The majority look to invest in well-managed companies, that have a fully-developed business plan and are poised for substantial growth. These investors are also likely to offer to fund ventures that are involved in the same or similar industries or business sectors with which they are familiar. If they haven't worked in that field, they might have had academic training in it. Another common occurrence among angel investors is co-investing, in which one angel investor funds a venture alongside a trusted friend or associate, often another angel investor.


   The Venture Capital Process  

The first step for any business looking for venture capital is to submit a business plan, either to a venture capital firm or to an angel investor. If interested in the proposal, the firm or the investor must then perform due diligence, which includes a thorough investigation of the company's business model, products, management, and operating history, among other things.



Since venture capital tends to invest larger dollar amounts in fewer companies, this background research is very important. Many venture capital professionals have had prior investment experience, often as equity research analysts while others have a Master in Business Administration (MBA) degree. VC professionals also tend to concentrate on a particular industry. A venture capitalist that specializes in healthcare, for example, may have had prior experience as a healthcare industry analyst.



Once due diligence has been completed, the firm or the investor will pledge an investment of capital in exchange for equity in the company. These funds may be provided all at once, but more typically the capital is provided in rounds. The firm or investor then takes an active role in the funded company, advising and monitoring its progress before releasing additional funds.



The investor exits the company after a period of time, typically four to six years after the initial investment, by initiating a merger, acquisition, or initial public offering (IPO).


   A Day in the Venture Capital Life  

Like most professionals in the financial industry, venture capitalists tend to start their day with a copy of The Wall Street Journal, the Financial Times, and other respected business publications. Venture capitalists who specialize in an industry tend to also subscribe to the trade journals and papers that are specific to that industry. All of this information is often digested each day along with breakfast.



For the VC professional, most of the rest of the day is filled with meetings. These meetings have a wide variety of participants, including other partners and/or members of their venture capital firm, executives in an existing portfolio company, contacts within the field of specialty, and budding entrepreneurs seeking venture capital.



At an early morning meeting, for example, there may be a firm-wide discussion of potential portfolio investments. The due diligence team will present the pros and cons of investing in the company. An around-the-table vote may be scheduled for the next day as to whether or not to add the company to the portfolio.
An afternoon meeting may be held with a current portfolio company. These visits are maintained regularly in order to determine how smoothly the company is running and whether the investment made by the VC firm is being utilized wisely. The venture capitalist is responsible for taking evaluative notes during and after the meeting and circulating the conclusions among the rest of the firm.



After spending much of the afternoon writing up that report and reviewing other market news, there may be an early dinner meeting with a group of budding entrepreneurs who are seeking funding for their venture. The venture capital professional gets a sense of what type of potential the emerging company has, and determines whether further meetings with the venture capital firm are warranted.



After that dinner meeting, when the venture capitalist finally heads home for the night, they may take along the due diligence report on the company that will be voted on the next day, taking one more chance to review all the essential facts and figures before the morning meeting.






Late-stage financing has become more popular because institutional investors prefer to invest in less-risky ventures (as opposed to early-stage companies where the risk of failure is high).


   Venture Capital Trends  

The first VC funding was an attempt to kickstart an industry. To that end, Georges Doriot adhered to a philosophy of actively participating in the startup's progress. He provided funding, counsel, and connections to entrepreneurs.



An amendment to the SBIC Act in 1958 led to the entry of more novice investors in small businesses and startups. The increase in funding levels for the industry was accompanied by a corresponding increase in the number of failed small businesses. Over time, VC industry participants have coalesced around Doriot's original philosophy of providing counsel and support to entrepreneurs building businesses.


  Growth of Silicon Valley  

Due to the industry's proximity to Silicon Valley, the overwhelming majority of deals financed by venture capitalists are in the technology industry—the internet, healthcare, computer hardware and services, and mobile and telecommunications. But other industries have also benefited from VC funding. Notable examples are Staples and Starbucks (SBUX), which both received venture money.



VC is no longer the preserve of elite firms. Institutional investors and established companies also entered the fray. For example, tech behemoths Google and Intel have separate venture funds to invest in emerging technology. In 2019, Starbucks also announced a $100 million venture fund to invest in food startups.



With an increase in average deal sizes and the presence of more institutional players in the mix, VC has matured over time. The industry now comprises an assortment of players and investor types who invest in different stages of a startup's evolution, depending on their appetite for risk.


  Latest Trends  

According to data from the NVCA and PitchBook, 2022 was marked with both highs and lows for the VC industry. Sweeping momentum in the industry carried through from 2021. But it was primarily centered in the first two quarters. VC activity in the final quarter was 25% of what took place in Q1. The VC industry raised about $160 billion for the entire year.



The momentum in this report was due in large part to the zero-to-low interest rate environment that followed during the COVID-19 pandemic and because of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Silicon Valley Bank was among the rush of institutional investors that began funding startups, particularly in the tech sector. It was very popular with venture capitalists, many of which used the bank to park their cash. But rising rates led to lower deposits by backers, causing winds to shift in the industry. The bank disclosed that it lost about $2 billion from the sale of an investment portfolio, causing customers to pull their money out. The FDIC swept in to take control on March 12.




Why Is Venture Capital Important?
Innovation and entrepreneurship are the kernels of a capitalist economy. New businesses, however, are often highly-risky and cost-intensive ventures. As a result, external capital is often sought to spread the risk of failure. In return for taking on this risk through investment, investors in new companies are able to obtain equity and voting rights for cents on the potential dollar. Venture capital, therefore, allows startups to get off the ground and founders to fulfill their vision.




What Percentage of a Company Do Venture Capitalists Take?
Depending on the stage of the company, its prospects, how much is being invested, and the relationship between the investors and the founders, VCs will typically take between 25 and 50% of a new company's ownership.




What Is the Difference Between Venture Capital and Private Equity?
Venture capital is a subset of private equity. In addition to VC, private equity also includes leveraged buyouts, mezzanine financing, and private placements.




How Does a VC Differ From an Angel Investor?
While both provide money to startup companies, venture capitalists are typically professional investors who invest in a broad portfolio of new companies and provide hands-on guidance and leverage their professional networks to help the new firm. Angel investors, on the other hand, tend to be wealthy individuals who like to invest in new companies more as a hobby or side-project and may not provide the same expert guidance. Angel investors also tend to invest first and are later followed by VCs.


   The Bottom Line  

Venture capital represents an central part of the lifecycle of a new business. Before a company can start earning revenue, it needs enough start-up capital to hire employees, rent facilities, and begin designing a product. This funding is provided by VCs in exchange for a share of the new company's equity.
What Is a Venture Capital-Backed IPO?  

The term venture capital-backed IPO refers to the initial public offering of a company that was previously financed by private investors. These offerings are considered a strategic plan by venture capitalists to recover their investments in the company. Investors normally wait for an opportune time to issue this type of initial public offering in order to maximize their return on investment (ROI).





Key Takeaways

A venture capital-backed IPO refers is the initial public offering of a company previously financed by private investors.Venture capitalists use VC-backed IPOs to recover their investments in a company.Investors wait for the most optimal time to conduct an IPO to make sure they earn the best possible return.Low investor confidence during lean economic times can limit the amount of VC-backed IPOs on the market.


   Understanding Venture Capital-Backed IPOs  

Venture capital is a type of private equity. This kind of financing is provided by investors and firms to companies with high-growth potential or to those that demonstrate high growth. Venture capital firms or funds invest in early-stage companies in exchange for an equity stake, taking on any of the associated risks in the hopes that some of the startups they support will become successful.



The typical venture capital investment occurs after an initial round of seed funding. The first round of institutional venture capital to fund growth is called the Series A round. Venture capitalists provide seed capital so they can maximize their return through an exit strategy such as a venture capital-backed IPO. And because they provide new companies with a great deal of their initial financing, they have certain rights and responsibilities, including how and when a company goes public.



Venture capitalists look and wait for the most optimal time to conduct an IPO. This is to make sure they're able to exit their position in a company while making the best possible return. The alternative to an IPO for a venture capital-backed company is being acquired—getting purchased by another company. The acquisition of a venture capital-backed company is known as a trade sale. Both options are known as exit strategies because they allow venture capitalists and entrepreneurs to get money out of their investments.






The alternative to a venture capital-backed IPO is an acquisition.



Multiple sources regularly report on both venture-capital-backed IPOs along with the volume of mergers and acquisitions (M&A). In lean economic times, there tend to be fewer venture-capital-backed IPOs because of low investor confidence. As a result of the financial crisis, 2008 and 2009 saw record low numbers of venture-capital-backed IPOs.


   Special Considerations  

Venture capital, just like angel investing and crowdfunding options, is an attractive option for new companies. This is especially true for entities that have limited operating histories and are too small to raise capital in the public markets. Companies that fall into this category may not be at the point where they can secure a bank loan or complete a debt offering.



Attracting venture capital is very different from raising debt or a loan. While lenders have a legal right to interest on a loan and repayment of the capital irrespective of the success or failure of a business, venture capital invested in exchange for an equity stake in the business carries no such legal protection and is speculative in nature. The return on a venture capitalist's investment depends entirely on the growth and profitability of the business. This means that a venture capitalist takes a risk of loss along with the expectation of a return on their investment.


   Example of Venture Capital-Backed IPO  

Tesla and Open Table both went public in venture capital-based IPOs. Another great example of a venture capital-backed IPO is Uber (UBER). The ridesharing company was founded in 2009, raising nearly $20 billion from venture capitalists including Morgan Stanley, SoftBank, and G Squared. The company's final round of financing took place in 2018 when it raised $500 million. Uber went public in a venture capital-backed IPO in May 2019. Shares were priced at $45 each, allowing the company to raise roughly $8 billion.
What are Venture Capital Funds?  

Venture capital funds are pooled investment funds that manage the money of investors who seek private equity stakes in startups and small- to medium-sized enterprises with strong growth potential. These investments are generally characterized as very high-risk/high-return opportunities.



In the past, venture capital (VC) investments were only accessible to professional venture capitalists, but now accredited investors have a greater ability to take part in venture capital investments. Still, VC funds remain largely out of reach to ordinary investors.





Key Takeaways

Venture capital funds manage pooled investments in high-growth opportunities in startups and other early-stage firms.Hedge funds target high-growth firms that are also quite risky. As a result, these are only available to sophisticated investors that can handle losses, along with illiquidity and long investment horizonsVenture capital funds are used as seed money or "venture capital" by new firms seeking accelerated growth, often in high-tech or emerging industries.Investors in a VC fund will earn a return when a portfolio company exits, either through an IPO, merger, or acquisition.


   Understanding Venture Capital Funds  

Venture capital (VC) is a type of equity financing that gives entrepreneurial or other small companies the ability to raise funding before they have begun operations or started earning revenues or profits. Venture capital funds are private equity investment vehicles that seek to invest in firms that have high-risk/high-return profiles, based on a company's size, assets, and stage of product development.



Venture capital funds differ fundamentally from mutual funds and hedge funds in that they focus on a very specific type of early-stage investment. All firms that receive venture capital investments have high-growth potential, are risky, and have a long investment horizon. Venture capital funds take a more active role in their investments by providing guidance and often holding a board seat. VC funds, therefore, play an active and hands-on role in the management and operations of the companies in their portfolio.



Venture capital funds have portfolio returns that tend to resemble a barbell approach to investing. Many of these funds make small bets on a wide variety of young startups, believing that at least one will achieve high growth and reward the fund with a comparatively large payout at the end. This allows the fund to mitigate the risk that some investments will fold.


   Operating a Venture Capital Fund  

Venture capital investments are considered either seed capital, early-stage capital, or expansion-stage financing depending on the maturity of the business at the time of the investment. However, regardless of the investment stage, all venture capital funds operate in much the same way.



Like all pooled investment funds, venture capital funds must raise money from outside investors prior to making any investments of their own. A prospectus is given to potential investors of the fund who then commit money to that fund. All potential investors who make a commitment are called by the fund's operators and individual investment amounts are finalized.



From there, the venture capital fund seeks private equity investments that have the potential of generating large positive returns for its investors. This normally means the fund's manager or managers review hundreds of business plans in search of potentially high-growth companies. The fund managers make investment decisions based on the prospectus' mandates and the expectations of the fund's investors. After an investment is made, the fund charges an annual management fee, usually around 2% of assets under management (AUM), but some funds may not charge a fee except as a percentage of returns earned. The management fees help pay for the salaries and expenses of the general partner. Sometimes, fees for large funds may only be charged on invested capital or decline after a certain number of years.


   Venture Capital Fund Returns  

Investors of a venture capital fund make returns when a portfolio company exits, either in an IPO or a merger and acquisition. Two and twenty (or "2 and 20") is a common fee arrangement that is standard in venture capital and private equity. The "two" means 2% of AUM, and "twenty" refers to the standard performance or incentive fee of 20% of profits made by the fund above a certain predefined benchmark. If a profit is made off the exit, the fund also keeps a percentage of the profits—typically around 20%—in addition to the annual management fee. 



Though the expected return varies based on industry and risk profile, venture capital funds typically aim for a gross internal rate of return around 30%.


   Venture Capital Firms and Funds  

Venture capitalists and venture capital firms fund several different types of businesses, from dotcom companies to biotech and peer-to-peer finance companies. They generally open up a fund, take in money from high-net-worth individuals, companies seeking alternative investments exposure, and other venture funds, then invest that money into a number of smaller startups known as the VC fund's portfolio companies.



Venture capital funds are raising more money than ever before. According to financial data and software company PitchBook, the venture capital industry invested a record $136.5 billion in American startups by the end of 2019.﻿﻿ The total number of venture capital deals for the year totaled nearly 11,000—an all-time high, PitchBook reported. Two recent deals included a $1.3 billion investment round into Epic Games, as well as Instacart's $871.0 million Series F. Pitchbook also cited an increase in the size of funds, with the median fund size rounding out to about $82 million, while 11 funds closed out the year with $1 billion in commitments including those from Tiger Global, Bessemer Partners, and GGV.
What Is a Venture Capital Trust (VCT)?  

The term venture capital trust (VCT) refers to an investment vehicle that operates in the United Kingdom. The VCT is a closed-end fund that was created by the U.K. government in the 1990s to help direct investment into local private businesses. These funds are tax-efficient and allow individual investors to access venture capital investments via capital markets. VCTs seek out potential venture capital investments in small unlisted firms that are in their early stages to generate higher-than-average, risk-adjusted returns. VCTs are commonly listed on the London Stock Exchange (LSE).





Key Takeaways

The term venture capital trust is an investment vehicle that operates in the United Kingdom. The VCT scheme was established by the British government in 1995. Shares in VCTs are publicly-traded and provide capital to small and emerging private British businesses. Companies must meet certain criteria in order to qualify for capital. The types of funds include evergreen, limited life, and AIM funds.


   How Venture Capital Trusts (VCTs) Work  

The British government introduced a series of venture capital schemes in 1995. These include the enterprise investment scheme, seed enterprise investment scheme, and venture capital trust scheme. All three of these programs were designed to encourage the nation's private sector growth and generate investment from individual investors.



Retail investors can purchase shares in venture capital trusts that are traded on major exchanges like the LSE. This allows investors to take part in the growth of smaller, private, up-and-coming businesses indirectly. VCTs fall under the purview of fund managers who work for investment firms. The money from investors is pooled together and distributed to these businesses to help them grow.



Certain criteria must be met in order for a fund to be classified as. VCT. Some of the main qualifications include:



Listing on a major exchange in the U.K.
Companies that receive capital through VCTs must employ no more than 250 individuals.
Companies under the VCT must have less than £15 million in gross assets before the investment and £16 right after the investment



The government exempts these trusts from corporate taxes on capital gains that arise from their investments. They also provide investors with certain tax benefits, including income tax relief for 30% for annual investments of up to £200,000 (as long as they are held for a minimum of five years) and a tax exemption on income derived from VCT investment dividends. Investors can't defer capital gains taxes, though.






Although there is no direct stock exchange equivalent to VCTs in the United States, they are similar to business development companies, which are corporations that invest in small- and mid-size companies, as well as distressed businesses.


   Special Considerations  

Investors who are interested in purchasing shares in VCTs can do so directly through fund managers in new offerings. Shares can also be purchased on the secondary market on public exchanges in the United Kingdom, such as the LSE.



Fund managers usually charge fees that are higher than other investments. That's because VCTs can be fairly complex and often require more attention. Upfront fees can be as high as 5% while the annual management fees can be in the neighborhood of 2%.






Investors should be aware of the risks involved with VCTs because of the nature and size of the companies involved. Investing in these funds may result in significant losses.


   Types of Venture Capital Trusts  

VCTs invest in different types of companies across various industries for fixed periods of time. Evergreen VCTs invest indefinitely whereas certain short-term venture capital trusts called limited-life VCTs are only designed to bring income for a few years.



There are also generalist VCTs, which are trusts that diversify across multiple sectors and industries, and specialist VCTs, which focus on one sector at a time.



Investors with a particular interest or background in technology can choose to hedge their bets on a specialist technology-focused VCT. The final type of VCT is called an AIM venture capitalist trust. It focuses on companies that are already public or are on the verge of becoming public on the LSE's Alternative Investment Market (AIM).


   Real-World Example of Venture Capital Trust  

The Octopus Titan Venture Capital Trust is one of the country's largest VCTs. The fund is invested in more than 90 tech-enabled companies with strong growth potential that are in the development stage, including:



Big HealthBought by ManyDepopWave Optic



These companies comprise a variety of sectors. The firm aims for dividends of around five pence per year. Additional dividends may also be allocated if businesses within the portfolio are sold at a high profit. The fund returned 32.8% to investors in the year up to June 30, 2021.
What Is a Venture Capitalist?  

A venture capitalist (VC) is a private equity investor that provides capital to companies with high growth potential in exchange for an equity stake. A VC investment could involve funding startup ventures or supporting small companies that wish to expand but have no access to the equities markets.





Key Takeaways

A venture capitalist (VC) is an investor that provides young companies with capital in exchange for equity.Startups often turn to VCs for funding to scale and commercialize their products.Due to the uncertainties of investing in unproven companies, venture capitalists tend to experience high rates of failure.However, for those investments that do pan out, the rewards are substantial.Some of the most well-known venture capitalists are Jim Breyer, an early investor in Facebook, and Peter Fenton, an investor in X (formerly Twitter).












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Venture Capitalists  

Venture capitalist firms are usually formed as limited partnerships (LPs) where the partners invest in the VC fund. A committee is usually tasked with making investment decisions. Once that promising emerging growth companies are identified, the pooled investor capital is deployed to fund these companies, in exchange for a sizable stake of equity.



Contrary to common belief, VCs do not normally fund a startup at its outset. Rather, VCs seek to target firms that are bringing in revenue and are looking for more money to commercialize their ideas. The VC fund will buy a stake in these firms, nurture their growth, and look to cash out with a substantial return on investment (ROI).



Venture capitalists typically look for companies with a strong management team, a large potential market, and a unique product or service with a strong competitive advantage. They also look for opportunities in industries that they are familiar with, as well as the chance to own a large percentage of the company so that they can influence its direction.






VC firms control a pool of various investors' money, unlike angel investors, who use their own money.



VCs are willing to risk investing in such companies because they can earn a massive return on their investments if these companies are a success. However, VCs experience high rates of failure due to the uncertainty that is involved with new and unproven companies.



Wealthy individuals, insurance companies, pension funds, foundations, and corporate pension funds may pool money in a fund to be controlled by a VC firm. The venture capital firm is the general partner, while the other companies/individuals are limited partners. All partners have part ownership of the fund. However, the VC firm controls where the money is invested. That's usually in businesses or ventures that most banks or capital markets avoid due to the high degree of risk.



Venture capital fund managers are paid management fees and carried interest. Depending on the firm, roughly 20% of the profits are paid to the company managing the private equity fund, while the rest goes to the limited partners who invested in the fund. General partners are usually due an additional 2% fee.






   History of Venture Capital  

The first venture capital firms in the U.S. started in the middle of the twentieth century. Georges Doriot, a Frenchman who moved to the U.S. to get a business degree, became an instructor at Harvard’s business school and worked at an investment bank. In 1946, he became president of American Research and Development Corporation (ARDC), the first publicly funded venture capital firm.



ARDC was remarkable in that, for the first time a startup could raise money from private sources other than wealthy families. Previously, new companies looked to families such as the Rockefellers or Vanderbilts for the capital they needed to grow. ARDC soon had millions in its account from educational institutions and insurers. Firms such as Morgan Holland Ventures and Greylock Partners were founded by ARDC alums.



Startup financing began to resemble the modern-day venture capital industry after the passing of the Investment Act of 1958. The act enabled small business investment companies to be licensed by the Small Business Administration (established five years earlier).



Venture capital, by its nature, invests in new businesses with great potential for growth (but also an amount of risk substantial enough to scare off lending by banks). Fairchild Semiconductor (FCS), founded in 1957, one of the earliest and most successful semiconductor companies, was the first venture capital-backed startup, setting a pattern for venture capital's close relationship with emerging technologies in the San Francisco Bay Area.



Venture capital firms in that region and time period also established the standards of practice used today. They set up limited partnerships to hold investments. Professionals would act as general partners. Those supplying the capital would serve as passive partners with more limited control. The number of independent venture capital firms increased in the following decade, prompting the founding of the National Venture Capital Association in 1973.



Venture capital has since grown into a hundred-billion dollar industry. Today, well-known venture capitalists include Jim Breyer, an early Facebook (META), now Meta, investor, Peter Fenton, an early investor in X, and Peter Thiel, the co-founder of PayPal (PYPL).





$330 billion

The value of all venture capital investments in 2021, a record-setting amount. The following year posted another impressive figure, with 2022 venture capital activity valued at $209.4 billion.


   Positions Within a VC Firm  

The general structure of the roles within a venture capital firm vary among firms, but they can be broken down into roughly three positions: 



Associates. These individuals usually come to VC firms with experience in either business consulting or finance, and sometimes, degrees in business. They tend to do more analytical work, analyzing business models, industry trends, and sectors. They also work with the companies in a firm’s portfolio. Although they do not make key decisions, associates may introduce promising companies to the firm's upper management.Principals. A principal is a mid-level professional. They usually serve on the boards of portfolio companies and ensure that they operate without major hiccups. Principals are also in charge of identifying investment opportunities for VC firms and negotiating terms for both acquisition and exit. Principals are on a “partner track” that depends on the returns they can generate from the deals they make. Partners. The higher profile partners primarily identify areas or specific businesses to invest in, approve deals (whether they be investments or exits), occasionally sit on the board of portfolio companies, and generally represent their VC firms.




How Are Venture Capitalist Firms Structured?
VC firms typically control a pool of funds collected from wealthy individuals, insurance companies, pension funds, and other institutional investors. Although all of the partners have partial ownership of the fund, the VC firm decides how the monies will be invested. Investments are usually made in businesses with attractive growth potential that are considered too risky for banks or capital markets. The venture capital firm is referred to as the general partner, and the other financiers are referred to as limited partners.




How Are Venture Capitalists Compensated?
Venture capitalists make money from the carried interest of their investments, as well as management fees. Most VC firms collect about 20% of the profits from the private equity fund, while the rest goes to their limited partners. General partners may also collect an additional 2% fee.




What Are the Prominent Roles in a VC Firm?
Each VC fund is different, but their roles can be broken down into roughly three positions: associate, principal, and partner. As the most junior role, associates are usually involved in analytical work, but they may also help introduce new prospects to the firm. Principals are higher-level, and more closely involved in the operations of the VC firm's portfolio companies. At the highest tier, partners are primarily focused on identifying specific businesses or market areas to invest in, and approving new investments or exits.


   The Bottom Line  

Venture capitalists are investors that form limited partnerships to pool investment funds. They use that money to fund startup companies in return for equity stakes in those companies. VCs usually make their investments after a startup has been bringing in revenue, rather than in its initial stage.



VC investments can be vital to startups because their business concepts are typically unproven and, thus, they pose too much risk for traditional providers of funding.
What Is Venture Philanthropy?  

Venture philanthropy is the application or redirection of principles of traditional venture capital (VC) financing to achieve philanthropic endeavors. Often, it is exercised in the context of charitable startups, green companies, or B corporations, as the venture capitalists offering funding to these types of firms will have the greatest breadth of experience in these areas.





Key Takeaways

Venture capitalists sometimes use their resources for philanthropic endeavors. This is called venture philanthropy.Such investors are in a perfect position to inspire and direct change, as migrating their systems from capitalist pursuits to philanthropic endeavors is relatively easy.In addition to direct investment, capitalists-turned-philanthropists may offer support in other ways such as executive coaching or board management. 


   Understanding Venture Philanthropy  

Venture philanthropy applies most of the same principles of venture capital funding to invest in start-up, growth, or risk-taking social ventures. It is not explicitly interested in profit but rather in making investments that promote some sort of social good, like socially responsible investments (SRI) to meet environmental, social, and governance (ESG) criteria. It is an umbrella term that can be used to refer shorthand to many different kinds of philanthropic investing, but notably, it is distinct from impact investing, which places more emphasis on turning a profit while nevertheless investing in ventures that address social concerns. 



Venture philanthropy is characterized by a high degree of investor oversight and engagement, in addition to financing plans which are tailored very specifically to a company or organization's capacity-building needs. Oftentimes, major donors will sit on the boards of organizations they support and they generally have intimate involvement in operational or managerial aspects of the business.






Venture philanthropy ventures generally focus on building capital and scale


   Other Considerations  

Such VCs will also provide non-financial support, like offering executive advice, marketing the initiatives using their own platforms, and measuring performance. Strategically, most of these practices are drawn from successful venture capital initiatives but judge the efficacy of the organization on standards like overall social impact, which depart from the usual standards of a successful venture capital investment being focused only on economic profit.



This kind of investment takes many forms. These include private foundations owned or supported by wealthy individuals (like the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation), government or university grants designed to support philanthropic endeavors, philanthropic investing arms of major investing institutions, or charities which encourage large or institutional donations. In the United States, most investment is grant-based. This usually results in selective, carefully chosen multi-year grants, the high competition for which is said to encourage innovation. 


   Origins of Venture Philanthropy  

The term "venture philosophy" is often attributed to John D. Rockefeller III in 1969, who described it as "an adventurous approach to funding unpopular social causes."﻿﻿ The Rockefeller Foundation remains a leading outlet for socially-attuned investing. Venture philanthropy arose largely as a result of a growing public impression that traditional financing mechanisms (investments, government or university grants, etc.) rarely assisted non-profit organizations or other socially beneficial industries build capital.



Venture philanthropy showed an increase as awareness of climate change and environmental degradation rose to the forefront of public concern. However, it has shown signs of ceding dominance in the philanthropic investment sphere to impact investing, which is concerned with making a profit while being socially responsible. Cap and trade carbon emissions markets or subsidies granted to sustainable businesses have attempted to bridge the gap between the market's drive for profit and the philanthropic concern for socially responsible business practices.
What Is Verge (XVG)?  

Verge (XVG) is an open-source, decentralized cryptocurrency that claims to offer completely anonymous transactions by obfuscating the location and the Internet Protocol (IP) address of the transacting participants. Verge trades on leading cryptocurrency exchanges with the symbol XVG.



Verge came into existence in 2014 under the name DogeCoinDark, but it was rebranded to Verge in 2016. DogeCoinDark was a fork of Dogecoin and was designed to provide an anonymous alternative to Dogecoin. Verge is in the class of "privacy coins" that also includes Monero, Pivx, and Zcash.





Key Takeaways

Verge (XVG) is an open-source, decentralized cryptocurrency that claims to offer completely anonymous transactions by obfuscating the location and the Internet Protocol (IP) address of the transacting participants.Verge came into existence in 2014 under the name DogeCoinDark, but it was rebranded to Verge in 2016. (DogeCoinDark was a fork of Dogecoin and was designed to provide an anonymous alternative to Dogecoin.)Many popular cryptocurrencies face challenges in protecting participants' complete anonymity; cryptocurrencies like Verge have led to an increase in the popularity of private ledgers that offer unique ways to hide users' identities.


   Understanding Verge (XVG)  

Verge focuses on anonymity by obfuscating users' IP addresses. An IP address is an identifying number that is associated with a specific computer or computer network. Using an IP address, it is possible to trace the user and the online activities they performed on the connected device; obfuscating IP addresses makes transactions completely untraceable.



Many popular cryptocurrencies (including Bitcoin) face challenges in protecting participants' complete anonymity. Cryptocurrencies like Verge have led to an increase in the popularity of private ledgers that offer unique ways to hide users' identities.



Verge ensures anonymity through the use of multiple anonymity-centric networks such as The Onion Router (TOR) and Invisible Internet Project (I2P). TOR protects users' identities by bouncing their communications over a distributed network of relays and tunnels. This network is run by volunteers spread across the globe. I2P encrypts user data and sends it through a volunteer-run anonymous peer-to-peer globally distributed network.



While anyone can view the various transactions occurring on the Verge public ledger, the use of TOR and I2P network layers hide the location—as well as the IP addresses—of the transacting participants.



While there are many other cryptocurrencies, like Monero and Dash, which also claim to offer higher levels of privacy and anonymity, they rely on cryptography techniques and implementation. Though such cryptocurrencies have achieved varying levels of success in securing user anonymity, their implementation has made their respective public ledgers secure but less transparent. This tradeoff at times makes it difficult to publicly verify transactions, which is a core requirement of decentralized cryptocurrency.


   How Is Verge Different From Bitcoin?  

Both Verge and Bitcoin are decentralized digital currencies. However, Verge was created with a special emphasis on privacy. As a virtual currency, Verge has a significantly smaller market capitalization than Bitcoin. As of Sept. 22, 2021, the market capitalization of Bitcoin is around $813 billion and the value of a Bitcoin is $40,693.68. The market capitalization of Verge is around $350 million and the value of a Verge token is $0.021.



While the supply of Bitcoin is limited to 21,000,000, the total number of Verge tokens is greater—it is limited to a total supply of 16,555,000,000. Both Verge and Bitcoin use a proof-of-work (PoW) system to verify transactions on the blockchain.


   Goals of Verge (XVG)  

Verge tries to tackle the problem of securing user anonymity technically. It does not rely heavily on cryptography; rather it banks on the existing and tested technology of TOR and I2P network to achieve its goals of user identity protection. Verge's founders say that an open ledger is mandatory for the participants to verify their transactions, and for other participants to publicly authenticate and verify the overall developments occurring on the blockchain without the need for a participant’s identity. Verge’s implementation helps it achieve both.



The anonymity of Verge was quoted as the primary reason for an adult website network to start accepting cryptocurrency payments exclusively in the Verge cryptocurrency in April 2018. As of September 2021, Verge is ranked 152 in the list of cryptocurrencies by market capitalization.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is Versioning?  

Versioning (also known as "quality discrimination") is a business practice in which a company produces different models of essentially the same product and then charges different prices for each model. Versioning a product gives the consumer the option of purchasing a higher valued model for more money or a lower-valued model for less money. In this way, the business is attempting to attract higher prices based on the value a customer perceives.





Key Takeaways

Versioning involves the production of different models of the same product, which are each then sold at different price points.Different models or versions of a product are most compatible when there are high fixed costs but low variables costs with which to modify the product at different levels.Versioning is common practice in the auto industry as well as with software suites, subscription services, and food products.


   Versioning Explained  

Versioning is usually done when a product has large fixed costs of production and small variable costs. For example, in software packages, features are added or taken away to give different versions and price points, because generally speaking, having different options will accommodate different utilities of consumers. This idea is based on a customer's willingness to pay. A higher willingness to pay will result in the purchase of a higher-quality product, and a lower willingness to pay will result in the purchase of a lower-quality product.



Versioning can be found in a wide variety of industries. In the consumer technology market, tablets and smartphones often are released in different versions that may feature varied tiers of data storage capacity and other options. For instance, a higher-end version of a smartphone may include a higher resolution screen for playing back video as well as control features not found on the other phones in the product line.



Often, versions will include a low-cost or budget model with no frills and only basic functionality as well as a high-end or luxury model with all the bells and whistles and higher quality trim, which comes at the highest price point.


   Examples of Versioning  

Software suites frequently see versioning options that allow customers to choose the features they want to pay to access. For example, Microsoft sells its Office Suite of programs in different versions in-home, personal, and student variations. The company also offers the software suite in different tiers for business users, with each iteration including different software titles as well as services, depending on the version purchased.



Subscription television providers, which can be cable or satellite, can also offer customers different versions of their services, typically offered as packages set at different prices. As more channels are added, the price increases, with premium channels often reserved for the more costly package offerings.



The auto industry applies versioning to its products as well. The base model of most any vehicle can be equipped with optional features, such as premium sound systems, connectivity with internet and data services, and onboard roadside services. The vehicle may have engine options, allowing for faster models. Seating options can also increase or decrease the passenger capacity across different models.
What Is Vertical Analysis?  

Vertical analysis is a method of financial statement analysis in which each line item is listed as a percentage of a base figure within the statement. Thus, line items on an income statement can be stated as a percentage of gross sales, while line items on a balance sheet can be stated as a percentage of total assets or total liabilities, and vertical analysis of a cash flow statement shows each cash inflow or outflow as a percentage of the total cash inflows.





Key Takeaways

Vertical analysis makes it easier to understand the correlation between single items on a balance sheet and the bottom line, expressed in a percentage.Vertical analysis can become a more potent tool when used in conjunction with horizontal analysis, which considers the finances of a certain period of time.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   How Vertical Analysis Works  

Vertical analysis makes it much easier to compare the financial statements of one company with another, and across industries. This is because one can see the relative proportions of account balances. It also makes it easier to compare previous periods for time series analysis, in which quarterly and annual figures are compared over a number of years, in order to gain a picture of whether performance metrics are improving or deteriorating.



For example, by showing the various expense line items in the income statement as a percentage of sales, one can see how these are contributing to profit margins and whether profitability is improving over time. It thus becomes easier to compare the profitability of a company with its peers.



Financial statements that include vertical analysis clearly show line item percentages in a separate column. These types of financial statements, including detailed vertical analysis, are also known as common-size financial statements and are used by many companies to provide greater detail on a company’s financial position.



Common-size financial statements often incorporate comparative financial statements that include columns comparing each line item to a previously reported period.






Vertical analysis is used in order to gain a picture of whether performance metrics are improving or deteriorating.


   Vertical vs. Horizontal Analysis  

Another form of financial statement analysis used in ratio analysis is horizontal analysis or trend analysis. This is where ratios or line items in a company's financial statements are compared over a certain period of time by choosing one year's worth of entries as a baseline, while every other year represents percentage differences in terms of changes to that baseline.



For example, the amount of cash reported on the balance sheet on Dec. 31 of 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015, and 2014 will be expressed as a percentage of the Dec. 31, 2014, amount. Instead of dollar amounts, you might see 141, 135, 126, 118, and 100.



This shows that the amount of cash at the end of 2018 is 141% of the amount it was at the end of 2014. By doing the same analysis for each item on the balance sheet and income statement, one can see how each item has changed in relationship to the other items.


   Example of Vertical Analysis  

For example, suppose XYZ Corporation has gross sales of $5 million and cost of goods sold of $1 million and general and administrative expenses of $2 million and a 25% tax rate, its income statement will look like this if vertical analysis is used:










Sales
5,000,000
100%


Cost of goods sold
1,000,000
20%


Gross profit
4,000,000
80%


General and Administrative Expenses
2,000,000
40%


Operating Income
2,000,000
40%


Taxes (%25)
500,000
10%


Net income
1,500,000
30%
What Is Vertical Equity?  

Vertical equity is a method of collecting income tax in which the taxes paid increase with the amount of earned income. The driving principle behind vertical equity is that those who have the ability to pay more taxes should contribute more than those who are not.



This can be contrasted with horizontal equity, whereby individuals with similar income and assets should pay the same amount in taxes.


   Understanding Vertical Equity  

The equity of a tax system speaks to whether the tax burden is distributed fairly among the population. The ability to pay principle states that the amount of tax an individual pays should be dependent on the level of burden the tax will create relative to the wealth of the individual. The ability to pay principle gives rise to two notions of fairness and equity—vertical and horizontal equity.



Vertical equity drives the principle that people with higher incomes should pay more tax, through proportional or progressive tax rates. In proportional taxation, the amount of taxes paid increases directly with income. Everyone pays the same proportion of their income in tax since the effective average tax rate does not change with income.





Key Takeaways

Vertical equity is a method of income taxation whereby more taxes are paid as income increases.Vertical equity is based on the principle of ability to pay through progressive tax rates or proportional taxation.Vertical equity is often more achievable than horizontal equity, which can be undermined by loopholes and deductions.


   Example of Vertical Equity  

For example of vertical equity, consider a taxpayer that earns $100,000 per annum and another that earns $50,000 per annum. If the tax rate is flat and proportional at 15%, the higher income earner will pay $15,000 tax for the given tax year, while the taxpayer with the lower income will have a tax liability of $7,500. With the same rate applied across all income amounts, the individuals with more resources or higher income levels will always pay more tax in dollars than lower earners.


   Progressive Taxation  

Progressive taxation includes tax brackets, in which people pay taxes based on the tax bracket that their income places them. Each tax bracket will have a different tax rate, with higher income brackets paying the highest percentages. Under this taxation system, effective average tax rates increase with income, so that the rich pay a higher share of their income in taxes than people whose self-reported incomes were in the lowest income bracket. For example, in the United States, a single taxpayer that earns $100,000 has a top marginal tax rate of 24%, as of 2019. Their tax liability would be $18,174.50 for an effective tax rate of 18.17%. The top marginal tax rate for a single taxpayer whose annual income is $50,000 is 22%. In this case, this taxpayer would pay $6,864 for an effective tax rate of 13.73%.



The other yardstick that is used to measure equity in a taxation system is the horizontal equity, which states that people with similar abilities to pay should contribute the same amount in taxes to the economy. The basis behind this notion is that people in the same income group are equal in their contribution capacity to society and, thus, should be treated the same by imposing the same level of income tax. For example, if two taxpayers earn $50,000, they should both be taxed the same rate since they both have the same wealth or fall within the same income bracket. However, horizontal equity is hard to achieve in a tax system with loopholes, deductions and incentives, because the provision of any tax break means that similar individuals effectively do not pay the same rate.
What Is Vertical Integration?  

Vertical integration is a strategy that allows a company to streamline its operations by taking direct ownership of various stages of its production process rather than relying on external contractors or suppliers. Companies can achieve vertical integration by acquiring or establishing their own suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, or retail locations rather than outsourcing them. Vertical integration can be risky due to the significant initial capital investment required.





Key Takeaways

Vertical integration requires a company's direct ownership of suppliers, distributors, or retail locations to obtain greater control of its supply chain.The advantages can include greater efficiencies, reduced costs, and more control along the manufacturing or distribution process.Vertical integration often require heavy upfront capital that may reduce a company's long-term flexibility.Forward integration occurs when a vendor attempts to acquire a company further along the supply chain (i.e. acquire a retailer).Backward integration occurs when a vendor attempts to acquire a company prior to it along the supply chain (i.e. a raw material provider).












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   How Vertical Integration Works  

Vertical integration occurs when a company attempts to broaden its footprint across the supply chain or manufacturing process. Instead of sticking to a single point along the process, a company engages in vertical integration to become more self-reliant on other aspects of the process. For example, a manufacturer may want to directly source its own raw materials or sell directly to consumers.



The supply chain or sales process typically begins with the purchase of raw materials from a supplier and ends with the sale of the final product to the customer. Vertical integration requires a company to take control of two or more of the steps involved in the creation and sale of a product or service. The company must buy or recreate a part of the production, distribution, or retail sales process that was previously outsourced.



Companies can vertically integrate by purchasing their suppliers to reduce manufacturing costs. They can invest in the retail end of the process by opening websites and physical stores. They can invest in warehouses and fleets of vans to control the distribution process.



All of these steps involve a substantial investment of money to set up facilities and hire additional talent and management. Vertical integration also ends up increasing the size and complexity of the company's operations.






As a company engages in more activities along a single supply chain, it may result in a market monopoly. A monopoly that occurs due to vertical integration is also called a vertical monopoly.


   Types of Vertical Integration  

There are a number of ways that a company can achieve vertical integration. Two of the most common are backward and forward integration.


  Backward Integration  

A company that chooses backward integration moves the ownership control of its products to a point earlier in the supply chain or the production process.



This form of vertical integration is aptly named as a company often strives to acquire a raw material distributor or provider towards the beginning of a supply chain. The companies towards the start of the supply chain are often specialized in their distinct step in the process (i.e. a wood distributor to a furniture manufacturer). In an attempt to streamline processes, the furniture manufacturer would try to bring the wood sourcing in-house.



Amazon (AMZN) started as an online retailer of books that it purchased from established publishers. Although it continues to do so, it also became a publisher. The company eventually branched out into thousands of branded products. Then, it introduced its own private label, Amazon Basics, to sell many of them directly to consumers.


  Forward Integration  

A company that decides on forward integration expands by gaining control of the distribution process and sale of its finished products.



A clothing manufacturer can sell its finished products to a middleman, who then sells them in smaller batches to individual retailers. If the clothing manufacturer were to experience forward vertical integration, the manufacturer would join a retailer and be able to open its own stores. The company would aim to bring in more money per product, assuming it can operate its retail arm efficiently.



Forward integration is a less common form of vertical integration because it is often more difficult for companies to acquire others that are further along the supply chain. For example, the largest retailers at the end of the supply chain often have the greatest cash flow and purchasing power. Instead of these retailers being acquired, they often have the capital on hand to be the acquirer, which is an example of backward integration.


  Balanced Integration  

A balanced integration is an approach to vertical integration where a company aims to merge with companies both before it and after it along the supply chain. A company must be the middleman and manufacture a product to engage in balanced integration. That's because it must both source raw materials as well as work with retailers to deliver the final product.



Consider the supply chain process for Coca-Cola (KO) where raw materials are sourced, the beverage is concocted, and bottled drinks are distributed for sale. Should Coca-Cola choose to merge with both its raw material providers as well as retailers who will sell the product, the company is then engaging in balanced integration.



Though most costly and risky due to the diversified nature of business operations, balanced integration also poses the greatest upside as a company is more likely to have greater (if not full) control over the entire supply chain process.






Although vertical integration can reduce costs and create a more efficient supply chain, the capital expenditures involved can be significant.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Vertical Integration  

Vertical integration can help a company reduce costs and improve efficiency. However, when executed poorly, vertical integration may have negative consequences on the company.


  Advantages  

The primary goal of vertical integration is to gain greater control over the supply chain and manufacturing process. When performed well, vertical integration may lead to lower costs, economies of scale, and a lower reliance on external parties.



Vertical integration may lead to lower transportation costs, smaller turnaround times, or simpler logistics if the entire process is managed in-house. This may also result in higher quality products as the company has direct control over the raw materials used through the manufacturing line.



Companies may sometimes find themselves at the whim of suppliers who have market power. Through vertical integration, companies can circumnavigate external monopolies. In addition, a company may gain insights from a retailer on what goods are selling best; this information may be very useful in making manufacturing and product decisions.


  Disadvantages  

Companies can't vertically integrate overnight. In fact, it is a long-term process that requires widespread buy-in. This also includes heavy upfront capital expenditure requirements to acquire the proper company, integrate new and existing systems, and ensure that staff is trained across the entire manufacturing process.



By vertically integrating, companies do sacrifice some degree of flexibility. This is because they commit capital to a specific process or product. Instead of being able to decline purchasing from an external vendor, a company will likely have committed money that can not be easily recovered. In addition, a company may lose the opportunity to gain unique knowledge through different external vendors.



Vertical integration may also have several social impacts. Companies may end up trying to do too much and lose focus on their ultimate goal. In addition, customers may not support the culture of a large manufacturer also interfacing directly with customers.





Pros

Long-term cost saving due to favorable pricing and minimal supply chain disruptions
Economies of scale, which increase efficiency
Reduces or eliminates the need to rely on external parties/suppliers
Greater control over the product, inputs, and process, which may lead to superior products



Cons

Requires large upfront capital requirements to implement
Reduce a company's long-term flexibility
Loss of focus on a company's primary objective or customer
Displeased customer base that would prefer to work with smaller retailer





   Vertical Integration vs. Horizontal Integration  

Vertical integration involves the acquisition of a key component of the supply chain that the company has previously contracted for. It may reduce the company's costs and give it greater control of its products. Ultimately, it can increase the company's profits.



Horizontal integration, on the other hand, involves the acquisition of a competitor or related business. A company may do this to accomplish any or all of the following:



Eliminate a rival and cut out its competitionImprove or diversify its core businessExpand into new marketsIncrease its overall sales



While a vertical integration strategy stretches a company along a single process, horizontal integration is a more pointed approach that causes a company to become more specific or niche within a certain market. For example, instead of engaging in all aspects of a supply chain ranging from materials sourcing, manufacturing, or retail, a company can choose to master only one of those facets by acquiring similar companies to engage in horizontal integration.






Much analysis has gone into reviewing when it is more optimal to simply contract with another company as oppose to acquire them. Published modern economic theory on the matter dates back decades.


   Examples of Vertical Integration  
  Netflix  

Netflix (NFLX) is a prime example of vertical integration. The company started as a DVD rental business before moving into online streaming of films and movies licensed from major studios. Executives then realized they could improve their margins by producing some of their own original content like the hit shows "Grace & Frankie" and "Stranger Things." It also produced some bombs, like 2016's The "Get Down," which reportedly cost the company $120 million.



The company now uses its distribution model to promote its original content alongside programming licensed by studios. Instead of simply relying on the content of others, Netflix performed vertical integration to become more engaged in the entertainment development process earlier.


  Fossil Fuel Industry  

The fossil fuel industry is a case study in vertical integration. British Petroleum (BP), ExxonMobil (XOM), and Shell (SHEL) all have exploration divisions that seek new sources of oil and subsidiaries that are devoted to extracting and refining it. Their transportation divisions transport the finished product. Their retail divisions operate the gas stations that deliver their product.


  Live Nation & Ticketmaster  

The merger of Live Nation and Ticketmaster in 2010 created a vertically integrated entertainment company that manages and represents artists, produces shows, and sells event tickets. The combined entity manages and owns concert venues, while also selling tickets to the events at those venues.




When Is an Acquisition Considered Vertical Integration?
An acquisition is an example of vertical integration if it results in the company's direct control over a key piece of its production or distribution process that had previously been outsourced.A company's acquisition of a supplier is known as backward integration. Its acquisition of a distributor or retailer is called forward integration. In the latter case, the company is often buying a customer, whether it was a wholesaler or a retailer.




Is Vertical Integration Good for a Company?
Whether vertical integration makes sense for a company depends on what's good for it in the long run. If a company makes clothing with buttons, it can buy the buttons or make them. Making them eliminates the markup charged by the button-maker. It may give the company greater flexibility to change styles or colors while eliminating the frustrations that come with dealing with a supplier.Then again, the company would have to set up or buy a whole separate manufacturing process for buttons, buy the raw materials that go into making and attaching buttons, and hire people to make the buttons along with a management team to manage the button division.




What Is the Difference Between Vertical Integration and Horizontal Integration?
Vertical integration is the practice of acquiring different pieces along a supply chain that a company does not currently manage. Horizontal integration is the practice of acquiring similar companies to further master what it already does. Vertical integration makes a company broader while horizontal integration may help it penetrate a specific market further.




Why Do Companies Use Vertical Integration?
Companies use vertical integration to have more control over the supply chain of a manufacturing process. By taking certain steps in-house, the manufacturer can control the timing, process, and aspects of additional stages of development. Owning more of the process may also result in long-term cost savings (as opposed to buying outsourced goods at marked-up costs).


   The Bottom Line  

Vertical integration is the business arrangement in which a company controls different stages along the supply chain. Instead of relying on external suppliers, the company strives to bring processes in-house to have better control over the production process. Though vertical integration may result in increased upfront capital outlays, the goal of vertical integration is to streamline processes for more efficient and controlled operations in the long-term.
What is Vertical Line Charting?  

Vertical line charting is a technique used by technical traders and market technicians to track the price moves of a security. In vertical line charting, the price action over a specified period is summarized by a vertical bar. The security's high and low prices for the period are denoted by the top and bottom of the line, respectively, while its opening and closing prices are indicated by short horizontal bars to the left and right of the vertical bar, respectively.



Vertical line charts are more commonly called bar charts.





Key Takeaways

Vertical line charts summarize price movement over a specified time frame.Vertical line charts can include any number of selected data points, including the open, high, low, close price for the time period.If all these data points are included, it is typically called a bar chart, or a OHLC chart (open, high, low, close).


   What Does Vertical Line Charting Tell You?  

A vertical line chart provides information via its high and low points and small horizontal lines to the left and right of the line. When all these prices are shown for each period, it is typically called a bar chart.



A trader could also opt to only see the high and low, or only the open or close, or any combination of the four data points.



If the vertical bar is long, it signifies strong movement. There was a large difference between the high and low. If the close (line on right) and open (line on left) were similar, the buyers and sellers were in balance or are indecisive.



If there is a large difference between the open and close, it signals that the buyers or sellers overpowered the other. If the close is well below the open, sellers dominated the time period. If the close is way above the open, buyers dominated the period.



If the price moved only a small amount during the period, it is possible that there was little interest in the security, or that buyers and sellers were evenly matched but not aggressive in their trades.



Charting platforms often allow traders to color code the vertical line depending on whether the price rose or declined over the period.



More advanced forms of analyzing price charts including looking for support and resistance levels, and highlighting chart patterns which may present trading opportunities.


   Example of a Vertical Line Chart  

The following chart of Alphabet (GOOG) shows daily vertical lines. Since the lines include information on the low, high, open and close, this would typically be called a bar chart or a OHLC chart.












 TradingView



The chart shows an overall upward ascent of the price over this three month period. This is an uptrend, even though there were days or sequences of days where the price dropped temporarily.


   What is the Difference Between a Vertical Line Chart and a Line Chart?  

A line chart only marks the close for each period. Then, the closing prices for the period is connected to the prior closing prices, and then it is connects to the next closing price. The price appears as a line oscillating up and down over time.


   Limitations of Vertical Line Charting  

Traders have the option of customizing the type of information the vertical line shows. It can include the high, open, low, close. Including more of these data points provides more information on how the price moved over the period. Most single time periods are not important in and of themselves. It's how the price moves over multiple time periods that matters.



For some traders more information is better, while for others less is better.



Vertical line charts show the historical record of how an asset moved. Interpretations of the chart are subjective and should be thoroughly tested for validity before attempting to rely on historical price movements to forecast future movements.



Trading only based on the price is chart is called price action trading. Many traders also opt to include technical indicators and fundamental analysis into their trading.
What Is a Vertical Market?  

A vertical market is a market encompassing a group of companies and customers that are all interconnected around a specific niche. Companies in a vertical market are attuned to that market’s specialized needs and generally do not serve a broader market. As such, vertical markets typically have their own set of business standards. They may also have high barriers to entry for new companies.





Key Takeaways

Vertical markets are a group of companies focused on a specific niche.Companies in a vertical market provide targeted insight and specialized services.Focusing on a specific market vertical may help a company realize higher profits through a narrower customer base and more cost-effective marketing campaigns. Vertical markets typically have high barriers to entry for new companies.Horizontal markets are the opposite of vertical markets in that they sell their goods and services across multiple industries.Companies in a vertical market gain expertise in their market’s trends, terminology, regulations, and an increased level of competitiveness.


   Understanding a Vertical Market  

The global business market provides a multitude of opportunities for all types of businesses. Vertical market providers are focused on specific goods and services that meet the needs of a niche customer group. These markets are the opposite of horizontal markets that sell their products and services across multiple industries with a broader association among a variety of businesses and business segments.



A company operating or seeking to work in a vertical market will generally need to take somewhat of a different strategic approach than a horizontal market company. Vertical market businesses may be industry-specific or demographic-specific. Regardless, they seek to target a narrow market that has its own idiosyncrasies. In some cases, business managers in a vertical market may find certain advantages over operating in a broader, horizontal market.


   Advantages of a Vertical Market  

Operators in a vertical market can target a particular segment where they have a comparative advantage. As these operators grow within a specified vertical market environment, they also gain expertise in their market’s trends, terminology, regulations, and an increased level of competitiveness.



Some of the most considerable advantages for vertical market businesses come in the savings from marketing expenses. Vertical market businesses have the benefit of targeting a narrower customer base. This narrow focus can lead to more streamlined and focused marketing campaigns which are less costly than those seeking to reach a wider mass audience.



Overall, a company that specializes in a vertical can provide targeted insight and specialized services to clients, becoming an integral component of their business over the long term. With specialized products and services, a vertical company can justify charging higher rates that can result in higher profits from a narrowed market focus. 


   The Practicalities of a Vertical Market  

While vertical markets concentrate on a specific industry or demographic, these concentrated markets can still have a wide customer base. A wide vertical market customer base is advantageous because the higher the demand for a specific product is, the greater the revenue opportunity becomes.



In a vertical market, customers usually have a high level of spending power, which often leads to requiring more attention in each customer relationship. This relationship-building is often crucial because of the market’s narrow focus. Customers within a vertical market typically rely on a single service provider to meet their long-term needs. Vertical market companies are also usually better positioned to understand market trends and how events affect their clients. 


   Real World Example  

In some cases, a particular market may be very specific, which leads to a unique vertical market in isolation. Generally, however, industries may include several market verticals comprehensively with some potential overlap.



Grocery stores provide an example of one industry. A company like Walmart could be considered part of a horizontal market. Walmart serves nearly every market demographic and partners with a wide range of retailers. In comparison, a company like Whole Foods focuses on organic grocery products.



Whole Foods, therefore, has operations in the organic grocery vertical market, dealing primarily with organic grocery consumers and organic grocery wholesalers. Companies in the organic grocery vertical set their own business standards and create a specific market environment. Conversely, Walmart deals with a wide range of customers and suppliers, leading to more broadly varied business activities.
What Is a Vertical Merger?  

A vertical merger is the merger of two or more companies that provide different supply chain functions for a common good or service. Most often, the merger is effected to increase synergies, gain more control of the supply chain process, and ramp up business. A vertical merger often results in reduced costs and increased productivity and efficiency.





Key Takeaways

The purpose of a vertical merger between two companies is to heighten synergies, gain more control of the supply chain process, and increase business.Anti-trust violations are often cited when vertical mergers are planned or occur because of the probability of reduced market competition.Vertical mergers may result in lower costs and increased productivity and efficiency for the companies involved.


   Understanding Vertical Mergers  

Vertical mergers help businesses control the earlier stages of their supply chain, such as a supplier that provides raw materials to a manufacturer. The two companies involved in a vertical merger each provide a different product or service but are at different stages of the production process. However, both companies are needed for the production of the finished good.



Vertical mergers reduce competition and can provide the new single entity with a larger share of the market. The success of the merger is based on whether the combined entity has more value than each firm separately.


   Benefits of a Vertical Merger  

Vertical mergers are helpful because they can help improve operational efficiency, increase revenue, and reduce production costs. Synergies can be created with vertical mergers since the combined entity typically has a higher value than the two individual companies. 


  Operational Improvements  

The synergies can include operational synergies, which can be improvements in the operational process of the two companies, such as a supplier and a producer. If a producer had difficulty obtaining supplies for its products, or if the raw materials needed for production were expensive, a vertical merger would eliminate the need for delays and reduce costs. A car manufacturer that purchases a tire company is a vertical merger, which could reduce the cost of tires for the automaker. The merger could also expand its business by allowing the manufacturer to supply tires to competing automakers–thus boosting revenue.


  Financial Synergies  

Financial synergies can be realized, which might involve access to credit or capital by one of the companies. For example, a supplier might have debt on its balance sheet leading to reduced access to a borrowing credit facility from a bank. As a result, the supplier might experience a shortage of cash flow. On the other hand, the producer could have less debt, more cash, or access to credit, such as a bank. The producer could help the supplier by paying down debt, providing access to cash, and a borrowing facility that the supplier needs to run more efficiently.


  Management Efficiencies  

Improvements could include a consolidation or reduction of the executive management team of the combined companies. By eliminating the poorly-performing managers and replacing them, the company can improve the communication and overall effectiveness of the combined entity.


   Vertical Merger vs. Vertical Integration  

Although the terms vertical merger and vertical integration are often used interchangeably, they are not exactly the same. Vertical integration—the expansion of operations into other stages of the supply chain process—can occur without merging two businesses. For example, with vertical integration, a ladder manufacturing company could decide to produce its own aluminum for the end product instead of purchasing it from suppliers. A vertical merger, on the other hand, would result in the manufacturing company and the supplier merging.






The opposite of a vertical merger is a horizontal merger, which involves the merger of two competing companies that produce at the same stage in the supply chain process.


   The Vertical Merger Controversy  

Vertical mergers are not without controversy. Anti-trust violations are often cited when vertical mergers are planned or occur because of the probability of reduced market competition. Vertical mergers could be used to block competitors from accessing raw materials or completing certain stages within the supply chain.



Consider the earlier example of the car manufacturer purchasing a tire manufacturer. Suppose this same car manufacturer purchased most of the tire manufacturers in the industry. It then could control the supply to the market as well as the price, thus destroying fair, or "perfect" competition. Moreover, some economists believe that vertical mergers can promote collusion among upstream firms, which are companies involved in the early stages of production.


   Real World Example of a Vertical Merger  

A notable vertical merger was the 1996 merger of Time Warner Inc., a major cable company, and the Turner Corporation, a major media company responsible for CNN, TNT, Cartoon Network, and TBS channels. In 2018, a merger between Time Warner and AT&T (T) was finalized but not without intense scrutiny.



As of February 2019, as reported by the Associated Press, the "federal appeals court cleared AT&T’s takeover of Time Warner, rejecting the Trump administration’s claims that the $81 billion deal will harm consumers and reduce competition in the TV industry."



According to the acquisition's financial details, the combined entity will realize increased financial synergies of $2.5 billion. Cost synergies of $1.5 billion and revenue synergies of $1 billion are expected by the end of three years following the close of the deal.
What Is a Vertical Spread?  

A vertical spread involves the simultaneous buying and selling of options of the same type (i.e., either puts or calls) and expiry, but at different strike prices. The term 'vertical' comes from the position of the strike prices.



This is in contrast to a horizontal, or calendar spread, which is the simultaneous purchase and sale of the same option type with the same strike price, but with different expiration dates.





Key Takeaways

A vertical spread is an options strategy that involves buying (selling) a call (put) and simultaneously selling (buying) another call (put) at a different strike price, but with the same expiration.Bull vertical spreads increase in value when the underlying asset rises, while bear vertical spreads profit from a decline in price.Vertical spreads limit both risk and the potential for return.


   Understanding Vertical Spreads  

Traders will use a vertical spread when they expect a moderate move in the price of the underlying asset. Vertical spreads are mainly directional plays and can be tailored to reflect the trader's view, bearish or bullish, on the underlying asset.



Depending on the type of vertical spread deployed, the trader's account can either be credited or debited. Since a vertical spread involves both a purchase and a sale, the proceeds from writing an option will partially, or even fully, offset the premium required to purchase the other leg of this strategy, namely buying the option. The result is often a lower cost, lower risk trade than a naked options position.



However, in return for lower risk, a vertical spread strategy will cap the profit potential as well. If an investor expects a substantial, trend-like move in the price of the underlying asset then a vertical spread is not an appropriate strategy.


   Types of Vertical Spreads  

There are several varieties of vertical spreads.


  Bulls  

Bullish traders will use bull call spreads and bull put spreads. For both strategies, the trader buys the option with the lower strike price and sells the options with the higher strike price. Aside from the difference in the option types, the main variation is in the timing of the cash flows. The bull call spread results in a net debit, while the bull put spread results in a net credit at the outset.


  Bears  

Bearish traders utilize bear call spreads or bear put spreads. For these strategies, the trader sells the option with the lower strike price and buys the option with the higher strike price. Here, the bear put spread results in a net debit, while the bear call spread results in a net credit to the trader's account.















Bull Vertical Spread P&L at Expiration.
Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Calculating Vertical Spread Profit and Loss  

All examples do not include commissions.



Bull call spread: (premiums result in a net debit)



Max profit = the spread between the strike prices - net premium paid.
Max loss = net premium paid.
Breakeven point = long call's strike price + net premium paid.



Bear call spread: (premiums result in a net credit)



Max profit = net premium received.Max loss = the spread between the strike prices - net premium received.Breakeven point = short call's strike price + net premium received.



Bull put spread: (premiums result in a net credit)



Max profit = net premium received.Max loss = the spread between the strike prices - net premium received.Breakeven point = short put's strike price - net premium received.



Bear put spread: (premiums result in a net debit)



Max profit = the spread between the strike prices - net premium paid.Max loss = net premium paid.Breakeven point = long put's strike price - net premium paid.


   Real-World Example of a Bull Vertical Spread  

An investor looking to bet on a stock moving higher may embark on a bull vertical call spread. The investor buys an option on Company ABC, whose stock is trading at $50 per share. The investor buys an in the money (ITM) option with a strike price of $45 for $4 and sells an out of the money (OTM) call with a strike price of $55 for $3.



At expiration, Company ABC’s stock trades at $49. In this case, the investor would exercise their call, paying $45 and then selling for $49, netting a $4 profit. The call they sold expires worthless.



The $4 profit from the stock sale, plus the $3 premium and less the $4 premium paid, leaves a net profit of $3 for the spread.
What Is a Vertical Well?  

A vertical well is a technique for accessing an underground reserve of oil or natural gas that involves drilling vertically into the ground. Drilling wells vertically is a traditional method of oil extraction, as compared to their more modern counterpart, directional drilling.





Key Takeaways

Vertical wells extract oil and natural gas reserves located directly beneath the well site.They have become less common in recent years due to the rise of directional drilling techniques.However, vertical wells continue to be used in the oil extraction industry and remain the primary method used by offshore drilling platforms.


   How Vertical Wells Work  

Vertical wells function by aiming a borehole under the surface well and into a reserve located beneath it. In the past, vertical wells were the only method available because directional drilling techniques were not available.



The primary benefit of a vertical well is its simplicity, which can result in cost savings both in terms of equipment and labor, as well as reduce the time required to extract available reserves. In some cases, however, vertical wells can prove relatively inefficient. For instance, when the underground reserve extends horizontally across a wide area, a company would need to drill multiple vertical wells to access the oil efficiently.



In those situations, directional drilling techniques could be far more cost-effective, which involves installing a vertical well that drills down into the reservoir, and then drilling horizontally or at an angle to extend the borehole into the adjacent sections of the reserve. With this, the oil from the entire underground reserve could be extracted from a single vertical well.


   Vertical Well vs. Horizontal Well  

Like the name, horizontal wells are drilled from the side. Vertical wells drill downward, but horizontal well is drilled off of a vertical borehole. Specifically, a well is horizontal if it's dug at an angle of at least eighty degrees to a vertical wellbore.



The number of horizontal wells surpassed vertical wells for the first time in 2017.﻿ However, there were still over 88,000 active vertical wells at the end of 2018, although the actual production of those wells was well behind production by horizontal wells﻿ At the end of 2018, horizontal drilling in U.S. shale plays made up 96% of crude oil production and 97% of natural gas production.﻿﻿﻿ 


   Example of Vertical Wells  

As conventional sources of oil and easy-to-access reserves dwindle, purely vertical wells are becoming less common. Of course, vertical wells continue to play an essential role in the oil extraction process, as all directional drilling projects must begin with the drilling of a vertical well. 



Engineers routinely use vertical wells to examine rock fragments at different degrees of depth. By analyzing these samples, the engineers can determine where the oil reserves are likely to be found, thereby informing the direction of the drilling.



In some cases, samples collected through vertical wells have allowed companies to extract oil from multiple distinct reserves using directional drilling techniques. The ability to efficiently extract oil from multiple reservoirs using a single vertical well can yield substantial cost savings over the life of the project, while also reducing surface level disruption due to the relative lack of heavy equipment and personnel involved.



Another area in which vertical wells continue to play an important role is in offshore oil extraction. In the sea, vertical wells are still the more common method, where drilling from an offshore platform is already quite complex. Offshore directional drilling, although technically possible, is still prohibitively expensive in most cases.
What Is a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT)?  

A very small aperture terminal (VSAT) is a two-way ground station that transmits and receives data from satellites. A VSAT is less than three meters tall and is capable of both narrow and broadband data to satellites in orbit in real-time. The data can then be redirected to other remote terminals or hubs around the planet.





Key Takeaways

A very small aperture terminal (VSAT) is a data transmission technology used for many types of data management and in high-frequency trading.VSAT can be used in place of a large physical network as it bounces the signal from satellites instead of being transported through physical means like an ethernet connection.Because the signal needs to bounce, there can be a latency issue that wouldn't exist with a physical network. However, most users feel this is the price you pay for remote access and less infrastructure and consider it a fair trade.Weather can adversely impact the efficacy of a VSAT network.


   How a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) Works  

VSAT networks have a number of commercial applications, including, perhaps most notably, enterprise resource planning (ERP). The use of VSAT to track inventory was one of the many innovations Walmart pioneered in retail to effectively manage its vast inventory in real-time and reduce delivery costs between the warehouse and stores.



Combined with the hub system of inventory storage, VSAT allowed Walmart to stock its stores more precisely and reduce how many times a product had to move between locations before being sold. Other manufacturers use VSAT to relay orders, check production figures in real-time as well as other functions that are otherwise handled over a wired network.



The National Stock Exchange (NSE) of India has one of the largest VSAT networks in the world and offers it as one of its connectivity options. VSAT provided the NSE with a way to offer access in areas where wired options are limited. With the exception of the occasional sun outage due to solar radiation distorting signals from the satellite, the VSAT network has held up.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT)  

VSAT networks have a big advantage when it comes to deployment. Because the ground station is communicating with satellites, there is less infrastructure required to service remote locations. This was one of the reasons Walmart chose VSAT as it started out heavily leveraged to rural America, where telecommunications infrastructure was less dense than in the cities.



This has made VSAT networks an ideal choice for providing connectivity to remote work sites, such as exploratory drilling sites that need to relay daily drill logs back to headquarters. VSAT is also independent of local telecommunications networks, making it an ideal system to back up wired systems and reduce business recovery risk. If the wired network goes down, a business can still go on using the VSAT network. 



However, VSAT does have limitations. The most obvious is latency, as it takes time for information to reach the dish and the station due to one part of the system being way up in geosynchronous orbit above the earth.



In other words, protocols that require a lot of back and forth communication rather than one-way data transfer experience lag. The signal quality can also be affected by the weather and other buildings getting in the way.

What Is a Vested Benefit?  

A vested benefit is a financial package granted to employees who have met the term of service required to receive a full, instead of partial, benefit. As an incentive to stay with a company, employers sometimes offer their employees benefits whereby they acquire the full amount gradually or suddenly, as they accumulate more time with the company.



This process is called graduated vesting or cliff vesting. When the employee has earned full rights to the incentive after a predetermined number of years of service, those benefits are called fully vested.



The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) sets rules that protect Americans’ retirement assets—including minimum standards for participation, vesting, benefit accrual, and funding. ERISA also guarantees that workers can access the benefits that have vested once they have worked at a job for the prescribed period.﻿﻿






The precise structure of a vested benefits program might be negotiated as part of a labor union's collective bargaining agreement or during the process of recruiting and hiring new employees.


   Understanding Vested Benefits  

Vested benefits may consist of various types of financial awards, including cash, employee stock options (ESO), health insurance, 401(k) plans, retirement plans, and pensions. Shares of the company's stock is an example of a type of benefit that might vest gradually.



For example, an employee might be awarded 100 shares of stock as a performance bonus after year one of employment. Under a graduated vesting plan, the employee might acquire full ownership of 20% of the shares after year two, 40% after year three, 60% after year four, 80% after year five, and 100% after year six. The stock bonus would be a partially vested benefit in years two to five, and a fully vested benefit after year six.


  How Vested Benefits Are Applied  

Depending on the type of benefit, the time required to be fully vested can vary. For example, a 401(k) plan vests as soon as an employee begins to participate, which means that they will be able to access the full amount of money they put into that account whenever they leave the company. If the benefits program includes matching contributions by the company in an employer-sponsored retirement plan, there may be a minimum required amount of time that the employee must work before that portion of the funding becomes vested.



The precise structure of a vested benefits program might be negotiated as part of a labor union's collective bargaining agreement or during the process of recruiting and hiring new employees. As more employees earn vested benefits, the amount of funding that an organization is required to put toward these benefits can create potential liabilities for companies. For accounting purposes, a company may be required to report the amount of the obligation being carried on the books for such vested benefits.





Key Takeaways

A vested benefit is a financial package granted to employees who have met the requirements to receive a full, instead of partial, benefit.Vested benefits include cash, employee stock options (ESO), health insurance, 401(k) plans, retirement plans, and pensions. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) sets rules that protect Americans’ retirement assets.﻿﻿
Definition of Vested Benefit Obligation (VBO)  

Vested benefit obligation (VBO) refers to the actuarial present value of the pension plan that has been earned by employees and is one measure of a firm's pension fund liability.


   Understanding Vested Benefit Obligation (VBO)  

Vested benefit obligation (VBO) is one of three approaches firms use to measure and disclose pension obligations as well as the performance and financial condition of their plans at the end of each accounting period — as they are required to under FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87. The other two measures are the firm’s accumulated benefit obligation and projected benefit obligation.



The VBO is the portion of the accumulated benefit obligation that employees will receive regardless of their continued participation in the company's pension plan. This is the benefit that has vested in employees — as opposed to the accumulated benefit obligation, which represents the present value of any benefits, whether vested or not.



The Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) of 1974 requires companies to vest benefits using one of the following two approaches:



Pension benefits must fully vest in five years or less; alternativelyA company can choose to vest 20% of the employee's pension benefits in three years or less, then vest another 20% per year until the employee is 100% vested in the program after seven years of service.



Since minimum vesting requirements are generally five years, the values of the vested benefit obligation and accumulated benefit obligation are very close in most pension plans. While the ABO and VBO values are required to be disclosed at fiscal year-end, in cases where the values are almost similar, companies' financial statements show the ABO value and state that the VBO and ABO values are not materially different.
What Is a Vested Interest?  

A vested interest generally refers to a personal stake or involvement in a project, investment, or outcome. In finance, a vested interest is the lawful right of an individual or entity to gain access to tangible or intangible property such as money, stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and other securities at some point in the future. There is usually a vesting period or time span before the claimant may gain access to the asset or property.





Key Takeaways

A vested interest refers to an individual's own stake in an investment or project, especially where a financial gain or loss is possible.In financial parlance, a vested interest often refers to the ability to rightfully claim assets that have been contributed or set aside for later use.Vested interest is common for retirement plans like a 401(k), but the employee can only claim matched funds after a minimum vesting period.


   Understanding Vested Interest  

The term vested interest can mean many different things depending on the context. A vested interest exists for individuals who have a claim or a right to ownership of a piece of property without any reliance on anything else, even if the person doesn't possess the asset right away. So an interest becomes vested if the asset's title or right can be transferred in the present or the future to another party. This means a person or other entity can have a vested interest in a tangible or intangible asset if there are no conditions to its ownership.



The time during which a person or entity is required to wait before exercising ownership of the asset is known as the vesting period. This period is normally prescribed by the company or person who holds the title to the asset. For instance, some companies may set up vesting periods of three to five years for employees in profit-sharing plans. In some instances, there is no vesting period, meaning the interest is transferred immediately.






Vesting periods dictate when an individual can exercise his or her vested interest in the property or funds.



Vested interests can exist in numerous entities throughout the financial landscape including pension plans and 401(k) plans, as well as stocks and options. Contributions within an employee pension plan often come with special conditions surrounding when the funds can be cashed out.



These plans are under the stipulation that the participant is entitled to make withdrawals from the balance at some point in the future. In this case, the participant or investor has a vested right to the earnings. The vesting period varies by pension plan before the participant gains access to funds.



There may also be restrictions on withdrawal amounts to a specific percent per vested year. For example, after waiting the five-year vesting period, Peter was allowed to withdraw 20% from his retirement fund each consecutive year.


   Special Considerations  

An employee who contributes money toward a 401(k) plan may also have a vested interest in the company match if the employer offers one. Companies that match their employee's 401(k) contributions typically have distinct vesting schedules set up.



These schedules dictate the amount of the company match an employee is entitled to based on their years of service. For example, a company may designate a 20% entitlement of matched funds for employees after one year of service. If Peter contributes to a 401(k) with a company match, he would be fully vested or entitled to the entire company match after five years of service. But if he leaves the company in three years, he would be allowed to take only 60% of the company match with him.



Some companies have vesting cycles that don't break the match down into portions. In other words, an employee is fully vested after working at the company for a set amount of time. Say Peter works for a firm in which eligible employees become fully vested in the company match after working for five years. If Peter leaves this firm after three years, he takes home none of the company match funds. Therefore, it's crucial for 401(k) participants to pay attention to their companies' vesting schedules. 


   Vested Interest vs. Vested in Interest  

Vested interest should not be confused with vested in interest. This term, unlike vested interest, applies to entities such as trusts. The beneficiary of a trust is vested in interest if they do not have to meet any condition for their interest to take effect. In this case, the recipient has a present right to future enjoyment, such as a right to property when another beneficiary's interest ends. In this case, that beneficiary has access to the property when the primary beneficiary becomes deceased.
What Is Vesting?  

A vesting schedule is an incentive program for employees that gives them benefits, usually stock options, when they have contractually fulfilled a specified term of employment with the company. The benefits can also be other assets, such as retirement funds. Vesting is a way for employers to keep top-performing employees at the company.



A vesting schedule is also commonly used in inheritance law and real estate.





Key Takeaways

When an employee is vested in employer-matching retirement funds or stock options, she has nonforfeitable rights to those assets.The amount in which an employee is vested often increases gradually over a period of years until the employee is 100% vested.A common vesting schedule is three to five years.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Vesting  

In the context of retirement plan benefits, vesting gives employees rights to employer-provided assets over time, which gives the employees an incentive to perform well and remain with a company. The vesting schedule set up by a company determines when employees acquire full ownership of the asset.



Generally, nonforfeitable rights accrue based on how long an employee has worked for a company. One example of vesting is seen in how money is awarded to an employee via a 401(k) company match. Such matching dollars usually take years to vest, meaning an employee must stay with the company long enough to be eligible to receive them.



Vesting within stock bonuses offers employers a valuable employee-retention tool. For example, an employee might receive 100 restricted stock units as part of an annual bonus. To entice this valued employee to remain with the company for the next five years, the stock vests according to the following schedule: 25 units in the second year after the bonus, 25 units in year three, 25 units in year four and 25 units in year five. If the employee leaves the company after year three, only 50 units would be vested, and the other 50 would be forfeited.



For some benefits, vesting is immediate. Employees are always 100% vested in their salary-deferral contributions to their retirement plans as well as SEP and SIMPLE employer contributions. Employer contributions to an employee’s 401(k) plan may vest immediately. Or they may vest after several years using either a cliff vesting schedule, which gives the employee ownership of 100% of the employer’s contributions after a certain number of years or using a graded vesting schedule, which gives the employee ownership of a percentage of the employer’s contribution each year.



Traditional pension plans might have a five-year cliff vesting schedule or a three- to seven-year graded vesting schedule.



Just because you are fully vested in your employer’s contributions to your plan does not mean you can withdraw that money whenever you want. You are still subject to the plan’s rules, which generally require you to reach retirement age before making penalty-free withdrawals.






Employees are always 100% vested in their own contributions to an employer-sponsored retirement plan.


   Special Considerations  

Vesting is common in wills and bequests and often takes the form of a set waiting period to finalize bequests following the death of the testator. This waiting period before vesting helps reduce conflicts that could arise over the exact time of death and the possibility of double-taxation if multiple heirs die after a disaster.



Startup companies often offer grants of common stock or access to an employee stock option plan to employees, service providers, vendors, board members, or other parties as part of their compensation. To encourage loyalty among employees and also keep them engaged and focused on the company's success, such grants or options usually are subject to a vesting period during which they cannot be sold. A common vesting period is three to five years.
What Was the Veterans Administration?  

The term Veterans Administration refers to the previous name of a U.S. Cabinet-level department. Founded at the height of the Great Depression, the Veterans Administration was formerly an independent government agency. It was elevated to a cabinet department in 1989 and underwent a change in title to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. The organization provided and continues to provide medical care, benefits, and essential services to veterans of the U.S. armed forces and their families.





Key Takeaways

The Veterans Administration was established in 1930 as a federal administration that provided benefits to veterans. Elevated to a U.S. Cabinet-level department, it is now known as the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs or the VA.The agency provides medical care, benefits, and a variety of essential services to veterans of the U.S. armed forces and their families.Health care services are provided by three administrations: the Veterans Health Administration, the Veterans Benefits Administration, and the National Cemetery AdministrationExamples of financial assistance offered by the VA include disability compensation, education and training, life insurance, and home loans.


   Understanding the Veterans Administration  

The Veterans Administration was established in 1930 after then-President Herbert Hoover signed an Executive Order making it a federal administration. Prior to this, veterans' benefits were handled by three different agencies. Hoover consolidated them into a single agency to provide medical care, benefits, and a variety of essential services to veterans of the U.S. armed forces and their families. It also provided burial and memorial benefits to eligible veterans and family members.



In 1988, President Ronald Reagan elevated the Veterans Administration to a U.S. Cabinet-level department. The change took effect in 1989, and the VA was renamed the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. As such, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs performs all of these functions.



The department continues to provide some of the provides near-comprehensive health care services, as well as disability compensation, vocational rehabilitation, education assistance, home loans, and life insurance. It has three administrations:



The Veterans Health Administration (VHA)The Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA),The National Cemetery Administration (NCA)



The NCA runs 155 national cemeteries throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, providing benefits for all eligible service members and family members. Burial and memorial benefits include opening and closing of the grave, perpetual care, a burial flag, a headstone/marker, and a presidential memorial certificate.






The VHA is the largest integrated health care system in the United States.


   Special Considerations  

The primary criteria for receiving health care benefits through the VA require that you be a military veteran or former member of the National Guard or Reserve who served on active duty. You cannot have been dishonorably discharged. Specific eligibility depends on when you served and for how long.


  Veterans Health Administration (VHA)  

The VHA includes 1,298 health care facilities, 171 VA medical centers, and 1,113 outpatient sites. It serves more than nine million veterans enrolled in the VA health care program. VHA medical centers provide a wide range of medical services to eligible veterans. In addition to medical care, the VHA also provides specialty services, such as dermatology, dental care, neurology, podiatry, and vision care.


  Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA)  

The Veterans Benefits Administration makes available a variety of benefits and services that provide financial assistance and other forms of help to service members, their dependents, and survivors. The list includes disability compensation, education and training, life insurance, vocational rehabilitation, and job placement assistance.



The VBA also provides federal guarantees of home loans for qualified applicants. To be eligible for a VA-guaranteed home loan, veterans must have served on active duty in the Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, or Marines.



The specific service requirements vary, depending on the time period when a veteran served. A certificate of eligibility is required to obtain a VA loan, and the loan can be obtained through any mortgage lender who participates in the VA home loan program. The VA-guaranteed home loan is one of the very few 0% down payment loans available in the United States. The U.S. Department of Agriculture [USDA] Rural Housing Loan is another.






The rules for eligibility for veterans' benefits can be fairly complicated, but they are well explained on the VA’s eligibility web page.


   History of the Veterans Administration  

The roots of the Veterans Administration date back to 1636, when the Pilgrims of Plymouth Colony voted that the colony would support soldiers disabled by its war with the Pequot, a Native American tribe. The Continental Congress of 1776 enacted pensions for disabled soldiers during the Revolutionary War. In the 19th century, support was extended to widows and dependents of veterans.



Veterans’ benefits expanded during World War I, with the first consolidation of World War I veterans’ programs occurring in 1921 when Congress created the Veterans Bureau. In 1930, President Herbert Hoover elevated the Veterans Bureau to a federal administration, creating the Veterans Administration.
What Is Veterans Group Life Insurance (VGLI)?  

Veterans Group Life Insurance (VGLI) is for former members of the armed forces who wish to continue the group life coverage they had while in active military service. A renewable term policy, this insurance pays cash to the beneficiaries of the veteran upon death.





Key Takeaways

Veterans Group Life Insurance (VGLI) is a term policy for ex-members of the military that continues the group coverage they had while in active service.Veterans have one year and 120 days from the date they leave the service to exercise this option.VGLI offers $10,000 to $400,000 in life insurance benefits, based on the amount of coverage the veteran had upon leaving the military.Other benefits of VGLI include low premiums and no need for a qualifying health exam (if coverage is elected within a certain time frame).


   Understanding Veterans Group Life Insurance (VGLI)  

By opting for Veterans Group Life Insurance (VGLI), an ex-service person is technically carrying over their Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance (SGLI) policy, a type of term life insurance offered to members of the military during active service. They have one year and 120 days from the date they become veterans to exercise this option.



Veterans Group Life Insurance offers many benefits not available in the private life insurance market. Premium rates are age-based only and do not consider gender, tobacco use, job, or recreational activities—all factors that can increase premiums with private insurance policies. In addition, the policy does not terminate at a certain age (such as 65); it remains in force for as long as the policyholder pays the premiums.



VGLI offers $10,000 to $400,000 in life insurance benefits, based on the amount of SGLI coverage the veteran had upon leaving the military. The maximum amount of coverage a veteran may initially qualify for is the same amount of coverage they had under their Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance.



Veterans may opt for lower levels of coverage, reducing them in $10,000 increments. Coverage can also be increased after enrollment by $25,000 every five years. However, the maximum benefit is capped at $400,000 until the veteran reaches 60.


   Eligibility for Veterans Group Life Insurance  

There are certain eligibility requirements for veterans who want to apply for VGLI. Along with holding an SGLI policy, the applicant must be within one year and 120 days from:



Being released from active duty, training, or order to duty in a period of 31 days or less
Being separated, by retirement or release, from an assignment from the Ready Reserves or the National Guard
Having an assignment of the Individual Ready Reserves (IRR) or to the Inactive National Guard (ING) (Members of the United States Public Health Service Inactive Reserve Corps (IRC) are also included in this section.)
Being placed on the Temporary Disability Retirement List (TDRL)



Veterans are also able to apply for VGLI coverage even if they had part-time Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance (as a member of the National Guard or Reserves) and they suffered an injury or disability while on duty—including direct traveling to and from duty—that disqualified them for standard premium insurance rates.


  Health Requirements for VGLI  

Veterans who apply to convert their SGLI to VGLI within the first 240 days after completing their service are not subject to any sort of health review or exam. Approval of the policy is not contingent upon being in good physical or mental health, in other words. If they sign up after the initial 240-day period, they need to submit evidence that they're in good health.


   Special Considerations  

VGLI offers numerous benefits—chief among them being its relatively low premiums rates (which were lowered even further as of April 1, 2021). Still, as is the case with most types of life insurance, it's important for each veteran to compare potential plans in order to determine what is the best life insurance policy for their unique circumstances.



Within 120 days of leaving service, you have the option to convert your current SGLI policy into a civilian one. Several commercial insurance carriers have special policies for ex-members of the armed forces.



You can also convert a VGLI policy to a commercial individual policy. However, the conversion policy must be a permanent policy, such as a whole life policy, and offered by a select group of carriers.
What Is Vetting?  

Vetting is the process of thoroughly investigating an individual, company, or other entity before making a decision to go forward with a joint project. A background review is an example of a vetting process for a potential employee. Once the vetting process is concluded, a well-informed hiring decision can be made.



Managers, investors, and analysts use such a process to identify worthwhile investments through a process known as due diligence.  Due diligence requires a close examination of a firm's financial records, key personnel, and growth potential before entering into an investment or proposed transaction with that party. Once fully vetted, the investment or deal may proceed.





Key Takeaways

Vetting involves researching and applying certain criteria to weed out better from worse options.A background review for vetting involves investigating an individual, company, or other entity before making a decision to go forward with a joint project.A vetting process might begin with a confirmation of facts to ensure that a resume, for example, accurately describes all the skills and experience a job candidate claims on their resume.Market participants use a process of due diligence to vet potential investments.


   Understanding Vetting  

The verb "to vet" has its origins in 19th-century British slang. A horse was thoroughly vetted by a veterinarian before being allowed to race, so a patient undergoing an examination could be said to be vetted by a medical doctor.



In modern business usage, vetting has come to mean the process of examining a person or company for soundness and integrity.






While vetting may be time- and cost-intensive, the price paid for not vetting could be even higher in the long run.


   Real-World Examples of Vetting  

Examples of vetting appear frequently in the context of business and investing. For instance, a company's board of directors will thoroughly vet a candidate for company CEO or other top management positions before making a hiring decision. Or, a business will properly vet a potential major supplier in order to determine whether it has conducted its business efficiently and honestly in the past.



As part of doing their due diligence, an investment adviser will vet a potential investment for its track record, management quality, and growth potential before recommending it to clients.



The word vetting is also used informally in many other situations outside of finance. A refugee seeking asylum is vetted as part of their application process. Candidates for government security clearance are vetted to make sure they don't have checkered pasts. A lawyer vets a contract to find any potential pitfalls in the fine print. These are just a few examples of vetting.


   Requirements for Vetting  

A vetting process might begin with a confirmation of facts. Is the job candidate's resume accurate in describing all the skills and experience that are claimed? Does a contractor called Worldwide Shipping have actual experience shipping worldwide?



The process continues with the verification of information. Every degree, award, or certification claimed by a candidate is checked for accuracy.



Whether it is a person, a company, or an investment that is being vetted, the process gets deeper, and potentially more intrusive, from this point on. Credit history checks, criminal background checks, and personal interviews with past and current associates all are fair game in the vetting process.


   The High Cost of Vetting  

While vetting is important to make sure quality options are chosen and poor options are discarded, the process can also be time consuming and expensive. As such, a balance must often be struck between the costs and benefits of vetting. According to jobs website Glassdoor, the average organization in the U.S. spends about $4,000 and 24 days to fill a position with a fully-vetted and qualified candidate.



Heavy reliance on vetting by governments around the world has raised some concerns related to both the high cost and the long delays they can cause. The U.S. government has issued a series of guidelines to streamline the vetting process and cut down on costs. One recommendation is to review the costs of each vetting procedure and place less expensive portions, which tend to disqualify a higher number of candidates, at the beginning of the process.



According to Australian newspaper reporting, some 350,000 people doing work for the Australian government undergo vetting processes to get their jobs. The cost to the government ranged from $300 for a minimum clearance to about $1,500 for a top security clearance. Job openings requiring vetting included a museum coordinator, a librarian, and a veterinarian.


   How to Vet an Investment  

Vetting a potential investment is known as due diligence. This vetting process involves collecting data and facts about a firm or issuer of securities and reviewing available financial records. Past company performance is also considered and should be referenced against competitors; anything else deemed material should be reviewed, such as key personnel and the names of other large investors. Due diligence is primarily a way to reduce exposure to risk and to ensure good decisions are made with available funds. The process ensures that investors are aware of all the details of a transaction before they agree to it, including potential risks or downsides.



For individual investors, doing due diligence on a potential stock investment is recommended but voluntary. For a venture capitalist (VC) firm making a professional investment in a startup company, on the other hand, due diligence is essential—especially when it comes to understanding the startup's growth potential and exit strategy.



Due diligence can be categorized as "hard," which is concerned with taking a deep dive into the numbers on financial statements, and "soft," which is more concerned with the people within the company, its brand image, and its customer base.






Some brokerages provide an approved list of pre-vetted investments or funds that they may recommend to clients.





What Is a Vetted Credit Check?
A credit check is a form of vetting performed when evaluating the creditworthiness of a potential borrower. A person seeking credit, whether it be for a mortgage, auto loan, or a new credit card, will be subject to a credit check to vet their ability to repay the interest and principal of the loan or line of credit (LOC). As such, the credit check will analyze data such as income, assets, job security, and the amount of other debts held.




What Does Vetted Mean in Immigration?
New entrants to a country, or those applying for citizenship, undergo vetting via a background check to ensure that they will be upstanding citizens. This process may look at things like criminal activity, outstanding debts, employment prospects, status of other family members, health, and more.




What Does Fully Vetted Mean?
Fully vetted suggests that an option has undergone a full and complete analysis with an objective decision made upon its completion.




What Does Vetted Mean in Politics?
Political candidates and appointees are often vetted by their sponsoring political party or legislative body. This is done to ensure that they have the appropriate skills or aptitude and that there are no skeletons in their closet that can come back to haunt them.
What Is a Viager?  

A "viager" is a real estate transaction, popular in France, where the buyer makes a down payment and then a series of payments for as long as the seller is alive.





Key Takeaways

A viager is a real estate transaction, popular in France, where the buyer makes a down payment and then a series of payments for as long as the seller is alive.Sellers are often widows or widowers who are in need of a regular source of income after the death of a spouse.For buyers, viagers offer the draw of a home purchase at reduced rates.


   Understanding Viager  

Essentially, a "viager" is a reverse annuity. For homebuyers, viagers are gambles, while for home-sellers, they offer the security of regular cash installments. A viager is sometimes called a reverse annuity mortgage or a charitable remainder trust.



In a viager agreement, a person agrees to sell their property to a purchaser in exchange for a down payment, known in France as the "bouquet," and regular cash installments for the rest of their life. Additionally, the seller continues to live in the house for the remainder of their life. It is only when the seller dies that the purchaser is free to take over the property. In essence, the buyer in a viager is wagering on the remaining lifespan of the seller.



In France, two private parties often negotiate a viager with the help of a lawyer and without the participation of banks or insurance companies. The deal can potentially benefit both parties. For example, sellers receive significant tax breaks. What's more, cash payments are strongly guaranteed. If the buyer defaults, the seller retains the down payment, all of the monthly payments up to that point, and ownership of the property. Sellers are often widows or widowers who are in need of a regular source of income after the death of a spouse.



For buyers, viagers offer the draw of a home purchase at reduced rates. Viagers use the occupied value rather than the market value, which is often much higher. In addition, buyers pay no interest on the property, and if the seller dies earlier than expected, buyers get an even bigger discount. The risk is that the seller lives longer than expected, in which case the buyer must pay more. The typical viager buyer is a middle-aged person looking to secure a home for retirement.


   Viager Calculation  

The value of a property in a viager is calculated based on the age of the seller, and it is known as the occupied value. The occupied value of a home owned by someone 50 years old will be more than that of a home owned by someone 70 years old. The down payment tends to land at about 30% of the occupied value. Participants calculate the cash installments based on the average life expectancy of the seller. Because of these guidelines, very old sellers would often be better off selling their homes outright and receiving the full market value.
What Is a Viatical Settlement?  

A viatical settlement is an arrangement in which someone who is terminally or chronically ill sells their life insurance policy at a discount from its face value for ready cash. In exchange for the cash, the seller of the life insurance policy relinquishes the right to leave the policy's death benefit to a beneficiary of their choice.



The buyer of a viatical settlement pays the seller a lump sum cash payout and pays all future premiums left on the life insurance policy. The buyer becomes the sole beneficiary and cashes in the full amount of the policy when the original owner dies.





Key Takeaways

A viatical settlement allows an owner of a life insurance policy to sell their policy at a discount from its face value to an investor in return for a one-time sum of cash.In a viatical settlement, the insured has a life expectancy of two years or less.The investor in a viatical settlement pays all future premiums left on the life insurance policy and becomes the sole beneficiary of the policy when the insured dies.A viatical settlement can be risky because the rate of return going into the investment is unknown and depends upon when the seller dies.A life settlement differs from a viatical settlement in that the insured seeking to sell their life insurance policy has an estimated life expectancy greater than two years.


   Understanding a Viatical Settlement  

Viatical settlements enable owners of life insurance policies to sell their policies to investors. Investors buy the full policy or a portion of it at a cost that is less than the policy's death benefit. The investor's rate of return depends upon when the seller dies. The rate of return will be lower if the seller outlives their estimated life expectancy. Conversely, the rate of return will be greater if the seller dies sooner than estimated.



For someone who is terminally ill, a viatical settlement enables them to obtain immediate cash they can use to pay for their care and comfort in their final days. A viatical settlement can be a financial management tool that enables individuals to preserve their estate's other assets—such as a home—which they may not want to sell before their death.


   Criticism of Viatical Settlements  

From an investment perspective, a viatical settlement can be extremely risky. The rate of return is unknown because it's impossible to know when someone will die. If you invest in a viatical settlement, you are speculating on death. Therefore, the longer the life expectancy, the cheaper the policy. However, because of the time value of money (TVM), the longer the person lives, the lower your rate of return.






In many states in the U.S., companies that buy viatical settlements to sell to investors are licensed by state insurance commissioners. For more information and a list of state insurance regulators, visit the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC).


   Viatical Settlement vs. Life Settlement  

Individuals not facing a health crisis may also choose to sell their life insurance policies to get cash, which is more typically referred to as a life settlement. A life settlement differs from a viatical settlement in that the insured has a longer life expectancy. In a viatical settlement, the life expectancy of the insured is generally two years or less.



If a life insurance policyholder is considering a life settlement, they should first consider all available options for obtaining the needed cash. There might be a better way to utilize a life insurance policy.



For instance, a life insurance policyholder may be able to access some of the cash value to meet their immediate needs while keeping the policy in force for beneficiaries. It might also be possible to use the cash value as security for a loan from a financial institution.



An accelerated death benefit (ADB) is also an option. An accelerated death benefit usually pays some of a policy’s death benefit before the insured dies. This could provide the holder of the life insurance policy with the cash needed without having to sell the policy to a third party.


   Special Considerations  

There are various points to consider before deciding on either a viatical settlement or a life settlement:



It's important to get quotes from several companies to ensure a competitive offer. 
Request an in-force illustration or reprojection for your current policy.
Not all proceeds received from the sale of a life insurance policy may be tax-free; make sure you understand all tax implications before entering a contract.
Find out if any creditors could claim your cash settlement. 
Understand the implications of any public assistance that may be relevant, such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) or Medicaid. 
The buyer of a viatical settlement is allowed to check on your health condition periodically. Make sure you understand who will get access to this information. 
All questions on an application form must be answered truthfully and completely—especially questions about medical history.
Make sure the viatical settlement provider deposits funds into an independent escrow account to protect the funds during the transfer.
Find out if returning the money is an option in the event of seller's remorse.
What Is a Viator?  

A viator is a person who has been diagnosed with a terminal or life-threatening illness and decides to sell their life insurance policy. In doing so, viators receive a portion of the death benefits while they are still alive.



Often, viators are motivated by the desire to fund costly or experimental therapies that might prolong their life. If these therapies are not included in their insurance coverage, they may need to sell their policy in order to afford the treatments out of pocket.





Key Takeaways

A viator is a life insurance policyholder who decides to receive a portion of their death benefit while they are still alive.In doing so, they must rely on a third-party willing to purchase their policy.The counterparty is then responsible for paying the monthly premiums associated with the policy. In exchange, they receive the policy’s death benefit once the viator passes away.


   Understanding Viators  

In some cases, a life insurance policyholder may not be satisfied with the extent of the coverage they receive from their insurance provider. For example, a person suffering from an expensive illness may feel that their provider is only covering basic treatment options, and failing to take advantage of newer or more experimental treatments that might reduce their symptoms or even extend their lifespan. In that situation, the policyholder may wish to take their treatments into their own hands, by forfeiting their life insurance policy in favor of a lump sum which they can spend on their own medical expenses.



To accomplish this goal, viators need to find a counterparty—known as a viatical settlement provider (VSP)—who is willing to purchase their life insurance policy. In order to generate a profit, the VSP purchases the life insurance policy at a discount, paying the viator less than its face value. The VSP is then responsible for the premium payments associated with the life insurance policy for the duration of the viator’s life. Upon the death of the viator, the VSP then receives the full death benefit of the insurance policy.



Viatical settlements are not without risk. After all, a viator may experience remission or take advantage of an experimental procedure that prolongs their life or cures them completely. In that situation, the VSP may be responsible for many more years of premium payments than they had budgeted for, reducing their eventual profit on the transaction and potentially leaving them with an overall loss. Because of this, some VSPs will purchase policies from multiple viators at once in order to have policies paying out at different times, offsetting their risks.


   Real World Example of a Viator  

Ted Smith was recently told that his cancer prognosis has worsened, and that he has only six months to live. When Ted’s children were younger and still lived at home, he took out a life insurance policy so that his family would be taken care of if something should happen to him. Over the years, his business and investments did well, and he was able to save up a substantial amount. Because of this, he is now financially secure, and his family will not need to rely on a life insurance payout in order to be well-cared for after his death.



With this in mind, Ted decides to try an experimental procedure that he heard is having great success in curing cancers like the one that he has been diagnosed with. After raising this issue with this insurance provider, however, he is told that they are not willing to cover this expensive new procedure. For this reason, Ted decides to sell his life insurance policy and become a viator.



Ted seeks out a viatical settlement provider and together they negotiate a settlement on the policy. As a policy holder, Ted’s wife would have received a payout of $500,000 upon his death. Now, Ted is selling the policy to the VSP for $250,000. Ted will receive approximately 50 percent of what his original payout would have been and the VSP will make a profit of $250,000, minus any monthly premiums that are made up until the time of Ted’s death.



Thankfully, the treatment Ted obtained works as intended, and his cancer goes into remission. The VSP is now responsible for making the monthly premium payments on the policy for the remainder of Ted's life, which could be many years from now, reducing the VSP’s estimated profit from the transaction.
Vicarious liability is when you are held partly responsible for the unlawful actions of a third party, although the third party also carries a share of the liability.



Vicarious liability can arise in situations where one party is responsible for (and have control over) a third party and is negligent in carrying out that responsibility and exercising their control. A supervisory party would bear responsibility for the actions of a subordinate or associate based on their relationship.





Key Takeaways

Vicarious liability is when a supervisory party is liable for the negligent actions of a third party for whom they are responsible.Employers have a greater chance of avoiding vicarious liability by proactively exercising reasonable care to prevent employees' negligent behavior.Parents can also be held vicariously liable for negligent or criminal actions of their children.


   How Vicarious Liability Works  

Vicarious liability, or imputed liability, is indirect liability for the actions of a another person, such as a subordinate or child. An employer can be held liable for the unlawful actions of an employee, such as harassment or discrimination in the workplace. An employer might also be held liable if an employee operates equipment or machinery in a negligent or inappropriate way that results in damages to property or personal injury.



For example, if a construction worker mishandles the controls of a crane and topples the wall of a nearby building, then the company overseeing the construction will likely face vicarious liability. Likewise, if an engineer loses control of a train, and it proceeds down the tracks on its own, then the company that owns and operates the train may face vicarious liability for any resulting damages and injury .



The employer is held liable because it is considered:



Responsible for its employees’ actions while they are on the jobAble to prevent and/or limit any harmful acts performed by its employees






The employer may be able to avoid vicarious liability by exercising reasonable care to prevent the unlawful behavior.


  Example of Vicarious Liability  

In the case of the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill, Exxon Shipping Co. came under vicarious liability for the series of events that led to 10.8 million gallons of crude oil spilling into the sea off Alaska and affecting the shore.



Among other factors, the company was held accountable for lack of supervision of the captain, fatigue among crew members aboard the oil tanker, and the condition of radar equipment that might have helped prevent the ship from running aground.



However, due to the multiple appeals, changing award amount, and gray area of maritime law rule of a ship owner being responsible for actions of an employee, this is a fairly complicated example of vicarious liability.


   Special Considerations  

Another common source of vicarious liability occurs when a child behaves negligently. The parent can sometimes be held vicariously liable for the child’s actions. One situation in which this might occur is if a child injures or kills someone while driving. The parents can bear responsibility for allowing the child to have access to the vehicle.




Is Malicious Intent Required for Vicarious Liability?
Malicious intent is not necessary for vicarious liability. An accidental incident can still result in vicarious liability.




How can you protect yourself from vicarious liability lawsuits?
There are several types of business insurance available that aim to protect business owners from vicarious liability lawsuits including general liability, errors and omissions, and umbrella insurance, which covers anything that falls outside the purview of general liability insurance.




What are some other examples of vicarious liability?
There are many different circumstances where you may be held vicariously liable. If you loan your car to someone and they cause a traffic accident, you could be held vicariously liable. There have also been cases of vicarious liability where police departments were held liable when duty weapons had been used in crimes after weapons were left unsecured during off-duty periods.


   The Bottom Line  

Vicarious liability can occur in a number of situations when one person is held legally responsible for the actions of another person, such as when an employer is responsible for an employee's actions. If you are in a position where you are being held vicariously liable, consider consulting an attorney for guidance on your particular situation.
What Is the Vice Fund?  

The Vice Global Fund, formerly the Vitium Fund, is a mutual fund managed by USA Mutuals that focuses its investments on vice industries often considered socially irresponsible investments or "sin stocks.”



Before this fund was established, "vice fund" was informal slang for any fund that invested heavily in various sin stocks.



The Vice Fund was renamed the Vitium Global Fund on May 23, 2019.



The fund was renamed to its original name, the Vice Fund, on Aug. 4, 2021.





Key Takeaways

The Vice Global Fund, formerly called the Vitium Fund, is a mutual fund managed by USA Mutuals that focuses its investments on vice industries often considered socially irresponsible investments or "sin stocks.”The Fund primarily invests in stocks generating the majority of their revenue from the alcohol, tobacco, gaming, and defense industries. The Vice Fund was renamed the Vitium Global Fund on Oct. 1, 2019, and returned to its original name on Aug. 4, 2021.


   Understanding the Vice Fund  

The Vice Fund primarily invests in stocks generating the majority of their revenue from the alcohol, tobacco, gaming, and defense industries. This encompasses casino operators, gaming equipment manufacturers, defense equipment manufacturers, alcohol producers, and tobacco producers.



The Fund invests in both domestic and foreign-based equities, with its holdings ranging from small-cap to mega-cap companies. It has been in operation since 2002. From May 2014 to October 2016, the Fund was known as the Barrier Fund.



The Fund seeks high-quality dividend-paying stocks in the vice industries and believes these industries have significant barriers to entry, which make successful companies a source of reliable stock returns.



The Fund also believes that its investments are generally market-neutral, meaning that they do well in both down and up markets because of a steady demand for vice industry goods through all market cycles.



The Fund is also broadly diversified internationally, which helps it to avoid broad market volatility. Additionally, it maintains an emphasis on dividend-paying companies with positive cash flow, which provides for income payouts to investors.


   Investing in the Vice Fund  

The Vice Global Fund is structured as an open-end mutual fund with four share classes. Its share classes include A, C, and investor shares as well as institutional shares. It has a management fee of 0.95% with total annual fund operating expenses ranging from 1.24% to 2.24% (net expense ratio).



The Fund can be traded through both full-service and discount brokerages. Its institutional and investor classes require no sales loads. A-shares charge a front-end load of 5.75% and back-end load of 1% through full-service intermediaries. The C-shares charge only a contingent deferred 1% back-end load in the 12 months following an initial purchase.



The Fund has reported fairly steady annual total returns, with dividends consistently contributing to the Fund’s overall return. As of June 30, 2022, the Investor Class has a five-year annualized return of 0.74%, and a 10-year annualized return of 6.79%.



Through June 30, 2022, it reports an annualized return since inception of 7.82% versus the benchmark set at 8.32% by the MSCI All Country World Index. As of Sept. 9, 2022, it has a dividend yield of 0%.



As of Sept. 9, 2022, the Vice Global Fund had total assets under management of $79.2 million. As of June 30, 2022, top holdings in the Fund included Galaxy Entertainment, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon Technologies, and Philip Morris International.
What Is Video Conferencing?  

Video conferencing is an online technology that allows users in different locations to hold face-to-face meetings without having to move to a single location together. This technology is particularly convenient for business users in different cities or even different countries because it saves time, expenses, and hassles associated with business travel. Uses for video conferencing include holding routine meetings, negotiating business deals, and interviewing job candidates.



When a video conference is held for informal purposes, it is called a video call or video chat.





Key Takeaways

Video conferencing is a technology that allows users in different locations to hold real-time face-to-face meetings, often at little to no cost.There are many ways to utilize video conferencing technology, such as company meetings, job training sessions, or addressing board members.Video conferencing saw a huge boost amid the global COVID-19 pandemic.The stability and quality of the video conference may fluctuate with the speed and reliability of the data connection.There are a variety of ways video conferencing can be conducted—such as using smartphones, tablets, or via desktop computers.


   How Video Conferencing Works  

Video conferencing's main advantage over telephone conference calls is that users can see each other, which allows them to develop stronger relationships.



There are a variety of ways video conferencing can be conducted. Individuals may use web cameras connected to or built into laptops, tablets, or desktop computers. Smartphones and other connected mobile devices equipped with cameras may also be used to connect for video conferences. In such instances, a software-based platform typically is used to transmit the communication over internet protocols.



Some businesses use dedicated video conferencing rooms that have been equipped with high-grade cameras and screens to ensure the conversation is clear and with limited technical faults. Third-party providers often install and assemble the hardware needed to conduct the video conference.






The stability and quality of the video conference may fluctuate with the speed and reliability of one's internet data connection.


   Uses of Video Conferencing  

Companies with multiple offices might establish direct video communications between their locations in order to allow their teams to work more collaboratively.



Video conferencing can also be used as a medium for conducting training, with the instructor teaching a remote class from almost anywhere. This can be done in a corporate context, especially for getting workers the knowledge they need to better perform their jobs. The academic world can also make use of video conferencing to connect a traditional classroom setting with students who are located a considerable distance from the school.



A video conference may also be used to conduct regular meetings with company staff or to confer with shareholders about the latest activities at the business. It may be used to announce significant changes at a company, such as introducing a new CEO, or to present information in an interactive way that allows all participants to engage in discussion about what they see on screen.



Hotels and conference centers sometimes make video conferencing services available to guests who require such services. This may be offered in suites or conference rooms that have been equipped for this purpose.






The Investopedia team has dug deep into nearly two dozen platforms and has produced its list of Top Video Conferencing Platforms for 2021.


   Video Conferencing During the 2020-21 COVID-19 Pandemic  

Video conferencing platforms such as Zoom, Skype, and Microsoft Teams saw a surge of interest and use during the 2020-21 COVID-19 pandemic, as lockdowns forced many individuals around the world to work from home and attend online classes.



Video conferencing allowed for professionals to meet with their clients and conduct one-on-one consultations, including financial advisors, therapists, tutors, and lawyers. In fact, some legal proceedings and court cases moved entirely to video conferencing during parts of the pandemic. Doctors and other medical professionals have also adopted telehealth to a much larger degree than before the pandemic.
What Is the Vienna Stock Exchange (WBAG)?  

The Vienna Stock Exchange is the sole securities exchange in Austria and operates the market data hub for Central and Eastern European markets. Operated by the company Wiener Börse AG, the name of the company that operates the exchange. It considers itself a customer and market-oriented company that plays a vital role in Austria’s capital market.



The Vienna Stock Exchange runs the securities exchange and the Energy Exchange Austria (EXAA), a Central European energy exchange also headquartered in Vienna.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Founded in 1711, the Vienna Stock Exchange is the sole securities exchange in Austria, and one of the oldest in the world.The exchange’s trading schedule and hours are Monday through Friday from 8:55 a.m. to 5:35 p.m.As of June 2020, the Vienna Stock Exchange had a market capitalization of more than 90 billion euros, 85 trading members, 117 ETFs, and more than 140 indices.


   Understanding the Vienna Stock Exchange (WBAG)  

The Vienna Stock Exchange operates the equity and bond markets in Austria, in addition to a market for trading in structured products. It provides services such as index development and management, as well as financial market seminars and training. The exchange’s trading schedule and hours are Monday through Friday from 8:55 a.m. to 5:35 p.m.



As of June 2020, the Vienna Stock Exchange had a market capitalization of more than 90 billion euros, 85 trading members, 117 ETFs, and more than 140 indices.



The Vienna Stock exchange considers corporate social responsibility a key part of its business. It states that it has a CSR policy and contributes to the environmentally, socially, and economically sustainable development of Austria. The exchange has two strategic goals. The first is to strengthen the home market and advance investment culture in Austria.



The second is to continue its cooperation network in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE), which encourages international investors to look at the local markets of Central and Eastern Europe. According to the stock change group, its five cornerstones are securities trading and listing, market data, index calculation, IT services, and Central Securities Depository.


   History of the Vienna Stock Exchange  

Founded in 1771 by the empress Maria Theresa, the Vienna Stock Exchange is one of the oldest in the world. In its first years, it was a marketplace for trading bonds, bills of exchange, and foreign currencies. The first time that shares were traded was in 1818, and the first corporation to be listed on the exchange was the Austrian National Bank.



World War I saw the close of the Vienna Stock Exchange until the end of 1919. After the war, the exchange experienced a strong revival, which subsequently ended suddenly in March 1934. The global economic crisis and bank collapse affected exchange trading during these years; however, it should be noted the Stock Market Crash of 1929 in the United States did not have much impact.



In 1938, the incorporation of Austria into the Deutsche Reich caused Wiener Börse to lose its independence. Limited stock market trading continued from then until right before the end of World War II.



After the war, the exchange opened back up in 1948. The stock market was not as robust, but the bond market recovered in 1952. Bond market trading grew until a turnaround in 1985 when an American analyst drew attention to the potential of the Austrian capital market, which triggered a stock boom.
What Is Vintage?  

Vintage is a slang term used by mortgage-backed security (MBS) traders and investors to refer to an MBS that is seasoned over some time period. An MBS typically has a maturity of around 30 years, and a particular issue's "vintage" exposes the holder to less prepayment and default risk, although this decreased risk also limits price appreciation.





Key Takeaways

Vintage is a colloquial term used to describe mortgage-backed securities (MBS) that have been "seasoned." That is, they've been issued long enough, and enough on-time payments have been made, that the risk of default is lower.Vintage is the age of an item as it relates to the year it was created. It's a way to assess the inherent risk of an MBS. Two MBS with the same vintage may have different levels of assumed risk, however, and as a result, different perceived values. 


   How Vintage Works  

The underlying loans of certain vintage MBS have unique characteristics, such as burnout, that make the vintage trade at a premium price. These unique characteristics are a result of how underlying assets in MBS are pooled. MBS' underlying assets are generally grouped across certain geographical regions with similar terms to maturity and interest rates. This makes forecasting payment plans more predictable.



MBS are investment vehicles predominantly issued by a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise (GSE). The investments are comprised of the debt obligations associated with groups of mortgage loans, predominantly residential property loans. The security, representing a particular claim against the principal and interest payments owed by borrowers, is then issued by the creating entity. MBS are traded on the secondary market.


   Vintage as Applied to MBS  

The term vintage relates to the age of an item as it relates to the year it was created. If an item was created in 2012, then the vintage year is 2012, and its age can be determined by subtracting the vintage year from the current year.



The variation in the vintages of particular MBS may represent different levels of risk to investors. With the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis that began in 2007, for example, lenders had started originating large numbers of high-risk mortgages from around 2004 to 2007. Loans from those vintage years displayed higher default rates, and were, therefore, riskier, than loans made before and after.


   Special Considerations  

While the vintage may be one factor used to determine the inherent risk of a certain MBS, other factors are also considered. In this case, two MBS with the same vintage may have different levels of assumed risk and, therefore, may have different perceived values. Some additional factors include the remaining value of the mortgage pool, the current market value of the properties backing the mortgages and the accrued interest.



An MBS payout schedule varies from many other investment vehicles. While bonds may pay semiannually, annually or at the previously agreed-upon maturity date, an MBS pays out to investors on a monthly basis. While a bond payment may only include the earned interest until the maturity date, where a lump sum of the original principal is returned, MBS provide monthly payments of both interest and a portion of the principal. The monthly payment required correlates to the traditional payment schedule of mortgage debtors.
What Is a Vintage Year?  

The term "vintage year" refers to the milestone year in which the first influx of investment capital is delivered to a project or company. This marks the moment when capital is committed by a venture capital fund, a private equity fund or a combination of sources. Investors may cite the vintage year in order to gauge a potential return on investment (ROI).






The vintage year of a private equity fund effectively launches the clock of the 10-year typical lifespan of most term PE funds.


   Understanding Vintage Years  

A vintage year that occurs at the peak or bottom of a business cycle may affect the later returns on the initial investment, as the company may have been overvalued or undervalued at the time. The vintage year provides information regarding the first moment a small business receives substantial investment capital, from one or multiple interests.


   Vintage Years for Comparison  

By observing the trends among other companies with the same vintage year, an overall pattern may emerge, that can be used to potentially identify economic trends at a particular point in time. If certain vintage years perform better than others, these data help investors predict the performance of other companies with identical vintage years, like those other success stories.



For example, 2014 is considered a strong vintage year with respect to crowdfunding platforms such as GoFundMe. Businesses launched through this type of infrastructure, during that time period, have shown strong growth characteristics, as a whole. Since that time, the regulatory climate regarding crowdfunding efforts has tightened, which has only served to further legitimize this activity, suggesting sustained future growth of companies, that were birthed in this manner.


   Impact of Business Cycles  

Most businesses experience economic shifts as a regular part of doing business. This can include seasonal fluctuations experienced by certain business, such as the increase in retail sales during the holiday season or an increase in lawn care product sales in warmer months, as well as other cycles based on the occurrence of certain events, such as major product releases.



The business cycle widely believed to systematically progress through the following four phases:



Upturn
Peak
Decline 
Recovery



During the upturn and up to the peak, the value of the company is seen to increase. During the decline and until the start of recovery, the value of that company is considered to be falling.





Key Takeaways

A vintage year is the milestone year in which the first significant influx of investment capital is delivered to a project or company.During a vintage year, capital may be committed by a venture capital fund, a private equity fund, an individual investor, or a combination of sources.The values of companies with common vintage years, may grow or decline as a group.



The point in the cycle in which the business resided in during the vintage year may skew the appearance of the company’s true value, leaving room for analysis prior to making investment decisions. During peaks in the market, new companies are more likely to be overvalued, based on the current economic outlook. This increases the expectations on an investment's return, due to the fact that larger sums of money are initially contributed.



Inversely, companies are typically undervalued during low points in the market, because less capital is initially contributed, therefore these companies or projects have less pressure to generate substantial returns.

What Is Viral Marketing?  

Viral marketing seeks to spread information about a product or service from person to person by word of mouth or sharing via the Internet or email. The goal of viral marketing is to inspire individuals to share a marketing message with friends, family, and other individuals to create exponential growth in the number of its recipients. 





Key Takeaways

Viral marketing is a sales technique that involves organic or word-of-mouth information about a product or service to spread at an ever-increasing rate.The Internet and the advent of social media have greatly increased the number of viral messages in the form of memes, shares, likes, and forwards.Some marketing campaigns try to trigger virality; however, many times just exactly what goes viral remains a mystery.Once something goes viral, it is an easy and cheap way for a message to gain popularity.Viral marketing can increase a company's reach and, ultimately, its customer base.


   Understanding Viral Marketing  

In the case of viral marketing, "viral" refers to something that spreads quickly and widely across its audience. Viral marketing is a deliberate enterprise, though the distribution of a message happens organically. As such, social media provides the perfect ecosystem for viral marketing, though it has its roots in traditional word-of-mouth marketing.



While the practice was much more widely used in the early to mid-2000s, as new Internet businesses were being created in extreme numbers, it is still common among Internet-based business-to-consumer (B-to-C) companies. The widespread adoption of social media networks—including YouTube, X (formerly Twitter), Instagram, Snapchat, and Facebook—has enabled modern viral marketing efforts and increased their efficacy. 


   Examples of Viral Marketing  

A frequently used example of early viral marketing is Hotmail, the free web-based email service launched in 1996 that included in its users' outgoing messages an embedded advertisement and direct link inviting recipients to sign up for an account. This practice led to the fastest growth among user-based media companies at the time. 



Another example that illustrates how varied viral marketing can be is the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge. The ice bucket challenge existed before The ALS Association utilized it to raise awareness and generate donations; however, the massive dissemination on social media of ALS Ice Bucket videos created a worldwide sensation that tremendously increased ALS awareness.





$115 million

The amount of donations raised from the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge.


   Viral Marketing Characteristics  

All viral marketing examples—deliberate or accidental—have three things in common: the message, messenger, and environment. Each part must be leveraged to create a successful viral marketing campaign. Viral marketing campaigns may be created by any size business and can stand alone or be a part of a larger traditional campaign.



These campaigns may use several tools (e.g., videos, games, images, email, text messaging, and free products) to appeal to the emotions of users or viewers, raise awareness of a worthy cause, and make it easier to consume and share. Viral marketing often relies on the help of an influencer, who has a large network of followers.



With the help of social networks as a "force multiplier," viral marketing is quicker than traditional marketing campaigns, as well as less expensive. Since it can receive so much traffic in a short time, it can also lead to mainstream media attention. Social media can also cause viral marketing efforts to misfire, as messages are altered, misconstrued, considered spam, or called out for missing the mark. Viral marketing success can also be hard to measure.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Viral Marketing  
  Advantages  

Viral marketing allows companies to better market their products by reaching consumers that ordinarily would not be targeted by its traditional marketing campaigns. This expanded reach allows the company to enter new markets and potentially expand its customer base.



When done creatively, companies can trigger viral responses. For example, Burger King created a buzz when it posted pictures of its month-old, moldy Whopper in response to McDonald's claim that its burgers don't decompose. Burger King asserts that it uses only fresh ingredients and no preservatives, which should provide a better and healthier outcome for its customers. Its unappealing-looking burger was visible proof of that claim.



Viral marketing costs are a fraction of traditional advertising campaigns. And advertising is essentially free when consumers infectiously share their positive experiences with a company's products and services with others.



Because the Internet allows content to be shared easily and quickly, viral marketing can also trigger exponential and rapid growth; however, it is important to note that how quickly and easily content is shared is largely dependent on whether the company uses the right tools that make this possible.


  Disadvantages  

Sometimes, viral marketing sparks a response counter to what was intended. Consumers tend to share negative news more often than positive news, and studies show that people have a stronger emotional response to negative news. Negative buzz can be detrimental to business and sometimes hard to recover from.



The effects of viral marketing are hard to measure as it is difficult to determine if a lead or sale resulted from it. And there is no consensus among businesses on how to measure its success.



If customers believe the viral campaign will compromise their privacy and security, they will likely not share. As a result, the company's marketing mission fails, and its reputation may be tarnished. Future viral marketing campaigns may be adversely affected by previous unsuccessful attempts.





Pros

Wider reach
Faster and exponential growth
Lower costs



Cons

Negative word-of-mouth
Hard to measure
Low virality







How Do You Make Money If Your Video Goes Viral?
To make money on a viral video, you must monetize it, generally by requiring subscribers to pay to view it or by allowing companies to advertise to your audience in exchange for a fee. Companies either pay the creator to mention their products or services or run company-created ads before, during, or after their videos.There are other ways to make money from a viral video other than the ones mentioned. For example, creators can license their videos, allowing third parties to use their content.




Why Is Transparency So Important in Viral Marketing?
Being transparent means being honest and open about operations and motives. Transparency in viral marketing is important as consumers are more critical of traditional marketing campaigns and are holding companies accountable for their actions more often than before. Approximately 94% of consumers are likely to be loyal to companies that are transparent in marketing.




What Does "Seeding" Mean in Relation to a Viral Marketing Campaign?
Seeding is a marketing technique in which companies purposefully distribute viral information or content to select users who they think will effectively share the campaign. Most often, social media influencers are chosen as seeds to spread the word and solicit feedback about a product.




What Are the Steps to Start a Viral Marketing Campaign?
First, identify the purpose of going viral. Are you seeking to improve your brand's image or increase awareness? Then, find out more about your audience. Social media reporting is a good source of information about what is preferred by your target audience. The content you want to go viral needs to be configured to where it can be easily and quickly shared. If not, the campaign will likely fail at the start. Make sure that the content you want to be shared is organic and relatable. Lastly, use trends and hashtags to promote the content as they will capture the attention of your followers.




What Are Good Tools for Viral Marketing Campaigns?
There are many tools companies can use in their viral marketing campaigns. Companies can create and sponsor communities, which can be tapped to promote your products or services. Create and promote sweepstakes, contests, and rewards to generate buzz and capture a large audience. Other tools include sponsoring messages and chat blasts.


   The Bottom Line  

Viral marketing is an inexpensive and effective technique for increasing awareness and promoting a brand or product. Companies depend on their audience or targeted users to share advertising campaigns and their positive experiences with others. Successful campaigns can help the company grow, enter new markets, and increase revenues. Companies must choose the right platforms to advertise and format their content to where it can be easily shared. If done poorly, it can produce unfavorable results that could erode earnings and tarnish a company's reputation.
What Is a Viral Website?  

A viral website is a website receiving an abnormally large amount of web traffic, usually within a limited span of time, due to word of mouth, link sharing, and social media sharing. Viral sites typically become popular through being shared on social media or forwarded to friends and family, who then forward it to their own network, causing traffic to the site to grow exponentially.





Key Takeaways

A viral website is a website receiving an abnormally large amount of web traffic, usually within a limited span of time, due to word of mouth, link sharing, and social media sharing.Viral websites and content are highly desired for popularity, fame, and to generate revenue through advertising or product sales, which increase as the audience of the site grows.Although virality is mostly used to describe certain kinds of content, such as videos or social media posts, websites such as BuzzFeed, Upworthy, Reddit, and even X's (formerly Twitter's) trending posts often host viral content.Viral websites can help increase exposure, though companies must be mindful they have the capability to handle the excess short-term traffic.To go viral, companies must be mindful to create easily sharable and likeable content, engage with their audience, and try different approaches across different social media platforms.


   Understanding Viral Websites  

Viral websites and content are highly desired for popularity, fame, and to generate revenue through advertising or product sales, which increase as the audience of the site grows. When people share the website's content with others through social media, email, or other online channels, this results in a rapid increase in traffic and visibility.



The content on a viral website is usually unique, interesting, and shareable. It usually taps into current trends or topics that are popular at the time or may loop in current events or current celebrities. Viral websites can take many forms, such as videos, images, articles, or memes, and they may be created by individuals, companies, or organizations.


   The Concept of "Going Viral"  

Viral websites have been around since the modern version of the Internet emerged in the 1990s. They have some things in common, yet it's hard to predict what will go viral. Virality also has no predetermined definition based on the number of views. The sites are often based on user-generated content, in which a virtuous cycle is created: the more people that visit the site, the more content is generated, and the more traffic is created in return.



Viral websites make it easy to share content with others and remove barriers to users such as onerous registration processes or paywalls. They're often hosted on highly scalable platforms like WordPress, which can adapt to mountainous traffic spikes. The sites often feature user rankings or voting tools to bring the most popular content to the top, as well.



Viral sites are what's known as sticky: they have features that keep visitors there longer. Behind many viral sites are algorithms that constantly look at content and move the most popular items to prominent pages and placements. Many viral sites have irresistible headlines as well, the kind that readers simply can't help clicking on known as "clickbait."



Although virality is mostly used to describe certain kinds of content, such as videos or social media posts, websites such as BuzzFeed, Upworthy, Reddit, and even X's (formerly Twitter's) trending posts often host viral content that is "upvoted" to illuminate virality.



Videos in particular are most likely to go viral the fastest. Weird, touching, funny, and strange events caught on video and uploaded to sites like YouTube can generate millions of views and even end up on network television news. Many of them were not created with the intent of going viral and often feature embarrassing moments.


   Types of Viral Popularity  

A website can achieve different types of viral popularity. Each of these types are formed based on different strategic approaches in the types of content to use and people to leverage to raise the popularity. Below are some of the most common types of viral popularity.


  Organic Virality  

Organic virality occurs when the content on a website is so engaging, unique, and shareable that it spreads naturally through word of mouth, social media, or other online channels. This occurs when people simply love content and want to share it with their networks on their own. Organic virality is often the most desirable type of viral popularity because it is driven by the audience's interest and not by paid promotion.


  Paid Virality  

Paid virality is when a website's content is promoted through paid channels such as social media advertising, influencer marketing, or other forms of paid promotion. Paid virality can be effective, but it requires a significant investment of resources and may not be as sustainable as organic virality. Though paid virality creates exposure for content, it is a form of advertising cost that does not happen on its own and may be short-lasting.






Consider the implications of your customers knowing you are paying in an attempt to go viral. Though there are major marketing implications, you are also sacrificing resources from improving your goods which may alienate customers.


  Influencer Virality  

Influencer virality occurs when an influential person or organization shares the content on their platform. This is often seen when a celebrity or influencer is seen wearing a certain style, then that style becomes extremely popular. Influencer virality may be a paid or non-paid situation.


  News Virality  

News virality occurs when a website's content is picked up by news outlets or media organizations, resulting in widespread coverage and exposure. News virality can be an effective way to reach a large audience quickly but may be difficult to control.


  Trend Virality  

Last, trend virality occurs when a website's content taps into a current trend or popular topic. This strategy results in increased visibility and interest from the audience due to the popularity around an already existing popular item. Trend virality can be effective, but it requires a deep understanding of the audience's interests and behaviors. Note that trend virality may be combined with some of the other forms of virality above, and virality itself may help create trends.


   How to Build a Viral Website  

There is no surefire way to make a website go viral. Instead, it is a combination of strategic planning, quality content creation, and targeted promotion with a little bit of luck that still doesn't guarantee success. Here are some tips to help increase the chances of your website going viral.



Create Shareable Content: The content on your website must be unique. It also must be easy to share. The more compelling and shareable your content is, the more likely it is to go viral especially if you hope to organically have followers redistribute your content.
Leverage Social Media: Make sure to promote your website on your social media channels. Encourage your followers to share your content with their networks. Understand that different forms of social media may be more or less inclined to interact with various types of media.
Use Influencers: Partnering with influencers who have a large following in your niche can help increase visibility and drive traffic to your website. This is especially true if your social media channels do not have a lot of followers. This is also especially helpful when partnering with influential leaders who customers resonate closely with.
Optimize for Search Engines: Search engine optimization (SEO) is essential for driving traffic to your website. Make sure your website is optimized for keywords that are relevant to your target audience.
Offer Incentives: Offering incentives can encourage people to share your website with others. Most often, individuals can have personalized referral links that can be shared with their network.
Engage Your Audience: Engage with your audience by responding to comments and messages on your website and social media channels. This also helps foster a long-term relationship with your network to help foster a viral moment to happen or retain customers after a viral moment has occurred.
Use Different Formats: This is especially true when considering using different media across different platforms. Be mindful of how different forms of media may be easier to reshare or may more strongly resonate with your customers. 






Like may things in life, sometimes things happen when you try for them the least. Websites may become viral without any attempt from a company.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Viral Websites  
  Pros of Viral Websites  

There are many obvious advantages of viral websites. A viral website has the potential to reach a large number of people very quickly, resulting in a significant increase in traffic to the site. This can help increase brand awareness and recognition, bringing great exposure to a company in a very short period of time.



A viral website can be a cost-effective way to market a product or service. A viral website's popularity can spread quickly and organically through social media and other online channels. This can also help improve a site's SEO by generating backlinks and increasing the site's visibility online.



Last, a viral website can potentially lead to higher conversion rates. As the site's content and messaging resonates with a large audience, this can resonate with more people taking action. This also creates more opportunities and exposure for potential customers to purchase goods or sign up for a service.


  Cons of Viral Websites  

Though people often associate viral websites with positive outcomes, there can be massively detrimental downsides to become viral. From an infrastructure perspective, the traffic generated by a viral website can be unpredictable, and it may not always be sustained. Once the initial excitement dies down, traffic to the site may decrease significantly. Should a website not be able to handle the traffic, customers may have a negative experience with technical difficulties.



With increased visibility comes the potential for negative feedback or criticism. This can harm the brand's reputation and lead to a loss of customers. Be mindful that not everyone enjoys every trend, and associating with certain celebrities or influencers may actually upset part of the consumer base.



With a viral website, there is limited control over how people share and interact with the content. This can result in unintended consequences or misinterpretations of the brand's message. It may also distort a company's intended messaging, taking the marketing elements of a company out of the firm's hands.



A viral website may be a short-term success, but it may not be sustainable in the long run. It can be difficult to maintain the momentum and continue to generate viral content over time. For this reason, the quality of the content can be compromised when striving to become viral. Instead of focusing on building long-term resources, striving for a quick hit may lead to a loss of interest from the audience.





Pros

Leads to short-term significant increases in traffic
Creates brand awareness and recognition
Is a cost effective way to get exposure
May improve a company's SEO
May result in higher conversion rates



Cons

May result in unpredictable website traffic that can cause technical difficulties
May result in some negative feedback
Takes marketing control out of the hands of the company
May not be sustainable







How Does a Website Go Viral?
A website can go viral through a combination of strategic planning, quality content creation, and targeted promotion. When likeable, sharable content is created, that content may become intriguing enough to be engaging to a wide audience.




How Many Views Do You Need to Go Viral?
There is no single universally accepted calculation of how many views are needed to go viral. In general, the term simply means that content is popular and being widely distributed in a short period of time.Some marketing and business experts may say content needs to have at least a million views within a week of its initial posting to have gone viral, though different experts will have varying opinions. Also, be mindful of how smaller platforms may have smaller thresholds for having saturated a platform.




How Much Money Does Viral Content Make?
For companies, the value in viral content is not in the actual content itself but in the exposure and opportunity to engage with more customers. A single popular video may create some short-term financial prosperity, but companies should be mindful to leverage resources, customer data, and connections to foster for long-term financial opportunity.


   The Bottom Line  

A viral website is a website that become popular in a short amount of time, often though social media channels. This often occurs when people share content across their network, through e-mail, or through other forms of online distribution. Though viral websites create tremendous opportunity, there are infrastructure, branding, marketing, and publicity downsides to consider.
What Is a Virtual Assistant?  

A virtual assistant is an independent contractor who provides administrative services to clients while operating outside of the client's office. A virtual assistant typically operates from a home office but can access the necessary planning documents, such as shared calendars, remotely.



People employed as virtual assistants often have several years of experience as an administrative assistant or office manager. New opportunities are opening up for virtual assistants who are skilled in social media, content management, blog post writing, graphic design, and internet marketing. As working from home has become more accepted for both workers and employers, particularly in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, the demand for skilled virtual assistants is expected to grow.





Key Takeaways

A virtual assistant is a self-employed worker who specializes in offering administrative services to clients from a remote location, usually a home office.Typical tasks a virtual assistant might perform include scheduling appointments, making phone calls, making travel arrangements, and managing email accounts.Some virtual assistants specialize in offering graphic design, blog writing, bookkeeping, social media, and marketing services.For an employer, one advantage of hiring a virtual assistant is the flexibility to contract for just the services they need.


   How a Virtual Assistant Works  

Virtual assistants have become more prominent as small businesses and startups rely on virtual offices to keep costs down and businesses of all sizes increase their use of the internet for daily operations. Because a virtual assistant is an independent contractor, a business does not have to provide the same benefits or pay the same taxes that it would for a full-time employee. A virtual assistant is different from a salaried administrative assistant who works from home and would have the same compensation and same tax structure as any other full-time employee.



Also, since the virtual assistant works offsite, there is no need for a desk or other workspace at the company's office. A virtual assistant is expected to pay for and provide their own computer equipment, commonly used software programs, and high-speed Internet service.






In a study of over 50 career categories, FlexJobs found virtual administration was one of the top 10 fastest-growing remote career categories.


   Virtual Assistant Duties  

The specific duties of a virtual assistant vary according to the needs of the client and the terms of the contract. Some virtual assistants handle clerical and bookkeeping tasks, while others may post regular updates to social media or write articles for a blog. A well-rounded virtual assistant may also handle travel arrangements, appointment scheduling, data entry, and online file storage.


   Virtual Assistant Qualifications  

While there are no hard-and-fast educational requirements to become a virtual assistant, many clients will look for virtual assistants who have some higher-level education or specialized training. A few online companies and community colleges offer courses and certification for virtual assistant skills.



A virtual assistant should be tech-savvy, having a wide range of computer skills and a high level of proficiency with commonly used software and business programs. A virtual assistant who specializes in bookkeeping should be adept at basic accounting tasks, such as account reconciliations and double-entry bookkeeping.


   Benefits of a Virtual Assistant  

For the client, one advantage of hiring a virtual assistant is the flexibility to contract for just the services they need. Depending on the terms of the agreement, some virtual assistants may be paid by the task rather than by the hour. In contrast, employees in a traditional office setting usually must be paid for a fixed number of hours per day.



For small business owners, hiring a virtual assistant can help them free up valuable hours to focus on growing the business and generating revenue. It can be easier and more cost-effective to outsource tasks that are tedious and time-consuming, to someone who is skilled at them.


   How to Hire a Virtual Assistant  

With the increasing number of freelance contractors who work from home, the employment market has seen a proliferation of Web-based companies that serve as intermediaries between prospective employers and contractors. Some freelancer sites have enormous work pools made up of individuals across the globe with a wide range of experience and expertise.



On these sites, clients can post details about the type of tasks they need the virtual assistant to perform and the maximum rate they are willing to pay. Freelance workers may then bid on the job and give the client samples of their work for review. In some cases, the client can set up a video conference to interview the applicants and to more thoroughly assess their qualifications.


   Special Considerations  

Before hiring a virtual assistant, the client can ensure a smoother working relationship by creating detailed instructions about tasks they need to have performed. A written manual reduces the risk of misunderstandings that can occur in a remote working relationship.




How Can You Become a Virtual Assistant?
Having previous experience as an administrative assistant or support staff member is helpful, but not necessary. Even individuals without past experience can take training courses to learn needed skills, such as the Microsoft Office Suite or other administrative software. Freelance networks such as Upwork and Fiverr provide marketplaces where contractors can seek out positions. Contractors can also seek out work on more traditional job boards or through networking sites such as LinkedIn.




How Hard Is It to Be a Virtual Assistant?
A virtual assistant has some of the same challenges as an in-person assistant, including working with a variety of programs, managing and prioritizing competing tasks and answering to an employer. What's different is that the virtual assistant is doing all of this remotely, without frequent in-person interaction, in a different location than their employer. This may be a less stressful environment for many employees. However, it's also an environment without any technical support staff on hand if there are any technological problems.




How Much Can You Earn As a Virtual Assistant?
The compensation varies depending on what the assignment is and who you're working for. According to job search site Indeed, the national average for virtual assistants is just over $25 per hour, particularly for more basic administrative assistant jobs. Jobs with a higher value skill set, such as design, can command a higher price. Some of these jobs are advertised on standard job sites, such as Robert Half, Monster, and Indeed and have established hourly rates. For contractors who advertise their services on sites such as Upwork or Fiverr set their own rates and therefore can charge more. Facebook and other social media platforms also advertise for virtual assistants.


   The Bottom Line  

A virtual assistant is a remote administrative assistant who works for a company or individual on a self-employed, or contract basis. A virtual assistant helps with office management work but can also tackle a variety of writing, editing, design, marketing and social media-related activities. A virtual assistant works remotely, using technology to complete assignments, despite not being in a physical office alongside their co-workers or employers. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, many employees worked virtually, not only as assistants, but in a variety of capacities.
A virtual currency is a digital representation of value only available in electronic form. It is stored and transacted through designated software, mobile, or computer applications. Transactions involving virtual currencies occur through secure, dedicated networks or over the Internet. They are issued by private parties or groups of developers and are mostly unregulated.



Virtual currencies are a subset of digital currencies and include other types of digital currencies, such as cryptocurrencies and tokens issued by private organizations. The advantages of virtual currencies include faster transaction speeds and ease of use. The disadvantages of virtual currencies are that they can be hacked and do not provide much legal recourse to investors because they are not regulated.





Key Takeaways

Virtual currencies are digital representations of value whose transactions occur on online networks or on the internet.All virtual currencies are digital currencies, but the opposite is not true.Virtual currencies are issued by private organizations or groups of developers and are mostly unregulated.Virtual currencies increase transaction speeds by removing intermediaries from the process, but they are also susceptible to hacks and online scams.


   Understanding Virtual Currencies   

Virtual currencies are a form of digital currency. They are issued by private parties, such as a group of developers or organizations, and are intended only for online use—they do not have a physical incarnation like paper money. Thus, they are different from digital representations of central bank-issued currency, also known as central bank digital currency (CBDC). 



The term virtual currency came into existence in 2012, when the European Central Bank (ECB) defined it to classify types of "digital money in an unregulated environment, issued and controlled by its developers and used as a payment method among members of a specific virtual community." The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the United States describes virtual currencies as "digital representations of value that function as a unit of account, a store of value, and a medium of exchange."  



Both definitions, though broad enough to encompass multiple attributes of virtual currencies, may not be entirely correct today.



The universe of currencies that may be considered virtual has expanded considerably since 2012 to include various forms of money that do not adhere to the ECB's definition of the term. For example, certain cryptocurrencies, which are considered a form of virtual currency, like Ripple's XRP, are not strictly controlled or used by a virtual community.



Virtual currencies have also failed to take off as a payment method or medium of exchange in mainstream society. They have restricted usage, sometimes in gaming communities and other times as a speculative investment asset. Whether they have emerged as a store of value, like gold, also remains questionable.



There's also the question about regulation. Though virtual currencies remain unregulated in the vast majority of financial jurisdictions, that situation is slowly beginning to change. Bitcoin, the cryptocurrency with the biggest market capitalization, is legal tender in El Salvador.



In the United States, home to the world’s most sophisticated financial markets, virtual currencies are unregulated. But regulation is seriously being considered by authorities. The trading watchdog Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) wants to bring cryptocurrency exchanges under its supervision. Regulation for stablecoins, another form of virtual currency, is also in the cards. The IRS taxes trades that involve certain types of virtual currencies, such as cryptocurrencies.






The Federal Reserve released a discussion paper in January 2022 on the pros and cons of a possible U.S. central bank digital currency (CBDC). The central bank identified the paper as one for discussion rather than a verdict on any policy outcome, and invited the public to comment on its contents.


   Types of Virtual Currencies   

Depending on their operating network, virtual currencies are classified as follows: 


  Closed virtual currency  

A closed virtual currency, as the name suggests, operates in a controlled and private ecosystem. It cannot be converted into another virtual currency or into a real-world fiat currency. Examples of closed virtual currencies are currencies in gaming systems. Though such currencies can be used in their respective environments (in this case games), they cannot be converted into real-world cash. Another example of closed virtual currencies is airline miles. They are issued by private parties, can only purchase additional miles, and cannot be converted into their associated monetary value.  


  Open virtual currency   

Open virtual currencies are also known as convertible virtual currencies because they can be converted to other forms of money. They operate in open ecosystems and can be converted into another currency either within the platform or outside it. Examples of open virtual currencies are stablecoins and cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin and Ethereum, the two biggest cryptocurrencies by market capitalization, can be converted into other cryptocurrencies or certain fiat currencies. This conversion process is considered a trade transaction by the IRS and is taxed. 



Though most open virtual currencies have a decentralized setup, certain cryptocurrencies like Ripple's XRP are centralized in design, meaning a central agency is responsible for their production and distribution. 






Initial coin offering (ICO) tokens can be open or closed virtual currencies, depending on the network that they operate in and their intended use.


   Advantages of Virtual Currencies   

The advantages of virtual currencies are as follows: 



Virtual currencies do not have expensive manufacturing and physical storage costs.
The technology rails of virtual currencies increase transaction speeds and eliminate geographical boundaries.
Decentralized virtual currencies can eliminate intermediaries during monetary transactions and establish a direct connection between two transacting parties.
Virtual currencies can be programmed to complete automated transactions. For example, smart contracts on Ethereum's blockchain can hold and release money in escrow accounts without human intervention.
Virtual currencies are digital repositories of value and can assign value to disparate sets of objects, from gaming tokens to artwork.


   Disadvantages of Virtual Currencies   

The disadvantages of virtual currencies are as follows:



Virtual currencies are attractive targets for hackers. There have been several cases of hacking blockchain networks for cryptocurrencies, a form of virtual currency.
Though they do not have manufacturing or physical storage costs, virtual currencies have other associated expenses. For example, cryptocurrency users are required to store them in digital wallets. At trading exchanges, cryptocurrencies also have custody costs.
Virtual currencies can be subject to scams. Several initial coin offerings (ICOs), which became popular in the aftermath of a runup in cryptocurrency prices, were actually scams in which private developers sold worthless tokens for hypothetical networks. The tokens could not be converted into other currencies.
Unregulated virtual currencies do not offer legal recourses to investors because they are issued by private entities and, for the most part, are not regulated by financial authorities.
Virtual currencies traded on exchanges, such as cryptocurrencies, can be subject to highly volatile price swings.


   Differences Between Digital Currencies, Virtual Currencies, and Cryptocurrencies  

Even though they sound alike and function in a similar manner, digital, virtual, and cryptocurrencies are in fact different. Listed below are the main points of difference between the three types of currencies:



All virtual currencies and cryptocurrencies are digital currencies. Not all digital currencies, however, belong to those two categories. For example, CBDCs are not virtual currencies or cryptocurrencies.Digital currencies can be regulated or unregulated. One example of a regulated digital currency is CBDC. Examples of unregulated digital currencies are Bitcoin and Ethereum. The overwhelming majority of virtual currencies are unregulated, while cryptocurrencies are not regulated in any jurisdiction.Not all digital currencies are cryptographically secured. Cryptocurrencies always use cryptography to secure their networks, while virtual currencies may or may not use cryptography to secure their networks.




What Are Virtual Currencies?
Virtual currencies are digital representations of value whose transactions are conducted only through electronic networks or the Internet. They do not have a physical incarnation. 




What Are the Types of Virtual Currencies?
Depending on the type of network they operate in, virtual currencies can be divided into open and closed virtual currencies. The former function in an open ecosystem and can be converted into other virtual currencies or fiat currencies, while the use and issue of the latter are restricted to the closed ecosystem.




What Is the Difference Between Virtual Currency, Digital Currency and Cryptocurrency?
All virtual currencies and cryptocurrencies are digital currencies. But the opposite is not true — not all digital currencies are virtual currencies or cryptocurrencies. For example, CBDCs are digital currencies, but they are neither virtual currencies, which are unregulated, nor cryptocurrencies, which are decentralized networks.




What Are the Advantages of Digital Currencies?
Virtual currencies do not require manufacturing or physical storage costs. They also speed up transactions by eliminating intermediaries from the process and eliminate geographical boundaries. Virtual currencies can also be programmed for certain transactions, such as the release of escrow funds.




What Are the Disadvantages of Digital Currencies?
The digital makeup of virtual currencies makes them attractive targets for hackers. Virtual currencies also have associated costs, such as digital wallets and custody, for their storage and maintenance. As the ICO boom-and-bust cycle showed, the virtual currency ecosystem is also susceptible to scams.


   The Bottom Line   

Virtual currencies are digital representations of value that can exist only in electronic form. Their transactions occur on online networks or the Internet. Examples of virtual currencies include tokens and cryptocurrencies. Virtual currencies are a novel form of currency and, as such, are mostly unregulated. But that situation is changing, and an increasing number of government agencies and countries are considering the implications of introducing virtual currencies into their economies.
What Is a Virtual Data Room?  

A virtual data room (VDR), also known as a deal room, is a secure online repository for document storage and distribution. It is typically utilized during the due diligence process preceding a merger or acquisition to review, share, and disclose company documentation.





Key Takeaways

Virtual Data Rooms, or VDRs, exist as a secure way to store documents that multiple people need access to simultaneously.VDRs are commonly used by businesses when they are merging, working on a project, or other joint venture that requires access to shared data.VDRs are considered more secure than physical documents as there is no risk of loss during transit or being destroyed accidentally.Generally, actions like copying, printing, and forwarding are disabled in VDRs. 


   Understanding Virtual Data Rooms  

Virtual data rooms have increasingly replaced physical data rooms traditionally used to disclose and share documents. With the globalization of business and increased scrutiny to reduce costs, virtual data rooms are an attractive alternative to physical data rooms. Virtual data rooms are widely accessible, immediately available, and more secure.



As security concerns grow and incidents with breaches increase, VDR providers are developing more sophisticated and reliable databases. Initial public offerings (IPOs), auditing operations, and partnerships or other businesses that must work jointly and share information will use virtual data rooms.


   Uses of Virtual Data Rooms  

Mergers and acquisitions (M&A) procedures are the most common use of VDRs. These repositories provide a place for the due diligence needed during the finalization of the deal. These business transactions involve large amounts of documents, many of which are confidential and contain sensitive information. Using a VDR is a safe and reliable way for all interested parties to review and exchange documents as they engage in negotiations.



Businesses often work with one another to produce and manufacture products during the construction of a building and to offer services. Forming and maintaining these business relationships requires contracts and the frequent transmission of data. Virtual data rooms provide for the storage of these contracts and make readily available documents needed for the continuance of business partnerships. As an example, changes made to the blueprints of a structure by an engineer are immediately available to all contractors involved in the project.



Auditing company practices, compliance, and accounts is a common practice in all businesses. This process is frequently a problem as workers must interact with external regulators and adjusters. Also, today many companies have offices in remote locations and around the globe in various time zones.



The use of a virtual data room allows attorneys, accountants, internal and external regulators, and other interested parties to have a centralized point of access. Providing a central system reduces errors and time. Also, it provides for communication transparency. Depending on the type of audit, the level of access, and authority varies.



Offering an initial public offering (IPO) is a daunting task requiring an inconceivable amount of paperwork. Like audits, transparency is essential. Companies must create, exchange, retain, and manage large volumes of documents. Because of the nature of the transaction, most users will have restricted access, such as "view only." The ability to copy, forward, or print may be prohibited.


   Alternative to a VDR  

Although virtual data rooms offer many benefits, they are not suitable for every industry. For example, some governments may elect to continue using physical data rooms for highly confidential exchanges of information. The damage from potential cyber-attacks and data breaches exceeds the benefits offered by virtual data rooms. The results of such events could be cataclysmic if threatening parties accessed classified information. In those instances, the use of a VDR will not be a consideration.
What Is a Virtual Good?  

A virtual good is an intangible asset that is traded in a virtual economy, such as in online games. Virtual goods are by definition nonphysical; their value is determined solely by what users are willing to pay for them.



The market for virtual goods has experienced exponential growth in recent years, spurred by the growing popularity of social media platforms.





Key Takeaways

Virtual goods are intangible assets traded in virtual economies, such as in online games.The market for virtual goods has exploded in recent years, with annual revenues estimated to be over $52 billion.﻿﻿The line between physical and virtual goods may blur in the years ahead as transactions involving the exchange of physical and virtual assets become more common.


   Understanding Virtual Goods  

To those unfamiliar with the phenomenon of virtual goods, it may be difficult to understand how companies are able to charge significant sums of money for assets that have no presence in the real world. Nevertheless, their popularity is undeniable. In 2012, the popular online game FarmVille, published by Zynga Inc. (ZNGA), generated over $1 billion in revenue from the sale of virtual goods.﻿﻿ More recently, the free-to-play video game "Fortnite" sold $1 billion worth of virtual goods in 2018.﻿﻿ Globally, recent estimates for annual virtual-goods revenues have totaled over $52 billion.﻿﻿



One way of understanding the popularity of virtual goods is by viewing them not as a product, but as a service. This is because, for their customers, they enhance and improve the experience of the game or community in which they spend their time. This is especially clear considering that many of the games in which virtual goods are most popular are in fact free to play, meaning the decision to purchase virtual goods is truly voluntary.



Yet despite their popularity, virtual goods do come with unique challenges. Because of their virtual nature, virtual goods can be lost due to hacking or technical glitches. Likewise, their legal status can become unclear, especially when several layers of historical transactions are involved. Many platforms have sought to encrypt virtual goods transactions in order to protect against these risks.


   Real-World Example of a Virtual Good  

In the years ahead, it is likely that the line differentiating physical goods from virtual goods will begin to blur. Indeed, this process has already begun. In China, the practice of trading virtual goods for physical ones became so widespread that the Chinese government had to ban the practice in 2009.﻿﻿ Likewise, Zynga Inc. announced in March 2012 that it had launched a partnership with Frito-Lay whereby buyers of Frito-Lay chips would find coupon codes for virtual goods redeemable inside their games' virtual economies.﻿﻿



It is also likely that the total size of the virtual goods market will continue to surge, driven by the growth of online gaming. This will likely increase demand for avatars, power-ups, and other in-game items through in-app purchases, which are being made increasingly convenient by app developers. There is likely to also be increased demand for items that impart prestige to users or are otherwise rare. For example, a user of the online science fiction game Entropia Universe paid $330,000 in 2009 for a virtual space station.
What Is a Virtual Office?  

A virtual office gives businesses a physical address and office-related services without the overhead of a long lease and administrative staff. With a virtual office, employees can work from anywhere but still have things like a mailing address, phone answering services, meeting rooms, and videoconferencing.


   How Virtual Offices Work  

Virtual offices operate as one unit to serve customers but do not exist in a fixed location. This type of setup is especially popular with startups and small businesses that want to minimize overhead. The creation of web-based office productivity software and services, such as videoconferencing, has helped drive the growth in virtual offices.





Key Takeaways

A virtual office is a company that operates as one unit and has a physical mailing address, but does not exist in one specific location.The development of tools such as videoconferencing and messaging services has led to the increased usage of the virtual office.The costs of operating a virtual office are much less than a traditional office, and that's why this type of setup is popular among small businesses and startups.A virtual office arrangement expands job options for employees and hiring options for businesses.While the virtual office is typically a less expensive option for business, some services, like phone answering and videoconferencing, might have limited accessibility.



A virtual office can also lead to greater productivity, as its services free workers from administrative tasks, as well as commutes. Each employee can work from the location that is most convenient, and the business is not restricted to hiring employees who live locally.



As more people find ways to work remotely, the benefits of a virtual office are immediately noticeable. However, not everything is as easy as it seems. Some may find scheduling of virtual office space no different than the time-consuming scheduling conflicts inherent in a physical office.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Virtual Office  

The appeal of a virtual office to users is twofold. First, the monthly cost of a virtual office is far less than that of a traditional office. After all, it has none of the maintenance and upkeep costs, nor does it need to be staffed. A virtual office can also be secured via a month-to-month lease, so there is greater flexibility if a user's business changes (no waiting for a lease to expire or incurring the cost of a broken lease).



Costs for using a virtual office can range from under $40 to more than $200 per month. The more services that are added on, the more expensive it will be.



Second, a virtual office can provide a mailing address, telephone answering, and videoconferencing services. Therefore, a small business can appear larger than it is. It also can provide a physical address (or multiple addresses) for users to meet clients. Sometimes, the address can lend an aura of prestige to a virtual office user, such as if the address is a well-known location or street. A professional phone answering service can have the same effect.



Some of the services that a virtual office arrangement offers require pre-planning to utilize. For example, many packages come with limited use of conference rooms or limited teleconferencing and videoconferencing services. Virtual offices also may have restricted access on nights and weekends. Users may find the lack of flexibility limiting and inconvenient. There is also the potential for distractions that come with working from home and therefore some workers might not be as productive when operating in a virtual office environment.

What Is Vis Major?  

Vis major is a Latin term that means "superior force" and describes an irresistible natural occurrence that causes damage or disruption and that is neither caused by nor preventable by humans—even when exercising the utmost skill, care, diligence, or prudence.



Examples of vis major include hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and earthquakes. The terms act of God, natural disaster, and force majeure are synonymous with vis major. These terms are commonly used in contracts to exclude one or both parties from liability and fulfilling their contractual obligations when events beyond their control occur.



If you have insurance on any property, it is a good idea to fully review your policy to determine what is covered and what is not.






Vis major can also be referred to as an act of God, a natural disaster, or a force majeure.


   Understanding Vis Major  

Vis major or force majeure clauses are standard in many contracts, and exempt the contracting parties from fulfilling their contractual obligations for reasons that could not be anticipated or are beyond their control. In commercial contracts, vis major can also apply to actions undertaken by third parties that neither party to the contract can control, such as failure by a supplier or subcontractor to perform.



The term can also apply to events such as war, riots, or strikes. Whether or not events caused by humans, such as war or riots, are included in vis major may depend on the legal jurisdiction under which the contract is signed. Because there can be different interpretations across jurisdictions, it is often the case that contracts—especially at an international level—will specifically define what is covered under a vis major clause.



The parties will often simply be suspended from performing their obligations during the course of the vis major if it is an event that has a finite duration and that does not permanently affect the ability to deliver on the contract.


   Events Vis Major Does Not Cover  

Because vis major is intended to exclude unforeseen and unpreventable events, it does not cover negligence or malfeasance. It also doesn't cover normal and expected natural events. So while a hurricane would fall under vis major normal seasonal rainfall would not.



Insurance contracts often exclude coverage for damage caused by vis major, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, and floods. This means the owner is on the hook for any costs associated with replacement or repair to the property without any help from the insurer, even if a policy is in place. A finding that an adverse event was caused by vis major can also exempt a defendant in a lawsuit from liability.





Key Takeaways

Vis major is a Latin term meaning superior force, describing an irresistible natural occurrence that causes damage or disruption.These events are neither caused by nor preventable by humans, even when exercising the utmost skill, care, diligence, or prudence.Examples include hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and earthquakes, which can also be called acts of God.Insurance policies may or may not cover damages resulting from vis major, so it's important for the insured to completely review policies.


   Special Coverage for Vis Major  

These events, though, can sometimes be insured against with a rider or separate, specialized policy. Some policies even come with clauses that provide coverage for events that fall under the vis major umbrella. This extra coverage generally comes with an additional price tag—often at extremely high rates—at the expense of the property owner.



Insurance companies may still allow for coverage in places where the chance of an act like a flood or earthquake is unlikely. Rates may stay relatively reasonable and affordable because the likelihood of an insurer ever having to make a payout because of these reasons is very slim.



In many cases, car owners who have comprehensive automobile coverage with their insurance companies are generally covered for acts such as fallen trees or hitting large animals like deer or moose while on the highway. If a claim is filed with the insurance company, it will have to pay for repairs or replacement, unless otherwise stated in the policy.
What Is a Visa Card?  

A Visa card is a payment card that uses the Visa network and is branded with a Visa logo. The San Francisco-based company began with just credit cards but later branched out to include debit, prepaid, and gift cards, as well. Although Visa cards bear the Visa name and logo, they are not issued by the company itself. Instead, they are issued by partner financial institutions, such as banks.





Key Takeaways

Visa cards are payment cards that use the Visa network for transactions.They are not issued by Visa itself but by partner financial institutions.Visa cards come with a 16-digit account number, microchip, magnetic stripe, and other features.Types of Visa cards include credit cards, debit cards, prepaid cards, and gift cards.


   How Visa Cards Work  

Visa is a prominent processing network, and its cards are accepted by businesses in more than 200 countries and territories around the world. Other major payment processing networks include Mastercard, American Express, and Discover.



Financial institutions typically partner with a single processing network provider such as Visa for all of their payment card products. Each issuer sets its own terms and conditions for the Visa cards it offers and decides on the customers to whom it will offer them. Visa cards are available to individual and business customers through a range of financial institution partnerships.



Visa also partners with merchants through varying types of service agreements. Merchants that accept Visa cards pay Visa Inc. a transaction fee each time a customer uses their Visa card.



All Visa cards come with a unique 16-digit number that is printed or embossed on the front along with an embedded microchip intended to provide the cardholder with additional protection against fraud. There's also a magnetic stripe on the back, with a panel for the cardholder's signature and a three-digit validation code.






Although they're branded with the Visa name, Visa cards are issued by financial institutions, not by Visa itself.


   Types of Visa Cards  

As noted above, there are several different types of payment cards that are branded with the Visa logo and that use the Visa payment processing network: credit cards, debit cards, prepaid cards, and gift cards. Here is how each of them works.


   Visa Credit Cards  

Banks and other financial institutions issue Visa credit cards to consumers whom they deem creditworthy based on their credit report and other information. Like other types of credit cards, Visa credit cards provide cardholders with convenience and security and can be used at merchants and automated teller machines (ATMs) around the world.



Depending on the particular card and issuer, some Visa cards have features such as 0% introductory annual percentage rates (APRs), cash back rewards, and special benefits when shopping with a particular retailer. All Visa credit cards come with the Visa Zero Liability Policy, which reduces cardholders' liability for unauthorized transactions to $0. (Under federal law their liability is generally limited to $50.)



Visa cards can charge a range of fees, again depending on the card and its issuer. Those may include annual fees, foreign transaction fees, cash advance fees, balance transfer fees, late payment fees, and many others. The interest rate on the card is determined by the issuer.


   Visa Debit Cards  

Visa debit cards are linked to a cardholder's bank account, typically a checking account. Like a credit card, they can be used to make purchases at retailers as well as to perform routine bank transactions at a branch or through an ATM. Unlike credit cards, debit cards do not extend credit but are limited to the amount of money in the cardholder's bank account.



As with Visa credit cards, Visa debit cards come with the Visa Zero Liability Policy for unauthorized transactions.


   Visa Prepaid Cards  

Prepaid cards work like debit cards but are not associated with a bank account. Instead they come loaded with a specific amount of money that acts as a credit limit. This means the cardholder can’t spend more than the amount loaded onto the card. Visa's prepaid cards can be used anywhere Visa is accepted and can be reloaded for future use.



In addition to its all-purpose prepaid cards, Visa has several types of specialized prepaid cards. Those include:



Payroll cards. Rather than issuing their employees checks or making direct deposits into their bank accounts, employers can pay them by regularly loading their pay onto a Visa payroll card, which then works like any other prepaid card.



Government payment cards. Some states use these cards to pay monthly unemployment benefits. The federal government also used them to distribute benefits as part of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act).


   Visa Gift Cards  

Gift cards with the Visa logo are preloaded with a specific amount just like a prepaid card and may be used wherever Visa is accepted. The principal difference between them and prepaid cards is that gift cards can't be reloaded.




What Is the Difference Between Visa and Mastercard?
Both Visa and Mastercard are vast, worldwide payment networks and very similar in their operations. Neither issues its own credit cards but instead partners with banks and other financial institutions that do. Consumers with both types of cards in their wallets are likely to notice little or no difference between them. By contrast, American Express and Discover are also payment networks but issue credit cards through their own banking affiliates.




Does Visa Have Secured Credit Cards?
Yes, some financial institutions issue secured credit cards with the Visa logo. Secured cards are a type of credit card tailored to people with poor credit or little or no credit history. To qualify for one, the individual must deposit a sum of money in a bank account, which then serves as their credit line. After they have used a secured card for a certain period—and paid their bills on time—they can often graduate to a regular, unsecured credit card.




What Do the Microchips on Visa Cards Do?
The microchips embedded on the front of Visa cards (and other brands of cards) carry encrypted information about the cardholder and their account. They are designed to be more secure than the magnetic stripes on the cards' backs, which carry much the same information. Most cards today have both chips and stripes because some merchants have not yet switched over to sales terminals compatible with chip technology.


   The Bottom Line  

Visa is a major payment card processing network, and cards bearing its logo are widely accepted worldwide. Whatever type of card a consumer might be looking for, a Visa-affiliated issuer probably offers it.
What Is Visibility?  

The term "visibility" is used to portray the extent to which a company's management or analysts can estimate future performance. Visibility can range from low to high or from the near term to the long-term.



When executives or equity analysts talk about visibility, they are referring to sales or earnings. Management may comment on visibility in press releases, during earnings conference calls, or at investment bank-sponsored meetings or conferences. Analysts can discuss visibility in their research reports with clients to help them make investment decisions for their portfolios.





Key Takeaways

The term visibility describes the extent to which a company's management or analysts can estimate future performance.Visibility ranges from high to low or from the near-term to the long-term.When there is high visibility, there is confidence in the projections, while low visibility tends to mean that confidence is low.Visibility can be affected by the state of the economy such that there is high visibility during a strong economy and low visibility when times are tough.Visibility can help investors determine the best investment decisions for their portfolios.


   Understanding Visibility  

Visibility occurs when a company's executive team or market analysts make predictions about its future earnings or sales figures. Having visibility is one indicator that the processes put into place by the management team are followed by the rest of the team.



Companies are optimized for better performance if management has high and full visibility in the organization. High visibility generally means they are confident in their projections. Low visibility, on the other hand, means the opposite; that their confidence is low. Low visibility primarily happens when there is a shift in the economic cycle or changes in the market.



Executives typically prefer not to discuss low visibility, as this may make investors feel uneasy. But it's not entirely avoidable, so it may be necessary that management set reasonable expectations in the market for the company's stock. Management that boasts high visibility, on the other hand, should offer caveats to its optimistic outlook in case expectations for growth are not realized in the future.






Visibility is categorized as high and low. High for high confidence in predictions and low for low confidence for future performance.


   Expressing Visibility in Time  

Aside from the low-to-high portrayal spectrum, visibility can be characterized by the length of time. For example, it can cover the short-term—as in a single quarter—or the long-term. It may even allude to a specific interval such as "from now to the end of the calendar year."



A company with low short-term earnings visibility may be questioned why this is the case if a competitor has high short-term visibility. A company that states it has strong earnings visibility over the long term will be regarded in a favorable light by investors. An analysis of the reasons for this high visibility would be useful for investors to better understand a company's business model.


   The Economy's Effect on Visibility  

The amount of visibility for a company is largely dependent on the state of the economy. When an economy is stable and growing, a company may have high visibility to confidently project sales or earnings.



But when the economy is weak or at cross-currents, a company will not likely have much visibility. When times are uncertain, a business is more likely to refrain from providing sales or earnings guidance to analysts and investors.



When visibility is low but the business's operations are otherwise sound, this does not necessarily present the company in a negative light as its core operations are still a good investment. If it has the ability to ride out the economic downturn, then it could still be a positive investment due to its strong fundamentals.



In some instances, a company may be able to see a clear path for the growth of its business, no matter the economic environment. This is particularly true if the organization is in the process of launching or ramping up deliveries of products for which there is solid demand.


   Visibility vs. Transparency  

Visibility should not be confused with transparency. Even though the two terms are often used interchangeably, they are very different. While the former is a projection of a company's future performance, the latter describes how accessible information is by a company and its management team.



A company is transparent when it openly and freely provides financial information, such as reports, prices, and production practices to its shareholders, its employees, or the general public.




What Does Visibility Mean?
The term visibility describes the extent to which a company's management or analysts can estimate future performance. Visibility is considered a key aspect of management and is a requirement for many businesses in order to make their business run better.




How Do Businesses Gain Visibility?
Businesses can gain visibility by paying extreme attention to all numerical data for their business. This can mean making sure that all receipts are kept, expenditures are logged, numbers are exact (not rounded or guessed at), and proper, timely bookkeeping practices are upheld.




Why Is Visibility Important in Business?
Visibility ensures that businesses have the greatest understanding of their financial situation. It allows the business to assess both its short-term and long-term financial status in a much more accurate way, thus resulting in more accurate projections and financial models.
What Is Visible Supply?  

Visible supply is the amount of a good or commodity that is currently being stored or transported that is available to be bought or sold. This supply is important as it identifies a definite quantity of goods available for purchase or delivery upon the assignment of futures contracts. For instance, all of the wheat held in granaries or storage facilities, along with the wheat being transported from farms constitutes part of the visible supply.



In the municipal bond markets, the 30 day visible supply refers to the total par value (face value) of all new issue municipal bonds that are expected to be coming to market in the next 30 days.





Key Takeaways

The visible supply refers to the quantity of some good or asset that is available for sale, or is en route to be available.In securities markets, such as for muni bonds, the visible supply refers to the total volume in dollars of municipal bonds with maturities of 13 months or more that are expected to reach the market over the next 30 days.The visible supply gives an indication of the supply side of the market.


   Understanding Visible Supply  

Prices in the market are said to be determined by the law of supply and demand - the more supply of some good available affects the demand (and vice versa). Therefore, being able to account for the supply of commodities is of crucial importance to these markets and their related futures markets. In general, an increase in visible supply is considered to be a bearish signal, while a decrease is considered a bullish one.



However, the price of a good is not completely influenced by the amount of visible supply. Because commodities, such as wheat or oil, are often purchased through futures, options, or forward contracts long before the date of actual physical delivery, prices are more likely to be influenced by the future supply rather than what is available at that moment. Future supply, or supply which is currently in processing or preparation, is said to be part of the invisible supply, since it cannot (yet) be counted and accounted for.


   Visible vs. Invisible Supply  

Visible supply stands in contrast to invisible supply, which refers to an unknown or unquantifiable amount of physical stock of a commodity that will eventually be available for delivery upon settlement of a futures contract.



Unlike the visible supply, this amount of supply underlying a futures contract exists, but it hasn't yet been accumulated, stored, or set aside for delivery; whereas any such stock of a commodity that has been accounted for is the "visible" supply.


   30 Day Visible Supply in Municipal Bond Markets  

In municipal bond markets, the 30 day visible supply is used to estimate the health of the market for new issues. It is an indication of how much new debt is expected to come to market. The 30 day visible supply is published in The Bond Buyer, a trade publication for members of the municipal bond industry that began as a daily newspaper over 100 years ago, and now provides sophisticated real-time market data via a subscription-based digital version.



An increase in the visible supply of bonds is bearish for prices as more bonds will increase the supply of new debt. Likewise, a fall in the 30 day visible supply is bullish for bond prices.
What Is Vision Care Insurance?  

Vision care insurance will often cover routine eye health expenses such as eye exams, contact lens fittings, contact lenses, and eyeglass lenses and frames. Some plans may even provide a discount on LASIK procedures and other corrective surgeries.



A vision care plan may cover the cost of these items in total, up to a preset limit, or it may require the policyholder to pay a flat fee or percentage fee to share the expense with the insurer.





Key Takeaways

Vision care insurance usually covers preventative and routine eye care.This eye care insurance is often a value add-on to larger insurance packages.Vision care insurance may cover contact lenses and eyeglasses frames and lenses, making them more affordable for purchase.Employers, unions, government plans, and even associations may provide some form of vision insurance.


   Understanding Vision Care Insurance  

Vision care insurance tends to be inexpensive compared to other types of insurance because many of the covered costs are predictable and expensive claims are rare. It resembles a discount plan more closely than an actual insurance plan because insurance protects against unforeseen and potentially catastrophic expenses.



It's essential you fully understand each plan's costs and the benefits they come with when you buy vision care insurance. Take a look at the price for one year of vision insurance compared with the cost of an eye exam. Although vision care insurance is inexpensive, it may not be a good deal for the consumer if the premiums and co-payments under the plan are higher than paying for vision care expenses out of pocket.






The cost of vision care insurance depends on your plan but you may pay as little as $5 a month for a basic plan from your employer or buying a plan directly from a provider. For example, VSP Vision insurance offers a $13 a month premium.


   Special Considerations  

Eye diseases, which are unpredictable and expensive to treat, will generally be covered by health insurance, not vision care insurance. Vision care coverage through many employer-sponsored health plans generally works a little differently than other health insurance or major medical insurance plans.



Because eye exams can detect hidden medical problems, even those with perfect vision should get one from time to time. As someone ages, they'll need more frequent vision exams, according to the Mayo Clinic. People with poor vision, a family history of eye disease, or a condition that increases the risk of eye disease like diabetes should have more frequent exams. If routine exams are all that will be needed, then the cost of insurance probably isn't worth it.






Before purchasing eye care insurance, think about what you need in regard to your health, and what offerings that insurance provides that you will use, such as discounted lenses.


   Availability of Vision Care Insurance  

Vision care insurance can often be obtained through your employer, association union, or government programs like Medicare or Medicaid. Most vision insurance providers also offer policies that you can purchase individually.



Vision insurance is often a value-added benefit linked to indemnity health insurance, health maintenance organizations (HMOs), and preferred provider organizations (PPOs) contracted with managed vision care networks to provide eye care services.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Vision Insurance  

There are benefits and limitations to vision insurance, and whether you should get it or not may depend on how badly you need it. If you have a history of eye-related medical needs, it may be worth the extra money to purchase vision insurance. If you only go to the eye doctor once a year for routine check-ups, it might not be necessary for you to buy an expensive eye care insurance plan.



Overall, vision care insurance isn't expensive, and it may save you money over time, especially if you have recurring eye care troubles or regularly purchase corrective lenses. If you end up needing eye surgery, it can help with the cost as well.



Cons of vision insurance are that it may not necessarily cover the type of service you need or will not allow you to travel out of its network for treatment. In addition, if there is a specific brand of lenses you like using, or specialized lenses or frames, it may offer a limited line of brands.





Pros

These can often be easily added onto insurance plans.
You can also buy a plan individually.
Premiums are not expensive.
The plans offset the cost of corrective lenses.



Cons

You may not be able to use out-of-network services.
If you don't need regular eye care, it may not be worth the money.
Some vision care insurance limits what you can purchase in terms of eye wear.







Is Vision Insurance Separate From Health Insurance?
Vision insurance is usually sold as an add-on to health insurance from your employer or you can purchase it separately.




What Insurance Does Walmart Vision Center Take?
Walmart's vision center takes its own Walmart Vision Plan and it is an out-of-network provider for many vision plans, including Cole Managed Vision, EyeMed, and Davis Vision, In order to find out if Walmart Vision Center takes your insurance, you must visit its website because it varies by state and location.




Who Takes Davis Vision Insurance?
Davis Vision insurance offers a wide range of both in-network and out-of-network providers including Walmart, Visionworks. Costco, For Eyes, and Sam's Club.




Who Takes VSP Vision Insurance?
The VSP website claims to have thousands of in-network optometrists and ophthalmologists located all over the United States, including vision care centers in Costco stores.




What Vision Insurance Does Costco Take?
Costco's website states it "now accepts most vision insurance plans" for its vision care services.


   The Bottom Line  

Vision care insurance may be helpful to cover routine eye care such as exams, fittings and help pay for corrective lenses. Some plans offer more benefits than others, but if you don't have a reason to see an eye doctor more than a regular check-up, it might not be worth buying a plan, even if it is affordable.
What Is Visual Basic for Applications (VBA)?  

Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) is part of Microsoft Corporation's (NASDAQ: MSFT) legacy software Visual Basic. VBA is used to write programs for the Windows operating system and runs as an internal programming language in Microsoft Office (MS Office, Office) applications such as Access, Excel, PowerPoint, Publisher, Word, and Visio. VBA allows users to customize beyond what is normally available with MS Office host applications.





Key Takeaways

Visual Basic for Applications is a computer programming language developed and owned by Microsoft.With VBA you can create macros to automate repetitive word- and data-processing functions, and generate custom forms, graphs, and reports.VBA functions within MS Office applications; it is not a stand-alone product.VBA is accessed in Excel by hitting Alt + F11 while having an Excel workbook present.VBA leverages objects, variables, properties, projects, logical operators, and modules to make statements recognizable by debugging processes.


   Understanding VBA  

VBA is an event-driven tool, which means that you can use it to tell the computer to initiate an action or string of actions. To do this, you build custom macros—short for macroinstructions—by typing commands into an editing module.



A macro is essentially a sequence of characters whose input results in another sequence of characters (its output) that accomplishes specific computing tasks. You do not need to purchase the VBA software because VBA is the version of Visual Basic that ships with Microsoft Office.



VBA is not a stand-alone program. Instead, it allows users to manipulate graphical user interface (GUI) features such as toolbars and menus, dialogue boxes, and forms. You may use VBA to create user-defined functions (UDFs), access Windows application programming interfaces (APIs), and automate specific computer processes and calculations.






Microsoft hosts various learning opportunities for entry-level developers to gain modest experience working with VBA.


   VBA in Excel  

All Office suite programs share common programming languages, and each have the capability of integrating VBA code to enhance the program. Due to the repetitive nature of spreadsheets, data analytics, and organizing data, VBA has been a natural fit with Excel more so than other Office suite programs.



The root of the relationship between VBA and Excel is often tied to the use of macros. To run a macro in Excel, you use VBA, though you can use VBA for non-macro activities as well.


  How to Access VBA in Excel  

To access VBA in Excel, simply press Alt + F11. Your existing Excel workbook will remain running, but a new window will appear for Microsoft Visual Basic for Applications. The top left of the VBA window will show the current projects; in the example below, the InvestopediaProject file is ready to receive VBA code.















VBA, Project Window.



In the bottom left, the window displays the properties of the selected project. As different projects or workbooks are selected, different properties are listed. These properties are listed alphabetically by default, though they can be sorted by category.















VBA Example, Properties.



By double-clicking on a project on the top left, a new window appears. There is no information in this area, though there are two dropdowns that say "(General)" and "(Declarations). This is the coding window for VBA code to be directly entered into.















VBA Example, Code.



An example of VBA code has been entered below.















VBA Example, Code with Coding.



Last, there are many important buttons and tools residing on the toolbar. The items below highlighted in yellow are the run, break, and reset toggles for the VBA code. The run button executes the code, the break button pauses the activity of the code, and the reset stops the execution of the code and brings the process back to the starting position of the code.















VBA Example, Toolbar.


   What Can You Do With VBA  

At its core, finance is about manipulating huge amounts of data; hence, VBA is endemic to the financial services sector. If you work in finance, VBA is likely running within applications that you use each day, whether you're aware of it or not. Some jobs in the sector require prior knowledge of VBA, and some do not. With VBA, you can:



Write macros. Macros allow financial professionals—whether accountants, commercial bankers, investment bankers, research analysts, salesmen, traders, portfolio managers, clerks, or administrators—to analyze and adjust huge amounts of data quickly.
Update data. You can use VBA in Excel to create and maintain complex trading, pricing, and risk-management models, forecast sales and earnings, and to generate financial ratios.
Perform scenario-analysis. With Visual Basic for Applications, you can create various portfolio-management and investment scenarios. This includes filtering through different situations that may impact outcomes differently.
Organize information. You also may use VBA to produce lists of customers’ names or any other content; create invoices, forms, and charts; analyze scientific data, and manage data display for budgets and forecasting.
Be unconventional. VBA can be used to copy and paste values, adjust cell styles for an entire workbook, and strike accelerator keys. You can perform very normal tasks but perform them in an easier, automated manner.
Prompt action. VBA can be used to interact with users. For example, you may need a user's input for their first and last name to put on a form. VBA can be used to prompt a user in a way that makes this input unavoidably mandatory. 






There are many forums online that provide VBA code, allowing you to simply copy and paste the code for your personal use. Be cautious when using someone else's code, especially if you are unfamiliar with the source, individual, or logic of the code.


   Important VBA Terms  
  Module  

A module is where Excel stores the VBA code. Information regarding the modules within a spreadsheet can be found in the Project Explorer, one of the sections of the Visual Basic Editor. All modules may be saved within a modules folder, and modules are sometimes referred to as standard modules.


  Objects  

In VBA, most code is used to manipulate objects. Objects are items such as workbooks, worksheets, cells, cell ranges, or cell fonts. When coding in VBA, objects are often selected or referred to as part of the code. For example, VBA code may use the "ActiveCell" language to manipulate the object currently selected in the spreadsheet. In addition, you may create a process that executes when a bar chart is edited.


  Procedures  

The procedure is the part of a computer program that performs a specific task. It's the block of code that starts with a declaration and finishes with an end declaration. There are two types of procedures in VBA: sub procedures form an action in Excel and begin with the text "Sub", and function procedures that carry out calculations and return a value.


  Statement  

A statement is an instruction that can be broken into two different types. First, a declaration statement is used to state something such as defining a constant or variable value. Second, executable statements designate code that specify that a certain action is


  Variables  

Variables are storage locations for defined items. They're used to hold specific values that may change as VBA scripts are performed. For example, the variable "FirstName" may not contain any value. However, after the user inputs their name, the variable may be assigned the FirstName variable and may be given the value "John". Similar to how variable costs may change over time, variables in coding may be different in different situations.


  Logical Operators  

Logical operators are the functions that allow for greater analytical and processing capabilities. They are bits of code that allow a computer to understand and compare items. For instance, VBA can analyze whether the user above's name is "Mary". Using the logical operators 'if, then', 'true', and 'false', the program can analyze the input and perform a logical evaluation.






Visual Basic for Applications is the only version of VB 6 that is still sold and supported by Microsoft, and only as an internal component of Office programs. 


   VBA Users  
  Basic Users  

Within MS Office applications, Visual Basic for Applications allows users to perform myriad functions that go beyond simple word processing and spreadsheet operations. For the most basic user, VBA helps to make frequent everyday tasks less repetitive via macros.



Macros can automate just about any task—like generating customized charts and reports, and performing word- and data-processing functions. For example, you can write a macro that, with a single click, will make Excel create an entire balance sheet from a series of accounting entries in a spreadsheet.


  Advanced Users  

Programmers, however, use macros in more complex ways—like replicating large pieces of code, merging existing program functions, and designing specific languages. Advanced VBA code can convert a single row vector into a matrix, populate a range, or manipulate the characteristics of a sheet.


  Companies and Organizations  

VBA can also work in external—that is, non-Microsoft—settings by using a technology called COM interface, which allows commands to interact across computer boundaries. Many firms have implemented VBA within their own applications, both proprietary and commercial, including AutoCAD, ArcGIS, CATIA, Corel, raw, and SolidWorks.



Any firm may use VBA to customize Excel for a unique purpose, such as discerning how long it would take to earn $1 million in an investment portfolio based on a specific interest rate and other factors, like the number of years until retirement.




What Is VBA Used for?
VBA is used to further expand what some programs are able to accomplish. VBA is often used to create macros, automate processes, generate custom forms, or perform repetitive tasks that may need minimal human intervention.




Is VBA the Same As Excel?
VBA is a computer language that is used within Excel. While Excel is a broader software used for many different types of analytical functions, VBA enhances its capabilities.




Is VBA Easy to Learn?
Compared to other complex languages, VBA is relatively easier to learn. It is considered a beginner-friendly language, and VBA-coders often do not need to have prior experience as a coder to learn the language. In addition, the VBA community has many resources available for individuals new to programming.




Is VBA Still In Demand?
Yes, VBA is still useful and used by individuals interacting with Microsoft products. However, newer languages such as Python, C#, or R can be used to code in place of VBA. In addition, new tools such as Power Query may be able to perform tasks that could previously only be performed when using VBA.


   The Bottom Line  

First introduced in 1993, VBA has been used for decades to automate processes, generate macros, or help individuals by performing repetitive tasks. Though other, more powerful computer languages may have greater capabilities, VBA is still useful today and holds the advantage of being an easier, more basic language to learn.

What Is the CBOE Volatility Index (VIX)?  

The CBOE Volatility Index (VIX) is a real-time index that represents the market’s expectations for the relative strength of near-term price changes of the S&P 500 Index (SPX). Because it is derived from the prices of SPX index options with near-term expiration dates, it generates a 30-day forward projection of volatility. Volatility, or how fast prices change, is often seen as a way to gauge market sentiment, and in particular the degree of fear among market participants.



The index is more commonly known by its ticker symbol and is often referred to simply as “the VIX.” It was created by the CBOE Options Exchange and is maintained by CBOE Global Markets. It is an important index in the world of trading and investment because it provides a quantifiable measure of market risk and investors’ sentiments.





Key Takeaways

The CBOE Volatility Index, or VIX, is a real-time market index representing the market’s expectations for volatility over the coming 30 days.Investors use the VIX to measure the level of risk, fear, or stress in the market when making investment decisions.Traders can also trade the VIX using a variety of options and exchange-traded products, or they can use VIX values to price derivatives.The VIX generally rises when stocks fall, and declines when stocks rise.


   How Does the CBOE Volatility Index (VIX) Work?  

The VIX attempts to measure the magnitude of price movements of the S&P 500 (i.e., its volatility). The more dramatic the price swings are in the index, the higher the level of volatility, and vice versa. In addition to being an index to measure volatility, traders can also trade VIX futures, options, and ETFs to hedge or speculate on volatility changes in the index.



In general, volatility can be measured using two different methods. The first method is based on historical volatility, using statistical calculations on previous prices over a specific time period. This process involves computing various statistical numbers, like mean (average), variance, and finally, the standard deviation on the historical price data sets.



The second method, which the VIX uses, involves inferring its value as implied by options prices. Options are derivative instruments whose price depends upon the probability of a particular stock’s current price moving enough to reach a particular level (called the strike price or exercise price).



Since the possibility of such price moves happening within the given time frame is represented by the volatility factor, various option pricing methods (like the Black-Scholes model) include volatility as an integral input parameter. Since option prices are available in the open market, they can be used to derive the volatility of the underlying security. Such volatility, as implied by or inferred from market prices, is called forward-looking implied volatility (IV).


   Extending Volatility to Market Level  

The VIX was the first benchmark index introduced by CCOE to measure the market’s expectation of future volatility. Being a forward-looking index, it is constructed using the implied volatilities on S&P 500 index options and represents the market’s expectation of 30-day future volatility of the S&P 500 Index, which is considered the leading indicator of the broad U.S. stock market.



Introduced in 1993, the VIX is now an established and globally recognized gauge of U.S. equity market volatility. It is calculated in real-time based on the live prices of the S&P 500 Index. Calculations are performed and values are relayed from 3 a.m. to 9:15 a.m., and from 9:30 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. EST. CBOE began the dissemination of the VIX outside of U.S. trading hours in April 2016.


   Calculation of VIX Values  

VIX values are calculated using the CBOE-traded standard SPX options, which expire on the third Friday of each month, and the weekly SPX options, which expire on all other Fridays. Only SPX options are considered whose expiry period lies within more than 23 days and less than 37 days.



While the formula is mathematically complex, it theoretically works as follows: It estimates the expected volatility of the S&P 500 Index by aggregating the weighted prices of multiple SPX puts and calls over a wide range of strike prices. All such qualifying options should have valid nonzero bid and ask prices that represent the market perception of which options’ strike prices will be hit by the underlying stocks during the remaining time to expiry.



For detailed calculations with an example, one can refer to the section “The VIX Index Calculation: Step-by-Step” of the VIX white paper.


  Evolution of the VIX  

During its origin in 1993, VIX was calculated as a weighted measure of the implied volatility of eight S&P 100 at-the-money put and call options, when the derivatives market had limited activity and was in its growing stages.



As the derivatives markets matured, 10 years later, in 2003, the CBOE teamed up with Goldman Sachs and updated the methodology to calculate VIX differently. It then started using a wider set of options based on the broader S&P 500 Index, an expansion that allows for a more accurate view of investors’ expectations of future market volatility. A methodology was adopted that remains in effect and is also used for calculating various other variants of the volatility index.


  VIX vs. S&P 500 Price  

Volatility value, investors’ fear, and VIX values all move up when the market is falling. The reverse is true when the market advances—the index values, fear, and volatility decline.



The price action of the S&P 500 and the VIX often shows inverse price action: when the S&P falls sharply, the VIX rises—and vice versa.






As a rule of thumb, VIX values greater than 30 are generally linked to large volatility resulting from increased uncertainty, risk, and investors’ fear. VIX values below 20 generally correspond to stable, stress-free periods in the markets.


   How to Trade the VIX  

The VIX has paved the way for using volatility as a tradable asset, albeit through derivative products. CBOE launched the first VIX-based exchange-traded futures contract in March 2004, followed by the launch of VIX options in February 2006.



Such VIX-linked instruments allow pure volatility exposure and have created a new asset class. Active traders, large institutional investors, and hedge fund managers use the VIX-linked securities for portfolio diversification, as historical data demonstrate a strong negative correlation of volatility to the stock market returns—that is, when stock returns go down, volatility rises, and vice versa.



Like all indexes, one cannot buy the VIX directly. Instead, investors can take a position in VIX through futures or options contracts, or through VIX-based exchange traded products (ETPs). For example, the ProShares VIX Short-Term Futures ETF (VIXY) and the iPath Series B S&P 500 VIX Short-Term Futures ETN (VXXB) are two such offerings that track a certain VIX-variant index and take positions in linked futures contracts.



Active traders who employ their own trading strategies and advanced algorithms use VIX values to price the derivatives, which are based on high beta stocks. Beta represents how much a particular stock price can move with respect to the move in a broader market index. For instance, a stock having a beta of +1.5 indicates that it is theoretically 50% more volatile than the market. Traders making bets through options of such high beta stocks utilize the VIX volatility values in appropriate proportion to correctly price their options trades.



Following the popularity of the VIX, the CBOE now offers several other variants for measuring broad market volatility. Examples include the CBOE Short-Term Volatility Index (VIX9D), which reflects the nine-day expected volatility of the S&P 500 Index; the CBOE S&P 500 3-Month Volatility Index (VIX3M); and the CBOE S&P 500 6-Month Volatility Index (VIX6M). Products based on other market indexes include the Nasdaq-100 Volatility Index (VXN); the CBOE DJIA Volatility Index (VXD); and the CBOE Russell 2000 Volatility Index (RVX).






Options and futures based on VIX products are available for trading on CBOE and CFE platforms, respectively.




What Does the VIX Tell Us?
The CBOE Volatility Index (VIX) signals the level of fear or stress in the stock market—using the S&P 500 index as a proxy for the broad market—and hence is widely known as the “Fear Index.” The higher the VIX, the greater the level of fear and uncertainty in the market, with levels above 30 indicating tremendous uncertainty.




How Can an Investor Trade the VIX?
Like all indices, the VIX cannot be bought directly. However, the VIX can be traded through futures contracts and exchange traded funds (ETFs) and exchange traded notes (ETNs) that own these futures contracts.




Does the Level of the VIX Affect Option Premiums and Prices?
Yes, it does. Volatility is one of the primary factors that affect stock and index options’ prices and premiums. As the VIX is the most widely watched measure of broad market volatility, it has a substantial impact on option prices or premiums. A higher VIX means higher prices for options (i.e., more expensive option premiums) while a lower VIX means lower option prices or cheaper premiums.




How Can I Use the VIX Level to Hedge Downside Risk?
Downside risk can be adequately hedged by buying put options, the price of which depend on market volatility. Astute investors tend to buy options when the VIX is relatively low and put premiums are cheap. Such protective puts will generally get expensive when the market is sliding; therefore, like insurance, it’s best to buy them when the need for such protection is not obvious (i.e., when investors perceive the risk of market downside to be low).




What Is a Normal Value for the VIX?
The long-run average of the VIX has been around 21. High levels of the VIX (normally when it is above 30) can point to increased volatility and fear in the market, often associated with a bear market.
What Is VIX Option?  

A VIX option is a non-equity index option that uses the Cboe Volatility Index as its underlying asset.





Key Takeaways

VIX Options trade with the S&P 500 Volatility Index as their underlying.VIX call options make a natural hedge against downward price shocks.VIX put options can be problematic because the S&P 500 index does not often rise rapidly.VIX options trade as European-style options.


   Understanding VIX Options  

Call and put VIX options are both available. The call options hedge portfolios against a sudden market decline, and put options hedge against a rapid reversal of short positions on the S&P 500 index. These options thus allow traders and investors to speculate on future moves in volatility.



The VIX option, which originated in 2006, was the first exchange-traded option that gave individual investors the ability to trade on market volatility. The trading of VIX options can be a useful tool for investors. By purchasing a VIX call option a trader can profit from a rapid increase in volatility.



Sharp increases in volatility coincide with a short-term price shock in stocks. A volatility increase often, but not always, coincides with a downward trending market. As such, this kind of call option is a natural hedge and can be used very strategically over longer periods, and tactically in the short term. In many cases, it can be a more efficient hedge than equity index options.



The VIX is susceptible to a pattern of slow decline and rapid increase. As such VIX call options, when well-timed can be a very effective hedge; however, VIX put options are more difficult to use effectively. The put options can be profitable for traders who correctly anticipate that a market is about to turn around from a downward trend to an upward trend.



VIX options settle in cash and trade in the European style. European style limits the exercise of the option until its expiration. The trader may always sell an existing long position or purchase an equivalent option to close a short position before expiration. 



For advanced options traders, it is possible to incorporate many different advanced strategies, such as bull call spreads, butterfly spreads, and many more, by using VIX options. However, calendar spreads can be problematic since different expiration series do not track each other as closely as their equity options counterparts.


   VIX Explained  

The Volatility Index of the Cboe Global Markets (Cboe) trades with the symbol VIX. However, the VIX is not like other traded instruments. Rather than representing the price of a commodity, interest rate, or exchange rate, the VIX shows the market's expectation of 30-day volatility in the stock market.



It is a calculated index based on the price of options on the S&P 500. The estimation of volatility for these S&P options, between the current date and the option's expiration date, forms the VIX. The Cboe combines the price of multiple options and derives an aggregate value of volatility, which the index tracks.



Introduced in 1993, the Volatility Index (VIX) was initially a weighted measure of the implied volatility (IV) of eight S&P 100 at-the-money put and call options. Ten years later, in 2004, it expanded to use options based on a broader index, the S&P 500. This expansion allows for a more accurate view of investors' expectations on future market volatility. VIX values higher than 30 are usually associated with a significant amount of volatility as a result of investor fear or uncertainty. Values below 15 ordinarily correspond to less stressful, or even complacent, times in the markets.



Because of its tendency to move significantly higher during periods of market fear and uncertainty, another name for the VIX is the "fear index."
Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov "Lenin" was the architect of Russia’s 1917 Bolshevik revolution and the first leader of what became the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR).



Through violent means, he established a system of Marxist socialism called communism in the former Russian Empire, which attempted to impose collective control over the means of production, redistribute wealth, abolish the aristocracy, and create a more equitable society for the masses.





Key Takeaways

Vladimir Ilyich "Lenin" Ulyanov was a principal ringleader of Russia's communist revolution, which led to the founding of the USSR.Lenin was the son of a well-off, upper middle-class family who rose to power by exploiting the dissatisfaction of the urban working poor and rural peasants.Lenin's revolution, the resulting civil war and famines, and the brutal domestic repression that he led against dissidents and scapegoats directly led to the deaths of over 8 million citizens of the Russian Empire, many by starvation, torture, or summary execution.












Investopedia / Bailey Mariner



Lenin spent his adult life agitating for and leading revolutionary communist activities in Russia. This culminated in the 1917 October Revolution, which brought Lenin's Bolshevik faction to power. In the wake of the Revolution, the reign of the Bolshevik regime under Lenin was marked by economic chaos and deprivation; bloody civil war; massive (sometimes deliberate) famines among the rural working class; and brutal repression, torture, and murder of those suspected or accused of dissent, insufficient loyalty to the Revolution, or of holding out food or other goods.



Despite these crimes, Lenin is still revered among some communists, communist sympathizers, and citizens of former USSR republics. A 2017 Russian poll done by the Levada Center found that Lenin’s reputation as the father of his country is diminished but by no means undone. Fifty-six percent of Russians believe that he played an entirely or mostly positive role in Russian history, up from 40% in 2006; however, many of those polled couldn’t be specific about what he had done.


   Early Life and Education  

Lenin was born in 1870 in what was then Simbirsk, about 450 miles east of Moscow. His family, with the last name Ulyanov, was middle class and prosperous. Two 1887 events shaped his revolutionary beliefs: the execution of his older brother, Alexandr for an attempt to murder the Russian Tsar; and his expulsion from Kazan University for being the ringleader of a student uprising.



While becoming a Marxist in 1889, he later was allowed to sit for his law examinations and earned a law degree from St. Petersburg University. He became a public defender and part of a group of revolutionary Marxists.



Eventually, his activities got him exiled to Siberia for three years, from 1897 to 1900. After that he adopted the pseudonym, "Lenin", and moved to Europe, to continue his revolutionary activities. He returned to Russia to agitate for the, ultimately failed, Revolution of 1905, then returned abroad to Europe in 1907.


   Deeds  
  The Russian Revolution  

Lenin returned to Russia in April 1917 after the czar had abdicated and the Soviet Revolution was underway. The country was being run by a provisional government, which Lenin termed “a dictatorship of the bourgeoisie.” He envisioned a “dictatorship of the proletariat,” in which workers and peasants ruled.



Russians were in despair over the toll that World War I was taking on the country and wanted change, and that war-weariness allowed Lenin and his Red Guards, a secretly organized army of peasants, workers, and disaffected Russian military men, to seize control of the government in a nearly bloodless coup d'état in November 1917.


  The Russian Civil War  

Once in power, Lenin withdrew Russia from WWI, but his Red Army ended up fighting a three-year civil war with the White Army, a coalition of monarchists, capitalists, and democratic socialists. To fund the war, Lenin instituted something called “War Communism,” which nationalized all manufacturing and industry and requisitioned grain from farmers to feed the troops and sell abroad to raise cash for the government.






Socialism is considered to be the stepping stone from capitalism to communism. Communism involves complete control of economic resources by the state, while under socialism, citizens equally share economic resources that are distributed by a democratically elected government.



After an attempted assassination in 1918 in which he was seriously wounded, Lenin waged the Red Terror through the Bolshevik secret police, known as the Cheka. By some estimates, more than 100,000 people thought to be against the aims of the revolution, (known as “counterrevolutionaries”) or simply related to those who were in opposition, were murdered.



The Red Army vanquished the final remnants of the White Army in Crimea in November 1920. Between the Red Terror, the Russian Civil War, and the resulting famines due to War Communism, an estimated 1.5 million combatants and 8 million civilians were killed by Lenin's revolutionary efforts during this period.


  Forming the USSR  

Lenin’s War Communism eventually ruined the economy. After the Russian famine of 1921, which killed at least five million people, he introduced his New Economic Policy in an attempt to prevent a second revolution. It permitted some private enterprise, introduced a wage system, and let peasants sell produce and other goods on the open market while having to pay tax on any earnings, either in money or raw goods. State-owned enterprises such as steel operated on a for-profit basis.



Lenin suffered a series of strokes between 1922 and 1924 that made speaking and governing difficult. He died on Jan. 21, 1924, barely a year after the Bolsheviks finally established the USSR, on Dec. 30, 1922, through a treaty among Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, and the Transcaucasian Federation (later Georgia, Armenia, and Azerbaijan). His body was embalmed and put on display in a mausoleum in Moscow’s Red Square, where it still is today.


   Legacy  

The legacy of Lenin is a complicated one. He sought to improve the lives of the peasants, the working class, and the poor of Russia, who were suffering under the aristocratic ways of the Russian Empire. Though he ushered in a revolution and a new form of government, his tactics were brutal, resulting in the deaths of millions.



In addition, he created the USSR, which under Stalin became an even more brutal regime, resulting in the deaths of millions more, and complicating geopolitical affairs throughout the 20th century and even the 21st century after its collapse.



The initial goal of Lenin's revolution was never quite achieved. Though the Russian aristocracy was destroyed, the lives of many did not improve.



Lenin published many writings on his thoughts about Marxism, capitalism, the Russian empire, and revolution. Some of his most important works covering these topics include the April Theses, The Development of Capitalism in Russia, Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism, What Is to Be Done? Burning Questions of Our Movement, and The Three Sources and Three Component Parts of Marxism."




What Happened to Vladimir Lenin?
Vladimir Lenin died in 1924 at the age of 54 due to a brain hemorrhage. He had suffered strokes before this. Upon his death, Stalin became the leader of the Soviet Union.




What Did Vladimir Lenin Accomplish?
Lenin led the revolutionary uprising that brought the Bolshevik faction of communism to power in Russia and across the territories of the old Russian Empire. This was one of the major events of world history in the 20th century, which would influence the course of economic, political, and strategic trends all over the world. Lenin's revolution and establishment of the Soviet Union resulted in the deaths of many millions of Russians and others, and it drove the world into a century of episodic wars and diplomatic conflicts known as the Cold War.




What Did Vladimir Lenin Want in World War I?
At the time of World War I, Russia was still an empire ruled by a monarch; Czar Nicholas II. Lenin wanted Russia to lose in World War I as he believed it would bring about the political revolution he had been hoping for. He wrote and published various works during this time. Lenin was not in Russia during the war but did return to further flame the revolution that had already started.


   The Bottom Line  

Vladimir Lenin was one of the most influential people in history who brought about significant change in his country that reverberated around the world and impacted the lives of millions. Though his thoughts on Marxism and capitalism are read to this day and influence many individuals and nations, his legacy will also be remembered for his brutal regime and the deaths of millions.
What Is a Vocational Degree?  

A vocational degree is an academic certificate awarded to students who have completed the degree requirements for a specific trade or career. Vocational degrees are popular because they typically require less time to complete than a traditional degree program (e.g., associate or bachelor's degree), and upon completion, the student is often ready to begin working the trade. A college undergraduate degree focuses on developing an individual's all-around intelligence and critical-thinking skills, but may not prepare an individual for a specific job. However, vocational degrees offer training for careers, such as medical coding and billing, auto mechanics, cosmetology, electrical work, and legal secretary work.





Key Takeaways

Vocational degrees are academic certificates awarded to students who have completed degree requirements for a specific trade or career.Completing a vocational degree program typically takes less time than a traditional undergraduate program, though this time varies by state.Because careers and business needs evolve, some workers seek to complete a vocational degree to remain marketable.


   Understanding Vocational Degrees  

Sometimes it is possible to get a bachelor's degree in a program that is also offered as a vocational degree, but not all vocational degrees can be obtained through a traditional four-year college. For example, it is possible to become a paralegal after obtaining a law degree at a university or after completing a paralegal vocational degree; however, few, if any, colleges offer bachelor's degrees in cosmetology.


   Requirements for a Vocational Degree  

The parameters for what qualifies as a vocational degree may vary by state. Two years of nursing education in California, for instance, is quantified as a vocational or technical degree, but in other states, that same curriculum might be recorded as non-vocational. The length of the curriculum for vocational degrees can vary drastically from a couple of months to two years.



The value of vocational degrees can also vary, with some estimates showing that shorter-term programs can offer higher career returns on the investment. The range of salaries for jobs open to those with vocational degrees can vary widely.


   Special Considerations  

Vocational degrees are sometimes sought by individuals who have already established a career in one field but are looking to be trained in supplemental areas. This sort of activity may be common in industries that have undergone evolutionary periods when new required skill sets are needed to remain employed in a particular role. For instance, many careers now require an understanding and use of information technology and computer programming skills as a part of daily work. 



Vocational degrees may also be used for job-changers who seek a fresh, more competitive position in the job market on an entirely different career path. They might even have college degrees in specialized fields. A vocational degree is an opportunity to pursue work that might not otherwise be available to them. This can be especially true if certain industry positions see a sudden rise in immediate demand with few professionals available to fill the roles. Pursuing a vocational degree that offers such skills may be an opportunity to achieve a higher salary in a short amount of time.
What Is Voice-Over-Internet Protocol (VoIP)?  

Voice-over-Internet protocol (VoIP) is communications technology that allows users to interact by audio through an Internet connection, rather than through an analog connection. Voice-over-Internet Protocol converts the voice signal used in traditional phone technology into a digital signal that travels through the Internet instead of through analog telephone lines.





Key Takeaways

Voice-over-Internet protocol (VoIP) is a technology that lets users make calls using a broadband Internet connection instead of a standard phone line.VoIP technology converts the voice signal used in traditional phone calls into a digital signal that travels via the Internet rather than analog phone lines.Because calls are being made over the Internet, they are essentially free when made wherever the Internet is available.The traditional telephone industry was hit hard by the VoIP boom, with many users abandoning it as some of its services have become nearly obsolete.During the COVID-19 pandemic, VoIP became essential to modern workplaces as telecommuting replaced the office.


   Understanding Voice-Over-Internet Protocol (VoIP)  

Voice-over-Internet-Protocol (VoIP) technology allows users to make "telephone calls" through Internet connections instead of through analog telephone lines, which renders these calls effectively free wherever the Internet is available. VoIP changed the telecommunications industry by making traditional phone lines and services nearly obsolete and reducing demand for them significantly.



As access to the Internet has become more widely available, VoIP has become ubiquitous both for personal use and for business use. 






Intermedia, RingCentral, 8x8, Intermedia, Vonage, Dialpad, Microsoft Skype, Ooma, Mitel, Freshdesk Contact Center, and Line 2 led the list of PCMag's best Business VoIP providers for 2022.


   How Voice-Over-Internet Protocol (VoIP) Works  

VoIP works by converting voice audio into packets of data that then travel through the Internet like any other type of data such as text or pictures. These packets of sound data travel almost instantly through public and private Internet networks to route from the origination to the destination. Any landline or mobile phone that is connected to the Internet can place and receive VoIP calls. VoIP calls can also be conducted on computers through the computer microphone and speakers or headsets.



Because VoIP calls travel through the Internet instead of through analog telephone lines, they are subject to the same lags and delays as other data traveling the Internet when bandwidth is compromised or overwhelmed.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Voice-Over-Internet Protocol (VoIP)  

VoIP technology reduces the cost of voice communication to almost nothing for personal and commercial use. Many Internet providers throw in VoIP telephone service for free as an incentive to buy broadband or higher-speed Internet connection and Internet cable television channels. Since it costs the Internet provider a little extra to provide this service and it costs the customer nothing extra for this service, it is a win-win for everyone involved in the transaction.



VoIP service has also enabled video calls, conference calls, and webinars for commercial and personal use at prices that are affordable or free. Previously, video conferencing and web conferencing were expensive and only available to companies large enough to justify the expense, but VoIP allows companies of all sizes, including solo practitioners and freelancers, to afford it.



The main con of VoIP services is that they can lag or clump. Because the sound goes in packets, it is slightly delayed. Under normal circumstances, untrained listeners won't be able to tell the difference between VoIP and analog calls. But when there is high bandwidth usage on the Internet, the packets may cluster or be delayed, which can cause a jerky, clumped sound on VoIP calls.



Some VoIP services can't work during power outages if the user or provider does not have backup power. Some 9-1-1 services do not have the ability to recognize locations of VoIP calls.


   VoIP Services  

The first VoIP service was launched in 1995 by a company called VocalTech. The company launched the first Internet-based phone, with the appropriate name InternetPhone. This did not come with any video capabilites, and required both users to be logged on to the same software in order to talk.



Early VoIP services suffered from a poor user experience, with frequent distortions and dropped calls. However, the service steadily improved, until the launch of Skype in 2003 made VoIP attractive and practical for average users. This allowed phone calls that were completely free of charge, in addition to video calls and calls to landlines, with much-improved sound quality.



The COVID-19 pandemic proved another boon for the VoIP industry, as millions of office workers and administrators now began working remotely. VoIP and related services such as Zoom became even more critical for office administration, as teleconferencing became the new norm for the average workplace.




What Is a Simple Definition of VoIP?
Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) is a technology that allows people to speak over an Internet connection, similar to an ordinary telephone call. VoIP allows audio conversations for a much lower cost than traditional telephone networks, especially over a long distance. However, VoIP calls may also be subject to bandwidth limitations.




What Is Mobile VoIP?
Mobile VoIP, or mVoIP, is a set of communications protocols that can extend VoIP communications to handheld devices. This is frequently used to facilitate audio conversations over WiFi or LTE networks at a lower cost than traditional telephones and without a wired connection.




What Does SIP Means on VoIP Phones?
SIP, or session initiation protocol, is closely related to VoIP and is used to manage multimedia communications channels such as phone calls and videoconferencing. SIP is often used interchangeably with VoIP, but they are not the same thing.




What Does Non-Fixed VoIP Mean?
Non-fixed VoIP refers to a Voice-over-Internet protocol (VoIP) phone number that is not attached to a physical address. While VoIP phone numbers can sometimes be fixed to a residence or company office, non-fixed VoIP numbers are not associated with any geographical location. This is convenient for call centers and remote workers, but can also be used by scammers pretending to be their victims' neighbors.
What Is a Void Contract?  

A void contract is a formal agreement that is effectively illegitimate and unenforceable from the moment it is created. A void contract differs from a voidable contract because, while a void contract is one that was never legally valid to begin with (and will never be enforceable at any future point in time), voidable contracts may be legally enforceable once underlying contractual defects are corrected. At the same time, void contracts and voidable contracts can be nullified for similar reasons.


   Understanding Void Contracts  

A contract may be deemed void if the agreement is not enforceable as it was originally written. In such instances, void contracts (also referred to as "void agreements"), involve agreements that are either illegal in nature or in violation of fairness or public policy.





Key Takeaways

A void contract is a formal agreement that is effectively illegitimate and unenforceable from the moment it is created.A void contract differs from a voidable contract, although both may indeed be nullified for similar reasons.A contract may be deemed void if it is not enforceable as it was originally written.Void contracts can occur when one of the involved parties is incapable of fully comprehending the implications of the agreement, like when a mentally impaired individual or an inebriated person may not be coherent enough to adequately grasp the parameters of the agreement, rendering it void.Agreements entered into by minors or for illegal activities may also be rendered void.







Void contracts can occur when one of the involved parties is incapable of fully comprehending the implications of the agreement. For example, a mentally impaired individual or an inebriated person may not be coherent enough to adequately grasp the parameters of the agreement, rendering it void. Furthermore, agreements entered into by minors may be considered void; however, some contracts involving minors that have acquired the consent of a parent or guardian may be enforceable.



Any contract agreement created between two parties for illegal actions is also considered a void contract. For example, a contract between an illegal drug supplier and a drug dealer is unenforceable from the onset due to the illegal nature of the agreed-upon activity.



A contract may also become void if a change in laws or regulations occurs after an agreement was reached but before the contract was fulfilled if the formerly legal activities described within the document are now deemed illegal.


   Voidable Contract vs. Void Contract  

While a void contract is often considered not executable by design, a contract may be deemed voidable if the agreement is actionable, but the circumstances surrounding the agreement are questionable in nature. This includes agreements made where one party withheld information or intentionally provided inaccurate information. Failure to disclose items as required by law, or misrepresenting information, may render the contract voidable but doesn't automatically make it void. In instances when one party is allowed to cancel the contract because of the illegal or unfair (voidable) actions by the other party, the contract or agreement then becomes void.
What Is a Void Transaction?  

A void transaction is a transaction that is canceled by a merchant or vendor before it settles through a consumer's debit or credit card account.



Although a transaction may be void, it does not appear on the customer’s account statement. It may appear as a pending transaction when the customer checks their account online.





Key Takeaways

A void transaction is a transaction that is canceled before it settles through a consumer's debit or credit card account. When a transaction is voided, it shows up as a pending transaction on the customer's account for a short period of time, while the process is being completed.Void transactions are different from refunds, which are issued after the transaction has cleared through the customer's account.Mistaken charges, incorrectly-charged merchandise, and fraudulent purchases are the most likely to be voided.


   Understanding Void Transactions  

When a transaction takes place, the merchant swipes the customer's debit or credit card. If there are enough funds in the customer's account, the terminal authorizes the transaction. But the transaction is not fully settled, as payment has to be released from the customer's account to the merchant.



If there is a problem with the transaction, it can be voided—even though it hasn't settled. Since the transaction is pending and has not cleared the customer's account, it means the sale can be prevented from going through.



In order to void the transaction, the customer must contact the merchant and request the transaction be reversed unless the merchant notices a mistake or issue and proactively voids a transaction at the point of sale. Once voided, the transaction will show up on the customer's account as a pending transaction, which disappears after a certain amount of time.



The hold can last anywhere from 24 hours to several days, causing the customer an inconvenience because they won’t be able to access the money during that time.






A void transaction generally takes place on the same day as the original transaction.


   Special Considerations  
  Voiding Purchases  

Mistakes can be easily corrected by voiding transactions if they are recognized immediately. For instance, a buyer may find they were charged incorrectly. A customer who has just paid for their items from a grocery store picks up their bags and realizes the cashier accidentally included some of the next customer’s items in their purchase. The cashier can void the transaction, re-scan the correct items, and charge the customer the correct amount.



Some merchants may allow a certain window of time to cancel a purchase. This often occurs with e-commerce merchants. A buyer often may have the option to cancel a purchase made online within 24 hours. If the purchase is canceled, the seller then voids the transaction, and the buyer is not charged for the purchase.


  Voiding Fraudulent Transactions  

Fraudulent charges can also be voided. Card issuing companies have fraud detection services to flag fraudulent transactions.



Most companies place these transactions on hold. The customer can verify whether a transaction is fraudulent with the company, which will immediately void the transaction. If a customer cannot be reached for verification, many card companies will automatically void a suspicious transaction before it is settled to ensure the safety and security of the customer.






Because refunds are issued after the money has already passed through a customer's account to the merchant, the process can take longer than a voided transaction.


   Void Transactions Versus Refunds  

Void transactions are different from refunds. With void transactions, no money is ever actually transferred from the customer’s debit or credit card company to the merchant. But refunds are issued after a transaction has settled and the customer has paid for the good or service.



Some merchants and credit card processing systems may actually settle transactions immediately. When a transaction settles immediately, the seller must issue a refund rather than voiding the transaction.



Unlike void transactions, refunds can take a much longer pass through to a customer's account. Some refunds take as little as 48 hours to reflect on a customer's account, while others can take as long as 30 days.
What Is a Voidable Contract?  

A voidable contract is a formal agreement between two parties that may be rendered unenforceable for any number of legal reasons, which may include:



Failure by one or both parties to disclose a material fact
A mistake, misrepresentation, or fraud
Undue influence or duress
One party's legal incapacity to enter a contract (e.g., a minor)
One or more terms that are unconscionable
A breach of contract



The legal right to void such a contract is known as disaffirmance.





Key Takeaways

A voidable contract is one that can be canceled or altered for qualified legal reasons.Not all contracts are voidable; legal precedent must exist to absolve responsibility.Finding a defect in a contract is a common way to void that contract.The simplest way to void a contract is for both parties to agree that voiding is the best option.


   How Voidable Contracts Work  

A voidable contract is initially considered legal and enforceable but can be rejected by one party if the contract is discovered to have defects. If a party with the power to reject the contract chooses not to reject the contract despite the defect, the contract remains valid and enforceable.



Most often, only one of the parties is adversely affected by agreeing to a voidable contract in which that party fails to recognize the misrepresentation or fraud made by the other party.


   Voidable vs. Void Contracts  

A voidable contract occurs when one of the involved parties would not have agreed to the contract originally if they had known the true nature of all of the elements of the contract prior to original acceptance. With the presentation of new knowledge, the aforementioned party has the opportunity to reject the contract after the fact. Alternatively, a contract is voidable when one or both parties were not legally capable of entering into the agreement—for example, when one party is a minor.



In contrast, a void contract is inherently unenforceable. A contract may be deemed void should the terms require one or both parties to participate in an illegal act, or if a party becomes incapable of meeting the terms as set forth, such as in the event of one party’s death.



A contract that is deemed voidable can be corrected through the process of ratification. Contract ratification requires all involved parties to agree to new terms that effectively remove the initial point of contention that was present in the original contract.



If it was later discovered that one of the parties was not capable of entering into a legally enforceable contract when the original was approved, for example, that party can choose to ratify the contract when they are deemed legally capable.






A contract may be ruled null and void should the terms require one or both parties to participate in an illegal act, or if one party becomes incapable of meeting the contract terms.


   Examples of Potentially Voidable Contracts  

Certain smartphone apps, categorized as freemium apps, begin as free downloads but later allow for in-app purchases costing real money. Freemium apps geared toward children may result in a minor accepting the terms and conditions associated with gameplay, though these terms may allow for the later solicitation of in-app purchases. This type of activity led to a lawsuit against Apple (AAPL) in 2012, which suggested the transactions were part of a voidable contract.



In a more recent example, a 2018 New Mexico lawsuit alleged that solar power installer Vivint Solar defrauded customers by binding them to 20-year contracts that required consumers to purchase the electricity generated by solar systems placed on their homes at rates that increase by more than 72% during the 20-year period. The lawsuit sought to render all Vivint's prior contracts with homeowners as voidable if affected customers wanted to cancel them. But that was not included in a settlement agreement between the New Mexico attorney general and Vivint in May 2021.
What Is Volatility?  

Volatility is a statistical measure of the dispersion of returns for a given security or market index. In most cases, the higher the volatility, the riskier the security. Volatility is often measured from either the standard deviation or variance between returns from that same security or market index.



In the securities markets, volatility is often associated with big swings in either direction. For example, when the stock market rises and falls more than one percent over a sustained period of time, it is called a volatile market. An asset's volatility is a key factor when pricing options contracts.





Key Takeaways

Volatility represents how large an asset's prices swing around the mean price—it is a statistical measure of its dispersion of returns.There are several ways to measure volatility, including beta coefficients, option pricing models, and standard deviations of returns.Volatile assets are often considered riskier than less volatile assets because the price is expected to be less predictable.Implied volatility measures how volatile the market will be while historical volatility measures price changes over predetermined periods of timeVolatility is an important variable for calculating options prices.


   Understanding Volatility  

Volatility often refers to the amount of uncertainty or risk related to the size of changes in a security's value. A higher volatility means that a security's value can potentially be spread out over a larger range of values. This means that the price of the security can change dramatically over a short time period in either direction. A lower volatility means that a security's value does not fluctuate dramatically, and tends to be more steady.



One way to measure an asset's variation is to quantify the daily returns (percent move on a daily basis) of the asset. Historical volatility is based on historical prices and represents the degree of variability in the returns of an asset. This number is without a unit and is expressed as a percentage.



While variance captures the dispersion of returns around the mean of an asset in general, volatility is a measure of that variance bounded by a specific period of time. Thus, we can report daily volatility, weekly, monthly, or annualized volatility. It is, therefore, useful to think of volatility as the annualized standard deviation.






   How to Calculate Volatility  

Volatility is often calculated using variance and standard deviation (the standard deviation is the square root of the variance). Since volatility describes changes over a specific period of time you simply take the standard deviation and multiply that by the square root of the number of periods in question:



vol = σ√T



where:



v = volatility over some interval of timeσ =standard deviation of returnsT = number of periods in the time horizon



For simplicity, let's assume we have monthly stock closing prices of $1 through $10. For example, month one is $1, month two is $2, and so on. To calculate variance, follow the five steps below.



Find the mean of the data set. This means adding each value and then dividing it by the number of values. If we add, $1, plus $2, plus $3, all the way to up to $10, we get $55. This is divided by 10 because we have 10 numbers in our data set. This provides a mean, or average price, of $5.50.
Calculate the difference between each data value and the mean. This is often called deviation. For example, we take $10 - $5.50 = $4.50, then $9 - $5.50 = $3.50. This continues all the way down to the first data value of $1. Negative numbers are allowed. Since we need each value, these calculations are frequently done in a spreadsheet.
Square the deviations. This will eliminate negative values.
Add the squared deviations together. In our example, this equals 82.5.
Divide the sum of the squared deviations (82.5) by the number of data values.



In this case, the resulting variance is $8.25. The square root is taken to get the standard deviation. This equals $2.87. This is a measure of risk and shows how values are spread out around the average price. It gives traders an idea of how far the price may deviate from the average.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang



If prices are randomly sampled from a normal distribution, then about 68% of all data values will fall within one standard deviation. Ninety-five percent of data values will fall within two standard deviations (2 x 2.87 in our example), and 99.7% of all values will fall within three standard deviations (3 x 2.87).



In this case, the values of $1 to $10 are not randomly distributed on a bell curve; rather. they are uniformly distributed. Therefore, the expected 68%–95%º–99.7% percentages do not hold. Despite this limitation, traders frequently use standard deviation, as price returns data sets often resemble more of a normal (bell curve) distribution than in the given example.






The volatility of stock prices is thought to be mean-reverting, meaning that periods of high volatility often moderate and periods of low volatility pick up, fluctuating around some long-term mean.


   Types of Volatility  
  Implied Volatility  

Implied volatility (IV), also known as projected volatility, is one of the most important metrics for options traders. As the name suggests, it allows them to make a determination of just how volatile the market will be going forward. This concept also gives traders a way to calculate probability. One important point to note is that it shouldn't be considered science, so it doesn't provide a forecast of how the market will move in the future.



Unlike historical volatility, implied volatility comes from the price of an option itself and represents volatility expectations for the future. Because it is implied, traders cannot use past performance as an indicator of future performance. Instead, they have to estimate the potential of the option in the market.






Implied volatility is a key feature of options trading.


  Historical Volatility  

Also referred to as statistical volatility, historical volatility (HV) gauges the fluctuations of underlying securities by measuring price changes over predetermined periods of time. It is the less prevalent metric compared to implied volatility because it isn't forward-looking.



When there is a rise in historical volatility, a security's price will also move more than normal. At this time, there is an expectation that something will or has changed. If the historical volatility is dropping, on the other hand, it means any uncertainty has been eliminated, so things return to the way they were.



This calculation may be based on intraday changes, but often measures movements based on the change from one closing price to the next. Depending on the intended duration of the options trade, historical volatility can be measured in increments ranging anywhere from 10 to 180 trading days.


   Volatility and Options Pricing  

Volatility is a key variable in options pricing models, estimating the extent to which the return of the underlying asset will fluctuate between now and the option's expiration. Volatility, as expressed as a percentage coefficient within option-pricing formulas, arises from daily trading activities. How volatility is measured will affect the value of the coefficient used.



Volatility is also used to price options contracts using models like Black-Scholes or binomial tree models. More volatile underlying assets will translate to higher options premiums because with volatility there is a greater probability that the options will end up in-the-money at expiration. Options traders try to predict an asset's future volatility, so the price of an option in the market reflects its implied volatility.






The greater the volatility, the higher the market price of options contracts across the board.


   Other Measures of Volatility  
  Beta  

One measure of the relative volatility of a particular stock to the market is its beta (β). A beta approximates the overall volatility of a security's returns against the returns of a relevant benchmark (usually the S&P 500 is used). For example, a stock with a beta value of 1.1 has historically moved 110% for every 100% move in the benchmark, based on price level.



Conversely, a stock with a beta of .9 has historically moved 90% for every 100% move in the underlying index.


  The VIX  

Market volatility can also be seen through the Volatility Index (VIX), a numeric measure of broad market volatility. The VIX was created by the Chicago Board Options Exchange as a measure to gauge the 30-day expected volatility of the U.S. stock market derived from real-time quote prices of S&P 500 call-and-put options. It is effectively a gauge of future bets investors and traders are making on the direction of the markets or individual securities. A high reading on the VIX implies a risky market.



Traders can also trade the VIX using a variety of options and exchange-traded products, or they can use VIX values to price certain derivative products.


   Tips on Managing Volatility  

Investors can find periods of high volatility to be distressing as prices can swing wildly or fall suddenly. Long-term investors are best advised to ignore periods of short-term volatility and stay the course. This is because over the long run, stock markets tend to rise. Meanwhile, emotions like fear and greed, which can become amplified in volatility markets, can undermine your long-term strategy. Some investors can also use volatility as an opportunity to add to their portfolios by buying the dips, when prices are relatively cheap.



You can also use hedging strategies to navigate volatility, such as buying protective puts to limit downside losses without having to sell any shares. But note that put options will also become more pricey when volatility is higher.


   Example of Volatility  

Suppose that an investor is building a retirement portfolio. Since she is retiring within the next few years, she's seeking stocks with low volatility and steady returns. She considers two companies:



ABC Corp. has a beta coefficient of .78, which makes it slightly less volatile than the S&P 500 index.XYZ, Inc. has a beta coefficient of 1.45, making it significantly more volatile than the S&P 500 index.



A more conservative investor may choose ABC Corp. for its portfolio, since it has less volatility and more predictable short-term value




What Is Volatility, Mathematically?
Volatility is a statistical measure of the dispersion of data around its mean over a certain period of time. It's calculated as the standard deviation multiplied by the square root of the number of periods of time, T. In finance, it represents this dispersion of market prices, on an annualized basis.




Is Volatility the Same As Risk?
Volatility is often used to describe risk, but this is not necessarily always the case. Risk involves the chances of experiencing a loss, while volatility describes how large and quickly prices move. If those increased price movements also increase the chance of losses, then risk is likewise increased.




Is Volatility a Good Thing?
Whether volatility is a good or bad thing depends on what kind of trader you are and what your risk appetite is. For long-term investors, volatility can spell trouble, but for day traders and options traders, volatility often equals trading opportunities.




What Does a High Volatility Mean?
If volatility is high, it means that prices are moving (both up and down) quickly and steeply.




What Is the VIX?
The VIX is the CBOE volatility index, a measure of the short-term volatility in the broader market, measured by the implied volatility of 30-day S&P 500 options contracts. The VIX generally rises when stocks fall, and declines when stocks rise. Also known as the "fear index," the VIX can thus be a gauge of market sentiment, with higher values indicating greater volatility and greater fear among investors.


   The Bottom Line  

Volatility is how much and how quickly prices move over a given span of time. In the stock market, increased volatility is often a sign of fear and uncertainty among investors. This is why the VIX volatility index is sometimes called the "fear index." At the same time, volatility can create opportunities for day traders to enter and exit positions. Volatility is also a key component in options pricing and trading.
What Is Volatility Arbitrage?  

Volatility arbitrage is a trading strategy that attempts to profit from the difference between the forecasted future price volatility of an asset, like a stock, and the implied volatility of options based on that asset.



Volatility arbitrage has several associated risks, including the timing of the holding positions, potential price changes of the asset, and the uncertainty in the implied volatility estimate.





Key Takeaways

Volatility arbitrage is a trading strategy used to profit from the difference between the forecasted future price volatility and the implied volatility of options based on an asset, like a stock.An investor must be right about whether implied volatility is over-or under-priced when considering a trade.Suppose an underlying stock price moves faster than an investor assumed. In that case, the strategy will have to be adjusted, which depending on market conditions, could be impossible, or at the very least, expensive.If a trader thinks a stock option was underpriced because implied volatility was too low, they may consider opening a long call option combined with a short position in the underlying stock to profit off the forecast.A hedge fund trader might study volatility arbitrage to make trades.


   How Volatility Arbitrage Works  

Because options pricing is affected by the volatility of the underlying asset, if the forecasted and implied volatilities differ, there will be a discrepancy between the expected price of the option and its actual market price.



A volatility arbitrage strategy can be implemented through a delta-neutral portfolio consisting of an option and its underlying asset. For example, suppose a trader thought a stock option was underpriced because implied volatility was too low. In that case, they may open a long call option combined with a short position in the underlying stock to profit from that forecast. If the stock price doesn't move, and the trader is correct about implied volatility rising, then the cost of the option will increase.



Alternatively, if the trader believes that the implied volatility is too high and will fall, they may decide to open a long position in the stock and a short position in a call option. Assuming the stock's price doesn't move, the trader may profit as the option falls in value with a decline in implied volatility.






A volatility arbitrage strategy is complex and carries risk for traders, but it can be implemented using a delta-neutral portfolio consisting of an option and its underlying asset.


   Special Considerations  

There are several assumptions a trader must make, which will increase the complexity of a volatility arbitrage strategy.



First, the investor must be right about whether implied volatility is over-or under-priced. Second, the investor must be correct about the amount of time it will take for the strategy to profit, or the time value erosion could outpace any potential gains.



Finally, if the underlying stock price moves more quickly than expected, the strategy will have to be adjusted, which may be expensive, or impossible depending on market conditions.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Volatility?  

Volatility is a statistical measure of the dispersion of returns for a given security or market index. In most cases, the higher the volatility, the riskier the security. Volatility is often measured from either the standard deviation or variance between returns from that same security or market index.



In the securities markets, volatility is often associated with big swings in either direction. For example, when the stock market rises and falls more than one percent over a sustained period of time, it is called a volatile market. An asset's volatility is a key factor when pricing options contracts.





Key Takeaways

Volatility represents how large an asset's prices swing around the mean price—it is a statistical measure of its dispersion of returns.There are several ways to measure volatility, including beta coefficients, option pricing models, and standard deviations of returns.Volatile assets are often considered riskier than less volatile assets because the price is expected to be less predictable.Implied volatility measures how volatile the market will be while historical volatility measures price changes over predetermined periods of timeVolatility is an important variable for calculating options prices.


   Understanding Volatility  

Volatility often refers to the amount of uncertainty or risk related to the size of changes in a security's value. A higher volatility means that a security's value can potentially be spread out over a larger range of values. This means that the price of the security can change dramatically over a short time period in either direction. A lower volatility means that a security's value does not fluctuate dramatically, and tends to be more steady.



One way to measure an asset's variation is to quantify the daily returns (percent move on a daily basis) of the asset. Historical volatility is based on historical prices and represents the degree of variability in the returns of an asset. This number is without a unit and is expressed as a percentage.



While variance captures the dispersion of returns around the mean of an asset in general, volatility is a measure of that variance bounded by a specific period of time. Thus, we can report daily volatility, weekly, monthly, or annualized volatility. It is, therefore, useful to think of volatility as the annualized standard deviation.






   How to Calculate Volatility  

Volatility is often calculated using variance and standard deviation (the standard deviation is the square root of the variance). Since volatility describes changes over a specific period of time you simply take the standard deviation and multiply that by the square root of the number of periods in question:



vol = σ√T



where:



v = volatility over some interval of timeσ =standard deviation of returnsT = number of periods in the time horizon



For simplicity, let's assume we have monthly stock closing prices of $1 through $10. For example, month one is $1, month two is $2, and so on. To calculate variance, follow the five steps below.



Find the mean of the data set. This means adding each value and then dividing it by the number of values. If we add, $1, plus $2, plus $3, all the way to up to $10, we get $55. This is divided by 10 because we have 10 numbers in our data set. This provides a mean, or average price, of $5.50.
Calculate the difference between each data value and the mean. This is often called deviation. For example, we take $10 - $5.50 = $4.50, then $9 - $5.50 = $3.50. This continues all the way down to the first data value of $1. Negative numbers are allowed. Since we need each value, these calculations are frequently done in a spreadsheet.
Square the deviations. This will eliminate negative values.
Add the squared deviations together. In our example, this equals 82.5.
Divide the sum of the squared deviations (82.5) by the number of data values.



In this case, the resulting variance is $8.25. The square root is taken to get the standard deviation. This equals $2.87. This is a measure of risk and shows how values are spread out around the average price. It gives traders an idea of how far the price may deviate from the average.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang



If prices are randomly sampled from a normal distribution, then about 68% of all data values will fall within one standard deviation. Ninety-five percent of data values will fall within two standard deviations (2 x 2.87 in our example), and 99.7% of all values will fall within three standard deviations (3 x 2.87).



In this case, the values of $1 to $10 are not randomly distributed on a bell curve; rather. they are uniformly distributed. Therefore, the expected 68%–95%º–99.7% percentages do not hold. Despite this limitation, traders frequently use standard deviation, as price returns data sets often resemble more of a normal (bell curve) distribution than in the given example.






The volatility of stock prices is thought to be mean-reverting, meaning that periods of high volatility often moderate and periods of low volatility pick up, fluctuating around some long-term mean.


   Types of Volatility  
  Implied Volatility  

Implied volatility (IV), also known as projected volatility, is one of the most important metrics for options traders. As the name suggests, it allows them to make a determination of just how volatile the market will be going forward. This concept also gives traders a way to calculate probability. One important point to note is that it shouldn't be considered science, so it doesn't provide a forecast of how the market will move in the future.



Unlike historical volatility, implied volatility comes from the price of an option itself and represents volatility expectations for the future. Because it is implied, traders cannot use past performance as an indicator of future performance. Instead, they have to estimate the potential of the option in the market.






Implied volatility is a key feature of options trading.


  Historical Volatility  

Also referred to as statistical volatility, historical volatility (HV) gauges the fluctuations of underlying securities by measuring price changes over predetermined periods of time. It is the less prevalent metric compared to implied volatility because it isn't forward-looking.



When there is a rise in historical volatility, a security's price will also move more than normal. At this time, there is an expectation that something will or has changed. If the historical volatility is dropping, on the other hand, it means any uncertainty has been eliminated, so things return to the way they were.



This calculation may be based on intraday changes, but often measures movements based on the change from one closing price to the next. Depending on the intended duration of the options trade, historical volatility can be measured in increments ranging anywhere from 10 to 180 trading days.


   Volatility and Options Pricing  

Volatility is a key variable in options pricing models, estimating the extent to which the return of the underlying asset will fluctuate between now and the option's expiration. Volatility, as expressed as a percentage coefficient within option-pricing formulas, arises from daily trading activities. How volatility is measured will affect the value of the coefficient used.



Volatility is also used to price options contracts using models like Black-Scholes or binomial tree models. More volatile underlying assets will translate to higher options premiums because with volatility there is a greater probability that the options will end up in-the-money at expiration. Options traders try to predict an asset's future volatility, so the price of an option in the market reflects its implied volatility.






The greater the volatility, the higher the market price of options contracts across the board.


   Other Measures of Volatility  
  Beta  

One measure of the relative volatility of a particular stock to the market is its beta (β). A beta approximates the overall volatility of a security's returns against the returns of a relevant benchmark (usually the S&P 500 is used). For example, a stock with a beta value of 1.1 has historically moved 110% for every 100% move in the benchmark, based on price level.



Conversely, a stock with a beta of .9 has historically moved 90% for every 100% move in the underlying index.


  The VIX  

Market volatility can also be seen through the Volatility Index (VIX), a numeric measure of broad market volatility. The VIX was created by the Chicago Board Options Exchange as a measure to gauge the 30-day expected volatility of the U.S. stock market derived from real-time quote prices of S&P 500 call-and-put options. It is effectively a gauge of future bets investors and traders are making on the direction of the markets or individual securities. A high reading on the VIX implies a risky market.



Traders can also trade the VIX using a variety of options and exchange-traded products, or they can use VIX values to price certain derivative products.


   Tips on Managing Volatility  

Investors can find periods of high volatility to be distressing as prices can swing wildly or fall suddenly. Long-term investors are best advised to ignore periods of short-term volatility and stay the course. This is because over the long run, stock markets tend to rise. Meanwhile, emotions like fear and greed, which can become amplified in volatility markets, can undermine your long-term strategy. Some investors can also use volatility as an opportunity to add to their portfolios by buying the dips, when prices are relatively cheap.



You can also use hedging strategies to navigate volatility, such as buying protective puts to limit downside losses without having to sell any shares. But note that put options will also become more pricey when volatility is higher.


   Example of Volatility  

Suppose that an investor is building a retirement portfolio. Since she is retiring within the next few years, she's seeking stocks with low volatility and steady returns. She considers two companies:



ABC Corp. has a beta coefficient of .78, which makes it slightly less volatile than the S&P 500 index.XYZ, Inc. has a beta coefficient of 1.45, making it significantly more volatile than the S&P 500 index.



A more conservative investor may choose ABC Corp. for its portfolio, since it has less volatility and more predictable short-term value




What Is Volatility, Mathematically?
Volatility is a statistical measure of the dispersion of data around its mean over a certain period of time. It's calculated as the standard deviation multiplied by the square root of the number of periods of time, T. In finance, it represents this dispersion of market prices, on an annualized basis.




Is Volatility the Same As Risk?
Volatility is often used to describe risk, but this is not necessarily always the case. Risk involves the chances of experiencing a loss, while volatility describes how large and quickly prices move. If those increased price movements also increase the chance of losses, then risk is likewise increased.




Is Volatility a Good Thing?
Whether volatility is a good or bad thing depends on what kind of trader you are and what your risk appetite is. For long-term investors, volatility can spell trouble, but for day traders and options traders, volatility often equals trading opportunities.




What Does a High Volatility Mean?
If volatility is high, it means that prices are moving (both up and down) quickly and steeply.




What Is the VIX?
The VIX is the CBOE volatility index, a measure of the short-term volatility in the broader market, measured by the implied volatility of 30-day S&P 500 options contracts. The VIX generally rises when stocks fall, and declines when stocks rise. Also known as the "fear index," the VIX can thus be a gauge of market sentiment, with higher values indicating greater volatility and greater fear among investors.


   The Bottom Line  

Volatility is how much and how quickly prices move over a given span of time. In the stock market, increased volatility is often a sign of fear and uncertainty among investors. This is why the VIX volatility index is sometimes called the "fear index." At the same time, volatility can create opportunities for day traders to enter and exit positions. Volatility is also a key component in options pricing and trading.
What Is the Volatility Ratio?  

The volatility ratio is a technical measure used to identify price patterns and breakouts. In technical analysis, it uses true range to gain an understanding of how a security’s price is moving on the current day in comparison to its past volatility.



There are several different versions of volatility ratios, the most common being adaptations of average true range (ATR).





Key Takeaways

The volatility ratio measures relative changes in an asset's price movements in order to identify trading opportunities.Technical traders employ true range, or the difference between the high and low prices on any given day, to reveal how volatile a stock is.The most common version of a volatility ratio takes the proportion of an asset's day true range to its average true range.


   Understanding Volatility Ratios  

The volatility ratio is a measure that helps investors follow the volatility of a stock’s price. It is one of a few technical indicators focused on volatility. In general, the standard deviation is typically one of the most common measures used for following volatility. Standard deviation forms the basis for several technical channels including Bollinger Bands.



Comprehensive envelope channels of many different varieties are used by technical analysts to identify price ranges and volatility patterns that help lead to trading signals. Historical volatility is also another common trendline that can be used to follow volatility.



The volatility ratio was developed to contribute to the analysis of price volatility. Across the industry, volatility and volatility ratio calculations may vary. For technical analysis, Jack Schwager is known for introducing the concept of a volatility ratio in his book Technical Analysis.


   Calculating the Volatility Ratio  

Schwager’s methodology for calculating the volatility ratio builds on the concept of true range, which was developed and introduced by Welles Wilder but has several iterations. Schwager calculates the volatility ratio from the following:


















VR


=



TTR


ATR

















where:
















VR


=


Volatility Ratio
















TTR


=


Today’s True Range
















Today’s True Range


=


Max


−


Min
















Max


=


Today’s High, Yesterday’s Close
















Min


=


Today’s Low, Yesterday’s Close
















ATR


=


Average True Range of the Past N-Day Period







\begin{aligned} &\text{VR} = \frac { \text{TTR} }{ \text{ATR} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{VR} = \text{Volatility Ratio} \\ &\text{TTR} = \text{Today's True Range} \\ &\text{Today's True Range} = \text{Max} - \text{Min} \\ &\text{Max} = \text{Today's High, Yesterday's Close} \\ &\text{Min} = \text{Today's Low, Yesterday's Close} \\ &\text{ATR} = \text{Average True Range of the Past N-Day Period} \\ \end{aligned}


​VR=ATRTTR​where:VR=Volatility RatioTTR=Today’s True RangeToday’s True Range=Max−MinMax=Today’s High, Yesterday’s CloseMin=Today’s Low, Yesterday’s CloseATR=Average True Range of the Past N-Day Period​



Other iterations of the volatility ratio may include the following:


















VR


=




∣


TTR


∣



ATR

















where:
















| TTR |


=


Absolute Value of Max
















Absolute Value of Max


=


TH


−


TL


,


TH


−


YC


,


YC


−


TL
















TH


=


Today’s High
















TL


=


Today’s Low
















YC


=


Yesterday’s Close







\begin{aligned} &\text{VR} = \frac { \mid \text{TTR} \mid }{ \text{ATR} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{| TTR |} = \text{Absolute Value of Max} \\ &\text{Absolute Value of Max} = \text{TH} - \text{TL}, \text{TH} - \text{YC}, \text{YC} - \text{TL} \\ &\text{TH} = \text{Today's High} \\ &\text{TL} = \text{Today's Low} \\ &\text{YC} = \text{Yesterday's Close} \\ \end{aligned}


​VR=ATR∣TTR∣​where:| TTR |=Absolute Value of MaxAbsolute Value of Max=TH−TL,TH−YC,YC−TLTH=Today’s HighTL=Today’s LowYC=Yesterday’s Close​


















VR


=




∣


TTR


∣



EMA

















where:
















EMA


=


Exponential Moving Average of the True Range
















of the Past N-Day Period







\begin{aligned} &\text{VR} = \frac { \mid \text{TTR} \mid }{ \text{EMA} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{EMA} = \text{Exponential Moving Average of the True Range} \\ &\text{of the Past N-Day Period} \\ \end{aligned}


​VR=EMA∣TTR∣​where:EMA=Exponential Moving Average of the True Rangeof the Past N-Day Period​


   Volatility Ratio Signals  

Investors and traders will have their own mechanisms for following and detecting patterns from the volatility ratio. This ratio is typically plotted as a single line on a technical chart either as an overlay or in its own display window.



A higher volatility ratio will signal substantial price volatility in the current trading day. In general, volatility can be a signal of disturbances or developments affecting the security’s price. Therefore, high volatility may lead to a new trend for the security’s price in either a positive or negative direction. Traders follow volatility and the volatility ratio in conjunction with other trading patterns to help confirm a trading signal for investment.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
The volatility skew is the difference in implied volatility (IV) between out of the money options (OTM), at the money options (ATM) and in the money options (ITM). The volatility skew, which is affected by sentiment and the supply and demand relationship of particular options in the market, provides information on whether traders and investors prefer to write calls or puts.



Also known as a vertical skew, traders can use relative changes in skew for an options series as a trading strategy.





Key Takeaways

Volatility skew describes the observation that not all options on the same underlying and expiration have the same implied volatility assigned to them in the market.For stock options, skew indicates that downside strikes have greater implied volatility that upside strikes.For some underlying assets, there is a convex volatility "smile" that shows that demand for options is greater when they are in-the-money (ITM) or out-of-the-money (OTM), versus at-the-money (ATM).


   Why Would Volatility Skew?  

Volatility skew occurs due to the difference in implied volatility (IV) levels of options with different strike prices but the same expiration date. The IV of an option is a measure of how much the market expects the price of the underlying asset to move.



The primary driver of volatility skew is the collective expectations and behavior of market participants. If investors expect a significant price movement in one direction, these investors may be willing to pay more for options that would profit from that move. This increased demand can drive up the IV of those options, creating a skew.



Also, investors often perceive downside risk, that is, the risk of prices falling as greater than upside potential, particularly in equity markets. This is because stock prices can only go to zero, but there's theoretically no limit as to how much they can rise. As a result, investors are often willing to pay more for put options which increase in value when prices fall, than for call options, which increase in value when prices rise. This can result in higher IV for OTM put options, creating a volatility skew.



Additionally, certain market events, such as earnings announcements or economic reports, can also create a volatility skew. If investors expect these events to cause significant price movements, they may be willing to pay more for options that would profit from those movements. This can create a temporary volatility skew that disappears after the event.



Indeed, events such as major market downturns or financial crises can lead to volatility skews. For example the 1987 stock market crash led to a significant volatility skew as investors rushed to buy put options to protect against further declines.



The shape of the volatility skew can provide valuable information about market expectations and potential future price movements. However, it's important for traders and investors to remember that these are just expectations, and actual future price movements may be different.






Implied volatility values are often computed using the Black-Scholes option pricing model or modified versions of it.


   The Interpretation of a Volatility Skew  

Interpreting a volatility skew involves understanding the implications of the shape and slope of the skew. Some interpretations of the volatility skew include:



Positive or Forward Skew: If the skew is positive, it means that OTM call options have a higher implied volatility than OTM put options. This is often seen in commodities markets where a sudden demand spike can lead to significant price increases. A positive skew suggests that the market is expecting an upward price movement.
Negative or Reverse Skew: If the skew is negative, it means that OTM put options have a higher implied volatility than OTM call options. This is often seen in equity markets where investors are more concerned about price drops and hence are willing to pay more for put options to protect their investments. A negative skew suggests that the market is expecting a downward price movement.
Smile: If the implied volatility is higher for both OTM call and put options compared to ATM options, it creates a "smile" shape. This is often seen in markets with high uncertainty or expected large price movements in either direction.
Flat or No Skew: If there is no skew, it means that the IV is the same for all options, regardless of the strike price. This suggests that the market does not expect significant movements in either direction.



It should be noted that the volatility skew is based on market expectations, which can change over time. Therefore, it's important for investors and traders to continually monitor the skew and adjust their respective strategies accordingly. Also, the skew should be used in conjunction in with other market indicators.


   Determining Abnormal Volatility  

A volatility skew can be used to identify abnormal volatility in the market. A significant change in the volatility skew can indicate abnormal volatility. One example entails when the skew becomes more negative, that is, the IV of OTM put options increase relative to call options, it could suggest that investors are expecting a significant downward price movement, which would likely be accompanied by increased volatility.



Also, by comparing the current volatility skew to its historical levels, traders and investors can identify if the current market expectations reflected in the skew are abnormal. If the skew is significantly different from its historical average, it could suggest that the market is expecting abnormal volatility.



Furthermore, a volatility smile, where the IV is higher for both OTM and ITM options compared to ATM options, can indicate that the market is expecting large price movements in either direction. This suggests abnormal volatility.



Another note is if the implied volatility varies significantly across different strike prices, that is, the skew is steep, it could suggest that the market is experiencing abnormal volatility.



While volatility skew can provide valuable insights into market expectations, it should not be used in isolation. Other factors, such as market news, economic indicators, and even other technical analysis tools, should be considered when assessing the likelihood of abnormal volatility.


  The Formation of a Volatility Smile  

A volatility smile means that the IV of options on a particular underlying security or market index increases as the options become further ITM or OTM, with the lowest point generally occurring ATM. The pattern is often depicted as a V-shaped curve.


  The Implications of a Volatility Smile  

A volatility smile has several important implications for options pricing and market expectations. They are as follows:



Market Expectations: The volatility smile reflects market expectations of future price movements. If the smile is steep, that is, the IV of ITM and OTM options is significantly higher than ATM options, it suggests that the market is expecting large price movements.
Pricing of Options: The volatility smile can affect the pricing of options. Options with strike prices in the "wings" of the smile, that is, far ITM or OTM will have higher IVs and therefore will be more expensive than if the IV was flat across all strike prices.
Risk Assessment: The shape of the volatility smile can provide information about the perceived risk in the market. A steep volatility smile might suggest that the market is perceiving a higher risk of large price movements.
Arbitrage Opportunities: In theory, options on the same underlying asset with the same expiration date but different strike prices should have the same IV. If this is not the case, as indicated by the volatility smile, it could potentially create arbitrage opportunities. However, these opportunities are often difficult to exploit in practice due to transaction costs and other market frictions.
Jump Risk: A pronounced volatility smile can indicate a market expectation of "jump risk", or the risk of large, sudden price movements. This could be due to upcoming events like earnings announcements, economic reports, or other market- moving news.
Limitations of Black-Scholes Model: The existence of a volatility smile is often seen as evidence of the limitations of the Black-Scholes model for options pricing, which assumes that volatility is constant and does not change with the strike price. The volatility smile suggests that this assumption does not hold in the real world.


   The Formation of a Volatility Smirk  

A volatility smirk occurs when IV for options on an underlying security or index decreases as the options become more deeply ITM or OTM. The pattern is often depicted as a curve that slopes downward, resembling a smirk.


   The Implications of a Volatility Smirk  

A volatility smirk has several implications for options pricing, market expectations, and risk management. This include:



Market Expectations: The volatility smirk reflects market expectations of future price movements. If the smirk is steep, that is, the IV of OTM put options is significantly higher than ATM or ITM options, it suggests that the market is expecting a significant downward price movement.Pricing of Options: Options with strike prices in the "tail" of the smirk, that is, far OTM put options will have higher IVs and therefore will be more expensive than if the volatility was flat across all strike prices.Risk Assessment: The shape of the volatility smirk can provide information about the perceived risk in the market. A steep volatility smirk might suggest that the market is perceiving a higher risk of large price movements, particularly to the downside.Arbitrage Opportunities: In theory, options on the same underlying asset with the same expiration date but different strike prices should have the same IV. If this is not the case, as indicated by a volatility smirk, it could potentially create arbitrage opportunities. However, these opportunities are often difficult to exploit in practice due to transaction costs and other market frictions.Jump Risk: Similar to a volatility smile, a pronounced volatility smirk can indicate a market expectation of "jump risk". This could be due to upcoming events like earnings announcements, economic reports, or other market-moving news.Limitations of Black-Scholes Model: The existence of a volatility smirk is often seen as evidence of the limitations of the Black-Scholes model for pricing options, which assumes that volatility is constant and does not change with the strike price. The volatility smirk suggests that this assumption does not hold in the real world.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   The Benefits and Limitations of Analyzing Volatility  

Analyzing volatility in the financial markets can provide several benefits but as with any form of analysis or technique, there are limitations.


   The Benefits of Analyzing Volatility  

Volatility is a key measure of risk in financial markets. Higher volatility typically indicates higher risk, as it suggests larger potential price swings. This can help investors assess the riskiness of different assets or portfolios.



Also, by understanding the volatility of different assets, investors can better diversify their portfolios. Assets with low correlation and different volatility levels can provide diversification benefits. Indeed, volatility is a crucial input in the pricing of derivatives, such as options. Higher volatility generally leads to higher option prices.



Furthermore, changes in volatility can provide market insights into market sentiment. For example, rising volatility may indicate increasing uncertainty or fear among market participants. Traders and investors alike use volatility to inform their investment strategies. They may use strategies such as straddles or strangles in a high-volatility environment.


  The Limitations of Analyzing Volatility  

Some limitations with analyzing volatility include the calculation of volatility, the stability of volatility, the normal distribution assumption, volatility clustering and the lack of direction in volatility analysis.



Historical volatility, calculated from past price changes, may not accurately predict future volatility. Implied volatility, derived from option prices, can provide a forward-looking estimate but is based on market participants' expectations, which may not always be accurate.



Indeed, volatility itself can be volatile. It can change rapidly in response to market events, making it difficult to predict. Moreover many models that use volatility assume that price changes follow a normal distribution. However, in reality, financial returns often exhibit skewness and kurtosis, meaning that they have asymmetric and fat-tailed distributions.



Also, financial markets often exhibit volatility clustering, where periods of low volatility tend to be followed by periods of high volatility, and low volatility periods are followed by high volatility. This complicates the analysis.



Finally, volatility measures the magnitude of price changes, but it does not provide any information about the direction of the change. High volatility could mean large price increases, large price decreases or a mixture of both.




What is Implied Volatility?
Implied volatility is a metric that attempts to capture the market's expectations of the future volatility of a security's price.




What are the Key Differences between a Volatility Skew and a Volatility Smile?
While both volatility skew and volatility smile relate to the IV across different strike prices, they represent different market expectations and conditions. The volatility skew typically reflects a greater fear of downside risk, while the smile suggests a higher probability of large price moves in either direction.




What is the Key Difference between a Reverse and Forward Skew?
The key difference between a reverse and forward skew is the direction of the skew. A reverse skew reflects a market expectation of a large downward move, that is, higher IV for lower strike prices, while a forward skew reflects a market expectations of a large upward move, that is, higher IV for higher strike prices.




What are the Common Underlying Securities when Analyzing Volatility?
Volatility analysis is a crucial part of financial markets and can be applied to a wide range of securities. Some of these securities include equities, equity indices, options, futures, foreign exchange (FX), bonds, Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and mutual funds.




Are there any other ways to Analyze Volatility?
There are several ways to analyze volatility beyond skew and smile patterns. Some ways include using historical volatility, Volatility Indices, Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity (GARCH) models, volatility term structure, volatility surface and the Average True Range (ATR).


   The Bottom Line  

Analyzing volatility provides insights into market sentiment and potential price movements, aiding in risk management and trading strategy development. It can be analyzed through various methods such as historical volatility, implied volatility, volatility indices, GARCH models, and more. However, it's important to note that while these methods can provide valuable insights, none of them can perfectly predict future volatility. They should be used as tools to help inform decision-making, not as definitive predictors of future outcomes. The limitations of analyzing volatility include the fact that it's based on past data and market sentiment, which may not accurately predict future market conditions. Additionally, high volatility can indicate higher risk, which may not be suitable for all investors.
What Is a Volatility Smile?  

A volatility smile is a common graph shape that results from plotting the strike price and implied volatility of a group of options with the same underlying asset and expiration date. The volatility smile is so named because it looks like a smiling mouth. Implied volatility rises when the underlying asset of an option is further out of the money (OTM), or in the money (ITM), compared to at the money (ATM). The volatility smile does not apply to all options.





Key Takeaways


When options with the same expiration date and the same underlying asset, but with different strike prices, are graphed for implied volatility, the tendency is for that graph to show a smile.
The smile shows that the options that are furthest in the money (ITM) or out of the money (OTM) have the highest implied volatility.
Options with the lowest implied volatility have strike prices at the money (ATM) or near the money.
Not all options will have an implied volatility smile. Near-term equity options and currency-related options are more likely to have a volatility smile.
A single option’s implied volatility may also follow the volatility smile as it moves more ITM or OTM.
While implied volatility is one factor in options pricing, it is not the only factor. A trader must be aware of what other factors are driving an option’s price and volatility.



   What Does a Volatility Smile Tell You?  

Volatility smiles are created by implied volatility changing as the underlying asset moves more ITM or OTM. The more an option is ITM or OTM, the greater its implied volatility becomes. Implied volatility tends to be lowest with ATM options.



The volatility smile is not predicted by the Black-Scholes model, which is one of the main formulas used to price options and other derivatives. The Black-Scholes model predicts that the implied volatility curve is flat when plotted against varying strike prices. Based on the model, it would be expected that the implied volatility would be the same for all options expiring on the same date with the same underlying asset, regardless of the strike price. Yet, in the real world, this is not the case.



Volatility smiles started occurring in options pricing after the 1987 stock market crash. They were not present in U.S. markets beforehand, indicating a market structure more in line with what the Black-Scholes model predicts. After 1987, traders realized that extreme events could happen and that markets have a significant skew. The possibility for extreme events needed to be factored into options pricing. Therefore, in the real world, implied volatility increases or decreases as options move more ITM or OTM.



Also, the volatility smile’s existence shows that ITM and OTM options tend to be more in demand than ATM options. Demand drives prices, which affects implied volatility. This could be partially due to the reason mentioned above. Extreme events can occur, causing significant price shifts in options. The potential for large shifts is factored into implied volatility.


   Example of How to Use the Volatility Smile  










Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



Volatility smiles can be seen when comparing various options with the same underlying asset and same expiration date but different strike prices. If the implied volatility is plotted for each of the different strike prices, then there may be a U-shape. The U-shape is not always as perfectly formed as depicted in the graph above.



For a rough estimate of whether an option has a U-shape, pull up an options chain that lists the implied volatility of the various strike prices. If the option has a U-shape, then options that are ITM and OTM by an equal amount should have roughly the same implied volatility. The further ITM or OTM, the greater the implied volatility, with the lowest implied volatilities near the ATM options. If this is not the case, then the option does not align with a volatility smile.



The implied volatility of a single option also could be plotted over time relative to the price of the underlying asset. As the price moves in or out of the money, the implied volatility may take on some form of a U-shape.



This can be useful if seeking an option that has lower implied volatility. In this case, choose an option near the money. If looking for greater implied volatility, choose an option that is further ITM or OTM. Remember, though, as the underlying asset moves closer to or farther from the strike price, this will affect the implied volatility. Therefore, maintaining a portfolio of options with a specific implied volatility will require continual reshuffling.



Not all options align with the volatility smile. Before using the volatility smile to aid in making trading decisions, check to make sure that the option’s implied volatility actually follows the smile model.


   The Difference Between a Volatility Smile and a Volatility Skew/Smirk  

While near-term equity options and forex options lean more toward aligning with a volatility smile, index options and long-term equity options tend to align more with a volatility skew. The skew/smirk shows that implied volatility may be higher for ITM or OTM options.


   Limitations of Using the Volatility Smile  

First, it is important to determine if the option being traded actually aligns with a volatility smile. The volatility smile is one model that an option may align with, but implied volatility could align more with a reverse or forward skew/smirk.



Also, due to other market factors, such as supply and demand, the volatility smile (if applicable) may not be a clean U-shape (or smirk). It may have a basic U-shape but could be choppy, with certain options showing more or less implied volatility than would be expected based on the model.



The volatility smile highlights where traders should look if they want more or less implied volatility, yet there are many other factors to consider when making an options-trading decision.
What Is a Volatility Swap?  

A volatility swap is a forward contract with a payoff based on the realized volatility of the underlying asset. They settle in cash based on the difference between the realized volatility and the volatility strike or pre-determined fixed volatility level. Volatility swaps allow participants to trade an asset's volatility without directly trading the underlying asset.



Volatility swaps are not swaps in the traditional sense, with an exchange of cash flows between counterparties.



They are also similar to variance swaps, where the payoff is based on realized variance.





Key Takeaways

A volatility swap is a forward contract with a payoff based on the difference between realized volatility and a volatility strike.The payoff for a volatility swap is the notional value of the contract multiplied by the difference between realized volatility and the volatility strike.Volatility swaps are not swaps in the typical sense, as usually swaps involve an exchange of cash flows based on fixed and/or varying rates. Volatility swaps aren't an exchange of cash flows, but rather a payoff-based instrument based on volatility.


   Understanding Volatility Swaps  

Volatility swaps are pure volatility instruments allowing investors to speculate solely upon the movement of an underlying asset's volatility without the influence of its price. Thus, just like investors speculate on the prices of assets, by using this instrument, investors are able to speculate on how volatile the asset will be.



The name swap, in this case, is a misnomer because swaps are structured contracts consisting of cash flow exchanges, typically matching a fixed rate with a variable rate. Volatility swaps, and variance swaps, are actually forward contracts with payoffs based on the observed or realized variance of the underlying asset.



At settlement, the payoff is:



Payoff = Notional Amount * (Volatility – Volatility Strike)






At inception, the notional amount is not exchanged.



The volatility strike is a fixed number that reflects the market’s expectation of volatility at the time the swap begins. In a sense, the volatility strike represents implied volatility, although it is not the same as traditional implied volatility in options. The strike itself is typically set at the beginning of the swap to make the net present value (NPV) of the payoff zero. What volatility actually ends up being at the end of the contract determines the payoff, assuming it is different than the implied volatility/volatility strike.


   Using Volatility Swaps  

A volatility swap is a pure-play on an underlying asset's volatility. Options also give an investor the possibility to speculate on an asset's volatility. However, options carry directional risk, and their prices depend on many factors, including time, expiration, and implied volatility. Therefore, the equivalent options strategy requires additional risk hedging to complete. Volatility swaps don't require this, they are simply based on volatility.



There are three main classes of users for volatility swaps.



Directional traders use these swaps to speculate on the future level of volatility for an asset.
Spread traders merely bet on the difference between realized volatility and implied volatility.
Hedge traders use swaps to cover short volatility positions.






Variance swaps are far more common in equity markets than volatility swaps.


   Example of How to Use a Volatility Swap  

Assume that an institutional trader wants a volatility swap on the S&P 500 index. The contract will expire in twelve months and has a notional value of $1 million. Currently, the implied volatility is 12%. This is set as the strike for the contract.



In twelve month's time, volatility is 16%. This is the realized volatility. There is a 4% difference, or $40,000 ($1 million x 4%). The seller of the volatility swap pays the swap buyer $40,000, assuming the seller is holding the fixed leg and the buyer the floating leg.



If volatility dropped to 10%, the buyer would pay the seller $20,000 ($1 million x 2%).



This is a simplified example. Since volatility swaps are over-the-counter instruments (OTC) they can be constructed in different ways. Some alternatives may be to annualize the rates or calculate the difference in volatility in terms of daily changes.
What Is the Volcker Rule?  

The Volcker Rule is a federal regulation that generally prohibits banks from conducting certain investment activities with their own accounts and limits their dealings with hedge funds and private equity funds, also called covered funds.





Key Takeaways

The Volcker Rule prohibits banks from using their own accounts for short-term proprietary trading of securities, derivatives, and commodity futures, as well as options on any of these instruments. On June 25, 2020, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) officials said the agency will loosen the restrictions of the Volcker Rule, allowing banks to more easily make large investments into venture capital and similar funds.The main criticism of the Volcker Rule is that it will reduce liquidity due to a reduction in banks’ market-making activities.


   Understanding the Volcker Rule  

The Volcker Rule aims to protect bank customers by preventing banks from making certain types of speculative investments that contributed to the 2007–2008 financial crisis. Essentially, it prohibits banks from using their own accounts for short-term proprietary trading of securities, derivatives, and commodity futures, as well as options on any of these instruments.



In August 2019, the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) voted to amend the Volcker Rule in an attempt to clarify what securities trading was and was not allowed by banks. On June 25, 2020, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) officials said the agency will loosen the restrictions of the Volcker Rule, allowing banks to more easily make large investments into venture capital and similar funds.






The Volcker Rule aims to protect bank customers by preventing banks from making certain types of speculative investments that contributed to the 2007–2008 financial crisis.



In addition, banks will not have to set aside as much cash for derivatives trades among different units of the same firm. That requirement had been put in place in the original rule to ensure that banks wouldn’t get wiped out if speculative derivative bets went wrong. Loosening those requirements could free up billions of dollars in capital for the industry.



The Volcker Rule is named after economist and former Federal Reserve (Fed) Chair Paul Volcker, who died on Dec. 8, 2019, at age 92. The Volcker Rule refers to section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which sets forth rules for implementing section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.



The Volcker Rule also bars banks, or insured depository institutions, from acquiring or retaining ownership interests in hedge funds or private equity funds, subject to certain exemptions. In other words, the rule aims to discourage banks from taking too much risk by barring them from using their own funds to make these types of investments to increase profits. The Volcker Rule relies on the premise that these speculative trading activities do not benefit banks’ customers.



The rule went into effect on April 1, 2014, with banks’ full compliance required by July 21, 2015—although the Fed has since set procedures for banks to request extended time to transition into full compliance for certain activities and investments. On May 30, 2018, Fed board members, led by Chair Jerome “Jay” Powell, voted unanimously to push forward a proposal to loosen the restrictions around the Volcker Rule and reduce the costs for banks that need to comply with it. The goal, according to Powell, was “...to replace overly complex and inefficient requirements with a more streamlined set of requirements.”



The rule, as it exists, allows banks to continue market making, underwriting, hedging, trading government securities, engaging in insurance company activities, offering hedge funds and private equity funds, and acting as agents, brokers, or custodians. Banks may continue to offer these services to their customers to generate profits. However, banks cannot engage in these activities if doing so would create a material conflict of interest, expose the institution to high-risk assets or trading strategies, or generate instability within either the bank or the overall U.S. financial system.



Depending on their size, banks must meet varying levels of reporting requirements to disclose details of their covered trading activities to the government. Larger institutions must implement a program to ensure compliance with the new rules, and their programs are subject to independent testing and analysis. Smaller institutions are subject to lesser compliance and reporting requirements.


   Additional History of the Volcker Rule  

The rule’s origins date back to 2009, when Volcker proposed a piece of regulation in response to the ongoing financial crisis (and after the nation’s largest banks accumulated large losses from their proprietary trading arms) that aimed to prohibit banks from speculating in the markets. Volcker ultimately hoped to reestablish the divide between commercial banking and investment banking—a division that once existed but was legally dissolved by a partial repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act in 1999.



Although not a part of then-President Barack Obama’s original proposal for financial overhaul, the Volcker Rule was endorsed by Obama and added to the proposal by Congress in January 2010.



In December 2013, five federal agencies—the Board of Governors of the Fed; the FDIC; the OCC; the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC); and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)—approved the final regulations that make up the Volcker Rule.






A bank may be excluded from the Volcker Rule if it does not have more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets and does not have total trading assets and liabilities of 5% or more of total consolidated assets.


   Criticism of the Volcker Rule  

The Volcker Rule has been widely criticized from various angles. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce claimed in 2017 that a cost-benefit analysis was never done and that the costs associated with the Volcker Rule outweigh its benefits. That same year, the top risk official of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said that regulations to prevent speculative bets are hard to enforce and that the Volcker Rule could unintentionally diminish liquidity in the bond market.



The Fed’s Finance and Economics Discussion Series (FEDS) made a similar argument, saying that the Volcker Rule will reduce liquidity due to a reduction in banks’ market-making activities. Furthermore, in October 2017, a Reuters report revealed that the European Union (EU) had scrapped a drafted law that many characterized as Europe’s answer to the Volcker Rule, citing no foreseeable agreement in sight. Meanwhile, several reports have cited a lighter-than-expected impact on the revenues of big banks in the years following the rule’s enactment—although ongoing developments in the rule’s implementation could affect future operations.


   Future of the Volcker Rule  

In February 2017, then-President Donald Trump signed an executive order directing then-Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to review existing financial system regulations. Since the executive order, Treasury officials have released multiple reports proposing changes to Dodd-Frank, including a recommended proposal to allow banks greater exemptions under the Volcker Rule.



In one of the reports, released in June 2017, the Treasury said it recommends significant changes to the Volcker Rule while adding that it does not support its repeal and “supports in principle” the rule’s limitations on proprietary trading. The report notably recommends exempting from the Volcker Rule banks with less than $10 billion in assets. The Treasury also cited regulatory compliance burdens created by the rule and suggested simplifying and refining the definitions of proprietary trading and covered funds on top of softening the regulation to allow banks to more easily hedge their risks.



Since the June 2017 assessment, Bloomberg reported in January 2018 that the OCC has led efforts to revise the Volcker Rule in accordance with some of the Treasury’s recommendations. A time line for any proposed revisions to take effect remains unclear, though it would certainly take months or years. In June 2020, bank regulators loosened one of the Volcker Rule provisions to allow lenders to invest in venture capital funds and other assets.



After the election of President Joseph Biden in 2020, the new administration signaled its support to reverse the Trump era diminutions to the financial system regulations.




What was the goal of the Volcker Rule?
The Volcker Rule’s origins date back to 2009, when economist and former Federal Reserve (Fed) Chair Paul Volcker proposed a piece of regulation in response to the ongoing financial crisis (and after the nation’s largest banks accumulated large losses from their proprietary trading arms). The aim was to protect bank customers by preventing banks from making certain types of speculative investments that contributed to the crisis.Essentially, it prohibits banks from using their own accounts (customer funds) for short-term proprietary trading of securities, derivatives, and commodity futures, as well as options on any of these instruments. Volcker ultimately hoped to reestablish the divide between commercial banking and investment banking—a division that once existed but was legally dissolved by a partial repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act in 1999.




What are the main criticisms of the Volcker Rule?
The Volcker Rule has been widely criticized from various angles. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce claimed in 2017 that a cost-benefit analysis was never done and that the costs associated with the Volcker Rule outweigh its benefits. The Fed’s Finance and Economics Discussion Series (FEDS) argued that the Volcker Rule will reduce liquidity due to a reduction in banks’ market-making activities. Additionally, International Monetary Fund (IMF) analysts have argued that regulations to prevent speculative bets are hard to enforce.




What was the Glass-Steagall Act?
Spurred by the failure of almost 5,000 banks during the Great Depression, the Glass-Steagall Act was passed by the U.S. Congress as part of the Banking Act of 1933. Sponsored by Sen. Carter Glass, a former Treasury secretary, and Rep. Henry Steagall, chair of the House Banking and Currency Committee, it prohibited commercial banks from participating in the investment banking business and vice versa. The rationale was the conflict of interest that arose when banks invested in securities with their own assets, which of course were actually their account holders’ assets. Simply put, the bill’s proponents argued that banks had a fiduciary duty to protect these assets and not to engage in excessively speculative activity.


   The Bottom Line  

The Volcker Rule is intended to restrict high-risk, speculative trading activity by banks, such as proprietary trading or investing in or sponsoring hedge funds or private equity funds. It maintains banks’ abilities to offer important customer-oriented financial services, such as underwriting, market making, and asset management services.



The regulations have been developed by five federal financial regulatory agencies, all described above: the Federal Reserve Board; the CFTC; the FDIC; the OCC; and the SEC.
What Is Volume?  

Volume is the amount of an asset or security that changes hands over some period of time, often over the course of a trading day. For instance, a stock's trading volume refers to the number of shares traded between its daily open and close. Trading volume, and changes in volume over the course of time, are important inputs for technical traders.





Key Takeaways

Volume is the number of shares of a security traded during a given period of time.Generally, securities with higher daily volume are more liquid than those without since they are more active.Volume is an important indicator in technical analysis because it measures the relative significance of a market move.The higher the volume during a price move, the more significant the move; the lower the volume during a price move, the less significant the move.


   Understanding Volume  

Every transaction that takes place between a buyer and seller of a security contributes to the total volume count of that security. One transaction—a trade—occurs whenever a buyer agrees to purchase what a seller offers at a specific price. So, if only five transactions occur in one day, the trading volume for that day is five.



Each exchange tracks its trading volume(s) and provides data to traders and investors for free or a subscription fee. Trade volume numbers are reported as often as once an hour throughout the current trading day, but reported daily and hourly trade volumes are estimates. Final trading volume figures are reported the following day.






Investors may also follow a security’s tick volume, or the number of changes in a contract's price, as a surrogate for trade volume since prices tend to change more frequently with a higher trade volume.



Volume tells traders about a market's activity and liquidity. Higher trade volumes for a specific security means higher liquidity, better order execution, and a more active market for connecting buyers and sellers. When investors feel hesitant about the stock market's direction, futures trading volume tends to increase, which often causes options and futures on specified securities to trade more actively. Volume overall tends to be higher near the market's opening and closing times and on Mondays and Fridays. It tends to be lower at lunchtime and before a holiday.


   Volume in Technical Analysis  

Some investors use technical analysis, a strategy that uses changes in stock price to make decisions about buying or selling a stock. Technical analysts are primarily looking for entry and exit price points; volume levels are important because they provide clues to where the best entry and exit points might be.



Volume is an important indicator in technical analysis because it measures the relative significance of any market move. If the market moves a large amount during a given period, then the strength of that movement either gains credibility or is viewed with skepticism based on the volume observed. The higher the volume during the price move, the more significant the move is considered in this form of analysis. Conversely, if the volume is low, then the move is viewed with less significance.






Volume is one of the most important measures of the strength of a security for traders and technical analysts. From an auction perspective, when buyers and sellers become particularly active at a specific price, it means there is a high volume.



Analysts use bar charts to quickly determine trading volume. Bar charts also make it easier to identify trends in volume. When the bars on a bar chart are higher than average, it's a sign of high volume or strength at a particular market price. By examining bar charts, analysts can use volume as a way to confirm a price movement. If volume increases when the price moves up or down, it is considered a price movement with strength.



If traders want to confirm a reversal on a level of support, or floor, they look for high buying volume. Conversely, if traders want to confirm a break in the level of support, they look for low volume from buyers. To confirm a reversal on a level of resistance, or ceiling, traders look for high selling volume. Conversely, to confirm a break in the level of resistance, they look for high volume from buyers.


   Other Considerations  

Recently, high-frequency traders (HFT) and index funds have become major contributors to trading volume statistics in U.S. markets. Many trades are conducted by high-frequency algorithmic traders, which are automated trading platforms programmed to make trades. By 2030, algorithmic trading is expected to gain a market size of $41.9 billion.



Volume may or may not be as significant if automated trading takes over the market. According to various reports, between 60% and 80% of daily trading volume is conducted by automation. If this is true, it could change the way traders view volume.




What Does Volume Mean in Stock?
Volume in the stock market is the amount of stocks traded per period.




What Is a Good Volume for a Stock?
Traders usually have their own definitions of good trading volume. It's best to do your research to determine your preferred volume or consult a trading or investing professional.




How Much is 1 Volume in Stocks?
If a stock has a trading volume of one, it means only one share was traded during the measured period.


   The Bottom Line  

A stock's volume is the number of shares traded in a given period. Traders and investors use the metric to gauge the interest in a security to help them make trading decisions. When trading volume is up—whether it's buying or selling volume—it means the security is gaining attention and trading activity is increasing.



Determining whether high or low buying and selling volume is good for you depends on your strategy and outlook. The combination of these four elements makes for a market in which you can profit from any price moves if you've done your homework, created a strategy, and disciplined yourself to stick to your trading plan.
What Is Volume Analysis?  

Volume analysis is the examination of the number of shares or contracts of a security that have been traded in a given period. Volume analysis is used by technical analysts as one of many factors that inform their trading decisions. By analyzing trends in volume in conjunction with price movements, investors can determine the significance of changes in a security's price.





Key Takeaways

Volume analysis involves examining relative or absolute changes in an asset's trading volume to make inferences about future price movements.Volume can be an indicator of market strength, as rising markets on increasing volume are typically viewed as strong and healthy. When prices fall on increasing volume, the trend is gathering strength to the downside.Various tools, such as the positive volume index (PVI) employ volume in technical analysis.


   Understanding Volume Analysis  

Volume analysis is done by all types of analysts following specific securities in the financial markets. Generally, volume refers to the number of shares transacted per day. Having an understanding of the entire market’s trading volume versus the volume of a single holding can be one important comparison that helps analysts to discern volume trends.



Oftentimes, high volumes of trading can infer a lot about investors’ outlook on a market or security. A significant price increase along with a significant volume increase, for example, could be a credible sign of a continued bullish trend or a bullish reversal. Adversely, a significant price decrease with a significant volume increase can point to a continued bearish trend or a bearish trend reversal.



In general, it can be important for technical analysts to include volume charts in daily charting diagrams. Volume charts are usually available below a standard candlestick graph. These charts will also usually display moving average trendlines.



Incorporating volume into a trading decision can help an investor to have a more balanced view of all the broad market factors that could be influencing a security’s price which helps an investor to make a more informed decision.


   Volume Indicators  

In technical analysis, there are two popular indicators designed specifically to support investors that incorporate volume into their trading decisions. The Positive Volume Index (PVI) and Negative Volume Index (NVI) were developed by Paul Dysart in the 1930s. These indexes increased in popularity in 1975 when they were discussed in a 1976 book titled "Stock Market Logic" by Norman Fosback.



The PVI and NVI are both based on the previous day’s trading volume and a security’s market price. When trading volume increases from the previous day the PVI is adjusted. When trading volume decreases from the previous day the NVI is adjusted. These basic index calculations show how volume is affecting price.



When PVI increases or decreases, it means that price changes are being driven by high volumes. Conversely, when NVI increases or decreases it means that prices are fluctuating with little effect from volume.


   Calculating the Positive Volume Index  

If current volume is greater than the previous day's volume:


















PVI


=



PVI



p


r


e


v


i


o


u


s




+



(





CP



t


o


d


a


y




−



CP



y


e


s


t


e


r


d


a


y






CP



y


e


s


t


e


r


d


a


y





)



∗



PVI



p


r


e


v


i


o


u


s


















where:

















PVI



p


r


e


v


i


o


u


s




=


The previous PVI

















CP



t


o


d


a


y




=


Today’s closing price

















CP



p


r


e


v


i


o


u


s




=


The previous closing price







\begin{aligned} &\text{PVI} = \text{PVI}_{previous} + \left(\frac{\text{CP}_{today}-\text{CP}_{yesterday}}{\text{CP}_{yesterday}}\right) * \text{PVI}_{previous} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{PVI}_{previous} = \text{The previous PVI}\\ &\text{CP}_{today} = \text{Today's closing price}\\ &\text{CP}_{previous} = \text{The previous closing price}\\ \end{aligned}


​PVI=PVIprevious​+(CPyesterday​CPtoday​−CPyesterday​​)∗PVIprevious​where:PVIprevious​=The previous PVICPtoday​=Today’s closing priceCPprevious​=The previous closing price​



If current volume is lower than the previous day's volume, PVI is unchanged.


  Negative Volume Index  

If the current volume is less than the previous day’s volume:


















NVI


=



NVI



p


r


e


v


i


o


u


s




+



(





CP



t


o


d


a


y




−



CP



y


e


s


t


e


r


d


a


y






CP



y


e


s


t


e


r


d


a


y





)



∗



NVI



p


r


e


v


i


o


u


s


















where:

















NVI



p


r


e


v


i


o


u


s




=


The previous NVI

















CP



t


o


d


a


y




=


Today’s closing price

















CP



p


r


e


v


i


o


u


s




=


The previous closing price







\begin{aligned} &\text{NVI} = \text{NVI}_{previous} + \left(\frac{\text{CP}_{today}-\text{CP}_{yesterday}}{\text{CP}_{yesterday}}\right) * \text{NVI}_{previous} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{NVI}_{previous} = \text{The previous NVI}\\ &\text{CP}_{today} = \text{Today's closing price}\\ &\text{CP}_{previous} = \text{The previous closing price}\\ \end{aligned}


​NVI=NVIprevious​+(CPyesterday​CPtoday​−CPyesterday​​)∗NVIprevious​where:NVIprevious​=The previous NVICPtoday​=Today’s closing priceCPprevious​=The previous closing price​



If the current volume is higher than the previous day's volume, NVI is unchanged. Many investors believe that noise trading is a significant factor in the Positive Volume Index. Therefore, the Negative Volume Index is often followed for its insight into professional traders' market activity.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Volume Discount?  

A volume discount is an economic incentive to encourage individuals or businesses to purchase goods in multiple units or in large quantities. The seller or manufacturer rewards those buying in bulk by providing a reduced price for each good or group of goods. Volume discounts allow businesses to purchase additional inventory at reduced cost and allow sellers or manufacturers to reduce inventories by selling more units to bulk buyers who are incentivized by the lower price.





Key Takeaways

A volume discount is a price reduction offered to buyers who purchase in bulk quantities.Producers or sellers are able to reduce inventories and take advantage of economies of scale by allowing discounts to bulk buyers.Several methods exist for arranging volume discounts, often utilizing a tiered discount structure.


   Understanding Volume Discounts  

Volume discounts allow buyers to purchase goods at a discounted rate. These savings are often passed on to consumers. For example, Walmart is able to purchase such large quantities of each particular good that it routinely receives volume discounts from its vendors. Walmart's customers, in turn, are able to purchase these goods for less money than if they went to a store that did not buy in such great volume.



In financial markets, some brokerage firms offer volume discounts on commissions charged depending on the level of investment or trading activity or for large block order trades.


   How Volume Discounts Work  

The discounts can take on a variety of structures. Volume discounts are often tiered—that is, a specific discount is applied to X number of units within that tier. The discount increases as for tiers that include larger and larger numbers of units. For instance, a discount could be applied to 50 to 100 units sold, with a greater discount for 101 to 200 units sold, and an even larger discount could apply to 201 to 300 units sold, and so on.



Another method of offering volume discounts is to apply a lower rate only when a certain threshold is reached. For example, the discount might go into effect after 100 units are purchased, and only apply to the units beyond that threshold. The buyer would still pay full price for the first 100 units they procured.



Yet another discount structure is to offer reduced prices on packages of units. A discount price could be offered for every 10 units sold, with the same rate applied equally. Another deeper discount rate might then be applied for every 25 units sold. In order to reap the benefits of the lower prices, the buyer must purchase units in the stated increments. In the previous example, if the buyer purchased 15 units, they would pay the lower rate only for 10 units and full price for the remaining five units. The same would be true if 27 units were purchased; two units would cost full price while 25 units get the lower rate. The volume discount would not apply to the entire order.
What Is Volume of Trade?  

Volume of trade is the total quantity of shares or contracts traded for a specified security. It can be measured on any type of security traded during a trading day.



Volume of trade or trade volume is measured on stocks, bonds, options contracts, futures contracts, and all types of commodities.





Key Takeaways

The volume of trade refers to the total number of shares or contracts exchanged between buyers and sellers of a security during trading hours on a given day.The volume of trade is a measure of the market's activity and liquidity during a set period of time.Higher trading volumes are considered more positive than lower trading volumes because they mean more liquidity and better order execution.


   Understanding Volume of Trade  

Volume of trade measures the total number of shares or contracts transacted for a specified security during a specified time period. It includes the total number of shares transacted between a buyer and seller during a transaction. When securities are more actively traded, their trade volume is high, and when securities are less actively traded, their trade volume is low.






Volume tends to be highest near the market open and close and the start of the week and last day of the week.


   How Volume of Trade Works  

Each market exchange tracks its trading volume and provides volume data. The volumes of trade numbers are reported as often as once an hour throughout the current trading day. These hourly reported trade volumes are estimates. A trade volume reported at the end of the day is also an estimate. Final actual figures are reported the following day.



Investors may also follow a security’s tick volume, or the number of changes in a contract's price, as a surrogate for trade volume, since prices tend to change more frequently with a higher volume of trade.



Volume tells investors about the market's activity and liquidity. Higher trade volumes for a specified security mean higher liquidity, better order execution, and a more active market for connecting a buyer and seller. When investors feel hesitant about the direction of the stock market, futures trading volume tends to increase, which often causes options and futures on specified securities to trade more actively. Volume overall tends to be higher near the market's opening and closing times, and on Mondays and Fridays. It tends to be lower at lunchtime and before a holiday.


   Special Considerations  

In recent times, high-frequency traders and index funds have become a major contributor to trading volume statistics in U.S. markets. According to a 2017 JPMorgan study, passive investors like ETFs and quantitative investment accounts, which utilize high-frequency algorithmic trading, were responsible for 60% of overall trading volumes while "fundamental discretionary traders" (or traders who evaluate the fundamental factors affecting a stock before making an investment) comprised only 10% of the overall figures.


   Traders and Volume of Trade  

Traders use various trading factors in technical analysis. Trade volume is one of the simplest technical factors analyzed by traders when considering market trades. The trade volume during a large price increase or decrease is often important for traders as high volumes with price changes can indicate specific trading catalysts. High volumes associated with directional changes in price can also help to reinforce support for the value of a security.



Volume levels can also help traders decide on specified times for a transaction. Traders follow the average daily trading volume of a security over short-term and longer-term periods when making decisions on trade timing. Traders can also use several technical analysis indicators that incorporate volume. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulates the sale of securities by traders. According to Rule 144, sellers cannot make security sales exceeding 1% of outstanding shares of the same class being sold.


   Example of Volume of Trade  

Suppose a market consists of two traders, trader 1 and trader 2. The first trader buys 500 shares of stock ABC and sells 250 shares of XYZ. The other trader sells those 500 shares and buys the 250 shares of stock XYZ to the first trader. The total volume of trade in the market is 750 (500 shares of ABC + 250 XYZ shares). This is because we do not double-count the volume—when trader 1 buys 500 ABC shares from trader 2, only 500 shares are counted. Likewise, only 250 shares of XYZ would be recorded on the volume tally.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Volume Price Trend Indicator (VPT)?  

The volume price trend (VPT) indicator helps determine a security’s price direction and strength of price change. The indicator consists of a cumulative volume line that adds or subtracts a multiple of the percentage change in a share price’s trend and current volume, depending upon the security’s upward or downward movements.


   Example of the Volume Price Trend Indicator  










   Understanding the Volume Price Trend Indicator (VPT)  

The volume price trend indicator is used to determine the balance between a security’s demand and supply. The percentage change in the share price trend shows the relative supply or demand of a particular security, while volume indicates the force behind the trend. The VPT indicator is similar to the on-balance volume (OBV) indicator in that it measures cumulative volume and provides traders with information about a security’s money flow. Most charting software packages have the VPT indicator included.


   Trading With the Volume Price Trend Indicator  

Signal Line Crossovers: A signal line, which is just a moving average of the indicator, can be applied and used to generate trading signals. For example, a trader may buy a stock when the VPT line crosses above its signal line and sell when the VPT line passes below its signal line.



Confirmations: The VPT indicator can be used in conjunction with moving averages and the average directional index (ADX) to confirm trending markets. For instance, a trader could buy a stock if the 20-day moving average is above the 50-day moving average and accompanied by rising VPT indicator values. Conversely, the trader may decide to sell if the 20-day moving average is below the 50-day moving average and the indicator’s values are falling.



The ADX also measures trend and momentum and can be used with the VPT indicator to confirm that a market is trending. ADX readings above 25 indicate that a security is trending, while readings below 25 indicate sideways price action. Therefore, a trader could buy when the ADX is above 25 and the VPT line is above its signal line. They could sell when the ADX has a value below 25 and the VPT line is below its signal line.



Divergence: Traders can use the VPT indicator to spot technical divergence. Divergence occurs when the indicator makes a higher high or a lower low, but the security’s price makes a lower high or a higher low. Traders should place a stop-loss order above the most recent swing high or below the most recent swing low to minimize risk.
What Is the Volume-Weighted Average Price (VWAP)?  

The volume-weighted average price (VWAP) is a technical analysis indicator used on intraday charts that resets at the start of every new trading session.



It's a trading benchmark that represents the average price a security has traded at throughout the day, based on both volume and price.



VWAP is important because it provides traders with pricing insight into both the trend and value of a security.





Key Takeaways

The volume-weighted average price (VWAP) appears as a single line on intraday charts.It looks similar to a moving average line, but smoother.VWAP represents a view of price action throughout a single day's trading session.Retail and professional traders may use the VWAP to help them determine intraday price trends.VWAP typically is most useful to short-term traders.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding the Volume-Weighted Average Price (VWAP)  

VWAP is calculated by totaling the dollars traded for every transaction (price multiplied by the volume) and then dividing by the total shares traded.



VWAP = Cumulative Typical Price x Volume/Cumulative Volume



Where Typical Price = High price + Low price + Closing Price/3



Cumulative = total since the trading session opened.


  How to Calculate VWAP  

By adding the VWAP indicator to a streaming chart, the calculation will be made automatically. However, to calculate the VWAP yourself, follow the steps below.



Assume a five-minute chart. The calculation is the same regardless of what intraday time frame is used.



Find the average price the stock traded at over the first five-minute period of the day. To do this, add the high, low, and close, then divide by three. Multiply this by the volume for that period. Record the result in a spreadsheet, under column PV.
Divide PV by the volume for that period. This will produce the VWAP.
To maintain the VWAP throughout the day, continue to add the PV value from each period to the prior values. Divide this total by total volume up to that point.



To make Step 3 easier in a spreadsheet, create columns for cumulative PV and cumulative volume and apply the formula to them.















TradingView.


   How Is VWAP Used?  

VWAP is used in different ways by traders. Traders may use VWAP as a trend confirmation tool and build trading rules around it. For instance, they may consider stocks with prices below VWAP as undervalued and those with prices above it, overvalued. If prices below VWAP move above it, traders may go long on the stock. If prices above VWAP move below it, they may sell their positions or initiate short positions.



Institutional buyers including mutual funds use VWAP to help move into or out of stocks with as small of a market impact as possible. Therefore, when they can, institutions will try to buy below the VWAP, or sell above it. This way their actions push the price back toward the average, instead of away from it.





VWAP Tip

VWAP's incorporation of volume is valuable to traders for what it can indicate about the degree of trading activity during short periods of time—whether the competition is taking or exiting positions.






   The Difference Between VWAP and a Simple Moving Average  

On a chart, VWAP and a simple moving average (SMA) may look similar. However, these two indicators are calculated differently and represent different results.



VWAP is calculated by multiplying typical price by volume, and the dividing by total volume.



A simple moving average incorporates price but not volume. The SMA is calculated by totaling closing prices over a certain period (say 10 days) and then dividing the total by the number of periods (10).


   Limitations of VWAP  

VWAP is a single-day indicator and restarts at the open of each new trading day. Attempting to create an average VWAP over many days could distort it and result in an incorrect indicator.



While some institutions may prefer to buy when the price of a security is below the VWAP, or sell when it is above, VWAP is not the only factor to consider. In strong uptrends, the price may continue to move higher for many days without dropping below the VWAP at all or only occasionally. Therefore, waiting for the price to fall below VWAP could mean a missed opportunity if prices are rising quickly.



VWAP is based on historical values and does not inherently have predictive qualities or calculations. VWAP is anchored to the opening price range of the day. Therefore, the indicator increases its lag as the day goes on.



This can be seen in the way a one-minute period VWAP calculation after 330 minutes (the length of a typical trading session) will often resemble a 390-minute moving average at the end of the trading day.




What Is the Volume-Weighted Average Price (VWAP)?
The volume-weighted average price (VWAP) is a measurement that shows the average price of a security, adjusted for its volume. It is calculated during a specific trading session by taking the total dollar value of trading in the security and dividing it by the volume of trades. The formula for calculating VWAP is cumulative typical price x volume divided by cumulative volume.




Why Is the Volume-Weighted Average Price Important?
VWAP gives traders a smoothed-out indication of a security’s price (adjusted for volume) over time. It is used by institutional traders to ensure that their trades do not move the price of the security they are trying to buy or sell too extremely.For example, a hedge fund might refrain from submitting a buy order for a price above the security’s VWAP, in order to avoid artificially inflating the price of that security. Likewise, it might avoid submitting orders too far below the VWAP, so that the price is not dragged down by its sale.




What Is the Difference Between the Volume-Weighted Average Price and a Simple Moving Average (SMA)?
Like the VWAP, the simple moving average provides traders with a less volatile view of the recent price trend of a security. Unlike the VWAP, however, the simple moving average does not take into account the level of volume in that security’s trading.VWAP weights each day’s price change by the amount of volume occurring in that day, whereas the simple moving average incorporates price and no volume.


   The Bottom Line  

The Volume Weighted Price Index is a technical analysis indicator used by traders to determine that the average price of a security is based on both price and volume.
What Is Volumetric Production Payment?  

A Volumetric Production Payment (VPP) is a type of structured investment that involves the owner of an oil or gas interest selling or borrowing money against a specific volume of production associated with that field or property. The investor or lender receives a stated monthly quota – often in raw output, which is then marketed by the VPP buyer – or, a specified percentage of the monthly production achieved at the given property.



Buyers could include investment banks, hedge funds, energy companies, and insurance companies.





Key Takeaways

Volumetric production payments (VPPs) are a way to convert a portion of oil or gas production into a cash flow stream for investors.The investors, or buyers of a VPP, will tend to be financial institutions or else energy companies who are guaranteeing future delivery of oil or gas.The sellers in a VPP are oilfield companies or drillers that are able to monetize their capital investment while retaining ownership of their property.


   Understanding Volumetric Production Payment  

A VPP structure is sometimes constructed as part of a pre-export financing (PFX) package. PFX takes place when a financial institution advances funds to a borrower based on proven volume of orders from buyers. The borrower, in this case, the oil producer, usually requires the funding in order to produce and supply the oil and gas. The VPP is then used to repay the borrowing under the PFX arrangement. The credit quality of PFX tends to be better than other lending because the cash flow generated from the VPP is used to repay the PFX ahead of other creditors.



The VPP buyer does not have to contribute any time or capital to the actual production of the end product. However, many investors in these types of interests will hedge their expected receivables (the volumes laid out in the contract) via the derivatives market to protect against commodity risk or otherwise lock in the expected profits.



A VPP deal allows the seller to retain full ownership of the property while monetizing some of their capital investment. This ability to "cash out" some of the value of an oil field, for example, allows the producer to invest in capital upgrades or repurchase shares. In the case where the owner of an oil and gas interest sells a specific volume production, instead of borrowing against it, this money can be used to repay other debt.


   VPP Deal Details  

A VPP deal is typically set to expire after a certain length of time or after a specified aggregate total volume of the commodity has been delivered. A VPP interest is considered a non-operating asset, akin to a royalty-payment or loan repayment system. Under the royalty-payment structure, if the producer can't meet the supply quota for a given month (or whatever schedule is used), the unmet portion will be made up for in the next cycle, and so on until the buyer is made financially whole. Under the loan repayment structure, failure to make a payment would be considered default.
What Is Voluntary Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance (VAD&D)?  

Voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance (VAD&D) is a financial protection plan that provides a beneficiary with cash in the event that the policyholder is accidentally killed or loses a specific body part. VAD&D is a limited form of life insurance and is generally less expensive than a full life insurance policy.





Key Takeaways

Voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance is similar to a life insurance policy.Voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance (VAD&D) does not cover all death or injury-related circumstances.Some VAD&D insurance benefits only provide coverage up to 10 times an employee's salary.VAD&D insurance is not an alternative to life insurance, but it is sometimes attractive to younger workers who do not have the income to support a full life insurance policy.VAD&D insurance is often offered as part of an employment package, and can also be purchased as a rider to an ordinary life insurance policy.


   Understanding Voluntary Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance (VAD&D)  

Voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance (VAD&D) is an optional benefit offered by some employers. Premiums are based on the amount of coverage purchased, and this type of insurance can make sense for workers in occupations that place them at high risk of physical injury. Most policies are renewed periodically with revised terms, although the client's consent with renewal is often implicitly assumed.



How much the policy will pay in the event of a claim depends not only on the amount of coverage purchased but on the type of claim filed. For example, the life insurance policy might pay 100 percent if the policyholder is killed or becomes quadriplegic, but it might only pay 50 percent for the loss of a hand or the permanent loss of sight in one eye.


   Types of AD&D and Exemptions  

There are four common types of group AD&D plans offered:



Group Life Supplement, which is included as part of a group life insurance contract and the benefit is typically the same as the group life benefit
Voluntary AD&D, which is offered to members of a group as separate, elective benefits, and premiums are paid as part of payroll deductions
Travel accident, which is provided through an employee benefit plan and provides supplemental accident protection to workers while they are traveling on company business
Dependents, which provides coverage for dependents of employees



Certain death circumstances are excluded from many AD&D policies, including death by illness, suicide, non-commercial radiation, and natural causes.






Death, while under the influence of any non-prescribed drugs or alcohol, is also most likely exempt from coverage.



Overdose with toxic or poisonous substances and injury of an athlete during a professional sporting event may also void the right to a claim. Some insurance carriers are willing to alter their clients' coverage to include some of these risks, but every such extension will typically result in higher premiums for the client.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of VAD&D Insurance  

The low costs of AD&D insurance could make an attractive addition to conventional life insurance, and many employers offer discounted policies. However, those low premiums also mean low payouts. While it may provide peace of mind, AD&D is no replacement for regular life insurance.



In addition, the terms for claiming AD&D benefits are typically much more restrictive than life insurance coverage. Many policies will not pay out for deaths resulting from illnesses, infection, suicide, scuba diving, or other risky accidents, and you'll have to read the fine print to know when you're covered. The process of claiming an AD&D benefit can be lengthy, and the deceased may undergo an autopsy before benefits are paid out by the insurance company.



In addition, the terms of death are often officially investigated before an insurer approves a claim.





Advantages of VAD&D Coverage

Cheaper than life insurance, with premiums as low as $60 per year
Covers non-fatal injuries, such as blindness, deafness, and lost limbs
May be available at a lower cost through your employer
No medical requirements



Disadvantages of VAD&D Coverage

Does not cover suicide, self-inflicted injuries, overdoses, or injuries due to certain risky behaviors
Offers comparatively lower payouts than life insurance
May require extensive paperwork and investigation before receiving a payout





   Examples of VAD&D Insurance  

Accidental death insurance varies widely by policy and jurisdiction. Some plans will also offer more complex benefits, depending on the nature of the insured's death, or partial benefits in the case of disabling injuries. For example, a death in an auto accident may be eligible for a higher payout. Here are some sample policies for a 21-year-old nonsmoking male in Pennsylvania.



Mutual of Omaha offers an Accidental Death policy of $250,000, for a monthly payment of $5.85. Farmers Insurance has a similar policy with a payout of $200,000, for a monthly payment of $10. This payout is increased to as much as $1,000,000 in the event of a death in a common carrier accident. However, Farmers Insurance is available in fewer jurisdictions.


   Voluntary Accidental Death and Dismemberment FAQs  
  Can You Collect Both VAD&D and Life Insurance Benefits?  

Yes. In the event of an accidental death that meets the terms of your VAD&D policy, the beneficiaries can collect payouts from both the deceased's life insurance policy and their VAD&D policy.


  Do I Need Both Life Insurance and VAD&D?  

Voluntary Accidental Death & Dismemberment is considered supplemental to ordinary life insurance. Since there are many ways to die that aren't covered by VAD&D, it's more important to have a life insurance policy.


  Does VAD&D Insurance Cover Homicide?  

In most cases, the victim of homicide would be covered by Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance, unless the death resulted from poisoning, drug overdose, or criminal activity by the deceased. It is important to read the fine print of your policy to know which activities may be excluded.


   The Bottom Line  

Voluntary Accidental Death and Dismemberment (VAD&D) is an affordable, limited form of life insurance that provides a cash benefit in the event of a fatal or disabling accident. Due to the low premiums, VAD&D is sometimes attractive to younger people who may not have the income to support a full life insurance policy. However, VAD&D only pays out in very specific circumstances. While it may be worth getting if your employer provides it, VAD&D is no substitute for a full life insurance policy.
What Is a Voluntary Accumulation Plan?  

A voluntary accumulation plan offers a mutual fund investor a way to accumulate a large number of shares over time by investing a manageable fixed-dollar amount on a regular schedule, usually monthly. The small investor gets the opportunity to take advantage of the dollar-cost averaging strategy.



Many mutual funds offer their customers the ability to do this.


   Understanding the Voluntary Accumulation Plan  

A voluntary accumulation plan, as the name suggests, is executed at the discretion of the investor. The company that offers the mutual fund may set a minimum dollar amount for these additional regular purchases.





Key Takeaways

A voluntary accumulation plan allows an investor to set up an automatic monthly share purchase.That puts the dollar-cost averaging strategy to work for the individual investor.Over time, the investor should be able to acquire a larger stake in the fund at a reasonable price per share.



It works like an automatic savings program. The investor approves a regular monthly payment into the fund, which is automatically used to purchase additional shares of the fund.



The investor gets the ease of automatic savings and the benefits of dollar-cost averaging. This investing strategy requires regular purchases of the same stock or fund month after month no matter what its price is at that time.


  How Dollar-Cost Averaging Works  

Using dollar-cost averaging, investors get more shares of the mutual fund when the price is low and fewer shares when the price is high. Over time, shares purchased at the “right time” tend to outnumber shares purchased at the “wrong time.” The investor should end up with a substantial number of shares at a reasonable price.






If you have a lot of cash on hand, invest it all at once. If not, a voluntary accumulation plan is a good option.



A voluntary accumulation plan is particularly appropriate for investors who want to build a solid portfolio but have little spare cash on hand. They can take time to build their stake.


  Limitations of a Voluntary Accumulation Plan  

Using a voluntary accumulation plan to mitigate the effects of a volatile market through dollar-cost averaging has a lot of appeals but it’s not the best decision for all investors.



An investor who has a large sum of cash on hand to invest in a mutual fund may be better off investing it all at once.


  The Problem With Cash  

This is primarily because cash is better off being invested than sitting around losing value due to inflation.



Some investors even avoid buying into mutual funds that hold too much cash. It can create a drag on returns, particularly during a rising market.



The investor who puts a lump sum into a mutual fund rather than spreading it out through a voluntary accumulation plan runs the risk of buying just before a dramatic market correction. But it’s usually a better strategy, statistically speaking.



Voluntary accumulation plans are a convenient and powerful tool for investors who want to build a position paycheck by paycheck. They should not be used as a reason to sit on cash.
What Is Voluntary Bankruptcy?  

Voluntary bankruptcy is a type of bankruptcy where an insolvent debtor brings the petition to a court to declare bankruptcy because they are unable to pay off their debts. Both individuals and businesses are able to use this approach.



A simple definition of voluntary bankruptcy is simply when a debtor chooses to go to court over bankruptcy versus being forced to do so. A voluntary bankruptcy is intended to create an orderly and equitable settlement of the debtor's obligations.





Key Takeaways

Voluntary bankruptcy is a bankruptcy proceeding that a debtor initiates because they cannot satisfy the debt.This type of bankruptcy is different than an involuntary bankruptcy, which is a process originating from creditors.Involuntary and technical are two other forms of bankruptcy.During involuntary bankruptcy, a creditor can force a debtor into court in order to get paid. Voluntary bankruptcy is more common than other forms of bankruptcy. 


   How Voluntary Bankruptcy Works  

Voluntary bankruptcy is a bankruptcy proceeding that a debtor, who knows that they cannot satisfy the debt requirements of its creditors, initiates with a court.



Voluntary bankruptcy typically commences when and if a debtor finds no other solution to their dire financial situation. Filing for voluntary bankruptcy differs from filing for involuntary bankruptcy, which occurs when one or more creditors petitions a court to judge the debtor as insolvent (unable to pay).


   Voluntary Bankruptcy and Other Forms of Bankruptcy  

In addition to voluntary bankruptcy, other forms of bankruptcy exist, including involuntary bankruptcy, and technical bankruptcy.






Bankruptcy filings vary among states, which can lead to higher or lower filing fees, depending on the location of the filing.



Creditors request involuntary bankruptcy of debtors when they will not be paid without bankruptcy proceedings and need a legal requirement in order to force the debtor to pay. A debtor must have attained a certain level of debt for a creditor to request an involuntary bankruptcy. This level will vary, depending on if the debtor is an individual or corporation.



In a technical bankruptcy, an individual or company has defaulted on their financial obligations, yet this has not been declared in court.


   Voluntary Bankruptcy and Corporations  

When a corporation goes bankrupt, either voluntarily or involuntarily, there is a specific series of events that occur for all stakeholders to receive due payments. This begins with distributing assets to secured creditors, who have collateral on loan to the business.



If they cannot fetch a market price for the collateral (which has likely depreciated over time), secured creditors can recoup some of the balance from the company’s remaining liquid assets.



Secured creditors are followed by unsecured creditors—those who have loaned funds to the company (i.e., bondholders, employees who are owed unpaid wages, and the government, if taxes are owed). Preferred and common shareholders, in that order, receive any outstanding assets, if any remain.



Various types of bankruptcy that a corporation can declare include Chapter 7 bankruptcy, which involves liquidation of assets; Chapter 11, which deals with corporate reorganizations; and Chapter 13, which is debt repayment with lowered debt covenants or payment terms.﻿﻿﻿



Of all the types of bankruptcy, voluntary bankruptcy is the most common.
What Is Voluntary Compliance?  

Voluntary compliance refers to the principle that citizens will cooperate with their government by filing honest and accurate annual returns. The U.S. income tax system operates under this assumption, though not without checks and balances.



Voluntary, in this case, implies that the individual taxpayer will prepare and file a return without proactive action by the government.﻿﻿


   Understanding Voluntary Compliance  

Payment of income taxes is, of course, mandatory. But the burden of reporting income falls upon each individual taxpayer.﻿﻿



That is the meaning of voluntary compliance. The government expects that U.S. taxpayers will e forthcoming in calculating and reporting their incomes and will remit any unpaid amount to the government by the tax deadline each year.





Key Takeaways

The U.S. government discovered early on that auditing every individual tax return is impossible.Therefore, it must assume that taxpayers will voluntarily comply to the best of their abilities.Checks and balances like W-2 forms are in place to discourage non-compliance.



Of course, the government doesn't generally take the taxpayer's word for it. For example, a taxpayer who receives a W-2 form from an employer reports the income on Form 1040. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) receives a copy of that W-2 and is thus aware of that income.﻿﻿



The individual may also have a part-time job that does not involve a W-2 filing or similar statement of earnings or other income. Under the principle of voluntary compliance, the taxpayer is expected to report that additional income in the annual return.



A second and less optimistic assumption of the U.S. tax system is that some portion of the taxpaying public will not fully comply with tax requirements. This may occur by intentional evasion or through an innocent misunderstanding. The IRS is responsible for enforcing compliance and does so through a system of audits.﻿﻿


   Audits and Voluntary Compliance  

In the early days following the 1913 establishment of a federal income tax, U.S. law required that every tax return be audited by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue’s office.



This soon proved to be an impossible task even as the commissioner’s staff grew. A 1954 law removed the requirement and audits been undertaken on about one percent of returns ever since.﻿﻿



The government’s implicit acceptance that it does not have the resources for comprehensive auditing, and never did, helps define voluntary compliance. Compliance is voluntary because total enforcement is impossible. The voluntary nature of compliance does not mean paying taxes is a voluntary action.﻿﻿



Audits are most commonly triggered by a mismatch in the information reported on a tax return and on the related official forms such as the W-2 or 1099. Other red flags include earnings that are out of line with past years or financial transactions with individuals who are under audit.



Audits can be conducted via mail or in person.﻿﻿ The unofficial thresholds for charges of tax fraud are $70,000 in unpaid taxes and three years of deliberate fraud. These guidelines are set to minimize the prosecution risk for taxpayers whose non-compliance is truly an honest oversight.
What Is Voluntary Conveyance?  

Voluntary conveyance refers to an elective transfer of title from one individual to another without adequate consideration. Consideration refers to compensation which is expected in return for the property. Without it, the conveyor should be prepared to offer a legal explanation for the transfer.


   Understanding Voluntary Conveyance  

Voluntary conveyance, like any sale of real estate, is a form of voluntary property transfer. Voluntary conveyance is distinguished, however, by the lack of adequate consideration given to the seller. Consideration is a legal term that refers to the compensation given in exchange for the property in question. Following are some common scenarios for voluntary conveyance.


   Voluntary Conveyance to Avoid Default  

Some delinquent borrowers will voluntarily convey the property to the lender in order to avoid default and the effects it has on the borrower’s credit history. The lender can accept conveyance of title, then sell the property. The lender may then have the right to file an insurance claim to recover any remaining deficiency, depending on local laws. In making such a conveyance, the borrower avoids the stigma of default.


   Fraudulent Voluntary Conveyance to Avoid Creditors  

In most states, it is illegal to transfer property to a third party in order to avoid creditors’ claims on that property. This is known as a fraudulent conveyance, and creditors can pursue their claim on the property via civil legal action. Penalties depend on whether the court rules that the fraud is actual, that is intentional, or constructive, which describes a de facto fraudulent transaction.


   Voluntary Conveyance for Charitable Purposes  

Donors wishing to convey real property to a charitable organization must carefully manage the issue of consideration to ensure the desired tax deduction. The receiving organization must have an IRS tax exemption in good standing, and the transaction should be properly vetted by independent appraisers and tax attorneys. With these safeguards in place, consideration comes in the form of a tax deduction.﻿﻿


   Voluntary Conveyance to Descendants  

A property owner can convey real estate to a descendent as a gift or via a last will and testament. Many states allow for a gift deed to change hands, listing a nominal consideration which could be a small monetary amount or simply love and affection. Such a gift can be considered suspicious when creditors seek possession of the property to fulfill claims on the property.



Involuntary conveyance is the transfer of real property without the owner’s consent. This can take place in cases of condemnation due to neglect or natural disaster, failure to pay taxes, or the death of a property owner with no direct heirs. In such cases, the state will take custody of the property.
What Is a Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association?  

Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Association (VEBA) is a type of mutual organization that provides life, illness, accident, medical, and similar benefits to members, their dependents, or their beneficiaries.


   Understanding VEBA  

A Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association (VEBA) can be established by employees or by an employer and must consist of employees of the same company or the same labor union. VEBA benefits normally end when the employee leaves the company or labor union with which the VEBA is associated.



Either employees or their employer can contribute funds to a VEBA. Employer contributions are often tax-deductible to the employer. VEBAs themselves are authorized by Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)(9) as tax-exempt organizations as long as their earnings are only used for providing benefits. However, benefits paid out to employees are not necessarily tax-exempt to the employee. An employer making contributions to a VEBA would ordinarily receive a deduction under Internal Revenue Code 162 for amounts contributed. The employer could also receive a deduction if the benefits were paid directly to the employee by the employer as part of a fringe benefit package.﻿﻿



For example, the United Auto Workers formed VEBAs for their workers at the Big Three automobile manufacturers in 2007 and therefore relieved the companies from carrying liability for their health plans on their accounting books.﻿﻿


   Conditions of a VEBA  

A VEBA must meet several requirements, including that it be a voluntary association of employees for the purpose of providing benefits. A VEBA’s earnings cannot benefit any private individual, organization, or shareholder other than through the payment of benefits. The association must also be controlled by its members in whole or part by their trustees or an independent trustee, and a VEBA can not discriminate in the payment of its benefits unless it was established as part of a collective bargaining agreement. Health benefits may be paid out of the employer’s general assets, from a trust created by the employer, or by a combination of these funding mechanisms.﻿﻿



Any group of employees sharing an employment-related common bond may establish a VEBA. This common bond could be the same employer, or the same collective bargaining agreement or union. If multiple employers share the same line of business and the same geographic area, they are considered to share the "common bond" specified by the law. There are, generally, no limitations on either the size of the VEBA or the number of benefits that may be provided, only upon the type of benefits and the persons to whom benefits may be provided.﻿﻿
What Is a Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Association Plan (VEBA)?  

A voluntary employees’ beneficiary association (VEBA) plan is a tax-exempt trust set up by employers or a group of employees to cover the eligible medical expenses of its members, their dependents, or designated beneficiaries. These plans are typically funded by the employer and governed under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(9).



Employee contributions may or may not be mandatory depending on the company plan, although individual elections are not permitted. However, employees must be covered by an employer-sponsored health plan to be eligible for VEBA membership. Additionally, the company must observe rules established by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for creating and maintaining a VEBA.





Key Takeaways

A voluntary employees’ beneficiary association (VEBA) plan is a tax-exempt trust typically funded by an employer to help employees pay for eligible medical expenses. This type of employee benefit program has waned in popularity over the years, though some employers still offer them.VEBA rules state that employers must first obtain a letter of determination from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for their plan to be considered a VEBA for federal income tax purposes.VEBAs are subject to some aspects of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA); however, they are not considered to be qualified retirement plans.


   How Does a VEBA Plan Work?  

VEBAs allow employers to provide benefits to employees on the condition that they abide by the following requirements:



Be a voluntary association of employeesProvide for payment of life, sick, accident, or other similar benefits to members or their dependents or designated beneficiariesEarnings must be used solely for the administration and payment of participant benefits and not line the pockets of private individuals or shareholders.



VEBAs can cover a wide range of benefits. Eligible medical expenses are determined by the IRS and each plan can vary in what it covers from this list and when payouts are made.



VEBAs are subject to some aspects of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA); however, they are not considered to be qualified retirement plans. As mentioned above, beneficiaries must be employees, their dependents, or their designated beneficiaries. And VEBA benefits normally end when the employee leaves the company or labor union with which the VEBA is associated.






Not every VEBA plan is the same. Some may be available for current eligible expenses. Others, meanwhile, may only reimburse vision and dental costs or just cover medical costs incurred after you leave the job or retire.


   Taxation of VEBA Plans  

VEBA rules state that employers must first obtain a letter of determination from the IRS for their plan to be considered a VEBA for federal income tax purposes. These plans are considered to be welfare benefit plans under federal tax law and are tax-exempt under Section 501(c)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code.



Employer contributions made to a VEBA plan are tax deductible and have no limit. However, benefits paid out to employees may, or may not, be taxable, depending on the type of benefit.






Unlike in 401(k) or 403(b) plans, for example, participant withdrawals from a VEBA are not taxable if made before age 59½. Withdrawals from a VEBA are not required to begin at 72 years of age.


   Cashing Out of a VEBA  

Funds in a VEBA grow tax free, and there are no tax penalties levied upon employees or VEBA members who take distributions from a VEBA for qualified medical expenses, which often include co-pays, co-insurance, and deductibles, as well as dental and vision payments. These expenses are defined in Section 213(d) of the Internal Revenue Code. Members can also use VEBA plans to fund post-retirement health insurance premiums.



Even though these accounts are usually used as savings vehicles to fund healthcare expenses in retirement, employees can use money from their VEBAs to pay for qualified medical expenses while working. If account holders don’t use money in their VEBA plans for a given year, then that amount rolls over to the next year’s balance. That means a VEBA is not a use-it-or-lose-it plan, unlike a Flexible Spending Account (FSA).






A VEBA is not a use-it-or-lose-it plan: if account holders don’t use money in their plans for a given year, then that amount rolls over to the next year’s balance.


   Types of VEBA Plans  

A VEBA can also act as a type of health reimbursement arrangement (HRA).



A post-deductible VEBA, for example, is designed to reimburse vision and dental expenses until a member meets their health plan deductible. After the deductible is met, members can be reimbursed for non-health plan-related medical expenses.



A limited VEBA, however, can reimburse only medical and vision expenses. Meanwhile, money in a post-employment VEBA can be used only after an individual has retired or left employment with the VEBA’s sponsor.



When a VEBA plan is paired with a Health Savings Account (HSA), VEBA dollars will be limited toward eligible dental and vision expenses until individuals meet their medical health plan deductibles.




Who Is Eligible for a VEBA?
To be eligible for a VEBA plan, your employer must offer one. Also, you must be an active employee and be covered by your employer’s health insurance plan.




Is a VEBA an HRA?
Health reimbursement arrangements (HRAs) allow employers to reimburse employees for certain medical expenses. Employees can roll over contributions year to year while investing contributions for growth. Under that definition, a VEBA can be considered a type of HRA.




What Is the Difference Between a VEBA and an HSA?
Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) allow you to save for qualified medical expenses on a tax-advantaged basis. These accounts are associated with high-deductible health plans. The main difference between a VEBA and an HSA is how they’re funded. VEBAs are funded only by the employer in most cases, while HSAs can be funded with employer and employee contributions.




Can I have a VEBA and an HSA?
Yes, depending on the options offered by your employer, it is possible to have both a VEBA and an HSA. If you have both, it’s important to understand the rules for contributions, withdrawals, and taxation to ensure that you’re making the most of these benefits.


   The Bottom Line  

A VEBA plan is a trust fund governed under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(9) that helps employees cover the cost of certain medical expenses, insurance premiums, health insurance deductibles, and so on. These plans can be very advantageous, offering tax benefits and security for workers, and, despite waning in popularity, there are companies out there that continue to offer them.
What Is a Voluntary Export Restraint (VER)?  

A voluntary export restraint (VER) is a trade restriction on the quantity of a good that an exporting country is allowed to export to another country. This limit is self-imposed by the exporting country.



VERs came about in the 1930s and gained a lot of popularity in the 1980s when Japan used one to limit auto exports to the U.S. In 1994, World Trade Organization (WTO) members agreed not to implement any new VERs and to phase out existing ones.





Key Takeaways

A voluntary export restraint (VER) is a self-imposed limit on the quantity of a good that an exporting country is allowed to export.VERs are considered non-tariff barriers, which are restrictive trade barriers—such as quotas and embargoes.They are related to a voluntary import expansion (VIE), which is meant to allow for more imports, and can include lowering tariffs or dropping quotas. 


   How a Voluntary Export Restraint (VER) Works  

Voluntary export restraints (VERs) fall under the broad category of non-tariff barriers, which are restrictive trade barriers, such as quotas, sanctions, levies, embargoes, and other restrictions. Typically, VERs are a result of requests made by the importing country to provide a measure of protection for its domestic businesses that produce competing goods, though these agreements can be reached at the industry level, as well.



VERs are often created because the exporting countries would prefer to impose their own restrictions than risk sustaining worse terms from tariffs or quotas. They've been in use since the 1930s, applied by large, developed economies to a wide range of products, from textiles to footwear, steel, and automobiles, and became a popular form of protectionism in the 1980s.



After the Uruguay Round and the updating of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in 1994, WTO members agreed not to implement any new VERs, and to phase out any existing ones within one year, with some exceptions.


   Limitations of a Voluntary Export Restraint (VER)  

There are ways in which a company can avoid a VER. For example, the exporting country's company can always build a manufacturing plant in the country to which exports would be directed. By doing so, the company will no longer need to export goods, and should not be bound by the country's VER.






The option to build manufacturing facilities overseas and bypass exporting rules is one of the main reasons why VERs have historically been ineffective in protecting domestic producers.


   Voluntary Export Restraint (VER) vs. Voluntary Import Expansion (VIE)  

Related to voluntary export restraint (VER) is a voluntary import expansion (VIE), which is a change in a country's economic and trade policy to allow for more imports by lowering tariffs or dropping quotas. Often VIEs are part of trade agreements with another country or the result of international pressure.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Voluntary Export Restraint (VER)  

With functioning VERs, producers in the importing country experience an increase in well-being as there is decreased competition, which should result in higher prices, profits, and employment.



These benefits to producers and the labor market, however, come with some notable caveats. VERs reduce national welfare by creating negative trade effects, negative consumption distortions, and negative production distortions.


   Example of a Voluntary Export Restraint (VER)  

The most notable example is when Japan imposed a VER on its auto exports into the U.S. as a result of American pressure in the 1980s. The VER subsequently gave the U.S. auto industry some protection against a flood of foreign competition.



This relief was short-lived though, as it ultimately resulted in a rise in exports of higher-priced Japanese vehicles and a proliferation of Japanese assembly plants in North America.
What Is Voluntary Foreclosure?  

A voluntary foreclosure is a foreclosure proceeding that is initiated by a borrower who is unable to continue making loan payments on a property, in an attempt to avoid further payments and prevent involuntary foreclosure and eviction. Borrowers may choose this option if their mortgage is significantly underwater.



This is different from an involuntary foreclosure, which is initiated by the lending institution in order to take possession of a property to recover the lender's losses and is typically the last option for borrowers unable to make payments on their loans. Borrowers can seek a voluntary foreclosure from a bank or other lending institution for both residential and commercial properties.



There are several similar terms that can be used for voluntary foreclosures, including strategic default, walking away, jingle mail, and friendly foreclosure.





Key Takeaways

A voluntary foreclosure is initiated by a borrower who can no longer make loan payments on a property and seeks to avoid foreclosure by the lender.Voluntary foreclosure can be harmful to a borrower’s credit ratings.It is usually not as financially damaging as an involuntary foreclosure.The subprime mortgage crisis of the late 2000s, when many mortgages were underwater, led to a significant rise in the number of voluntary foreclosures.Sometimes debtors will plan to initiate a voluntary foreclosure by taking out more debt. 


   Understanding Voluntary Foreclosures  

Voluntary foreclosure is extremely harmful to a borrower’s credit ratings and can make it difficult to rent or buy a home and get loans approved for years afterward, but it is not as financially damaging as an involuntary foreclosure. It can thus be a cost-effective option for some borrowers who, rather than struggling to make payments each month, conclude that they are unable to continue making payments.



Many debtors plan for a voluntary foreclosure by opening new credit cards and taking out new car loans and mortgages before their credit rating drops. Lenders will often agree to a borrower’s request for voluntary foreclosure because it can make the process of retaking property and collecting debts much faster and more cost-effective than an involuntary foreclosure.



Reasons for voluntary foreclosure include a sudden and unexpected job loss, the realization that one is living beyond one's means, and changes in the housing market along with variable interest rates (if a borrower has an adjustable-rate mortgage, or ARM, for instance).



A deed in lieu of foreclosure is one of the most commonly used types of voluntary foreclosure. The rules, laws, and penalties for voluntary foreclosures vary widely by lending institution and state.


   Pros and Cons of Voluntary Foreclosures  

If you are considering initiating a voluntary foreclosure, it's important to carefully consider the advantages and disadvantages of taking such a step. You need to balance it against the effect on your credit, the loss of your home, how much financial relief it offers you, and any alternatives you may still have. If you are unable to get a loan modification or do a short sale, for example, a deed in lieu of foreclosure may have less impact on your credit reports than an involuntary foreclosure.


  Cutting Your Losses  

One advantage, especially if your home is significantly underwater, is that you can cut your losses when you stop making payments. However, some states allow lenders to go after borrowers for a "deficiency"—the difference between the amount you still owe on the loan and the foreclosure sale price—via a deficiency judgment. Make sure you know the laws of your state on this score.


  Lowering Your Credit  

Your credit score will take a major hit if you foreclose. The repercussions: It's likely to be harder to get new credit—say, for a car loan or a new credit card—and the interest rates you'll be offered will be higher.


  Finding New Housing  

You'll need to find another place to live, and landlords may refuse to rent to you or charge a higher monthly amount. And if you are looking to buy, you may not be able to get a mortgage for a few years. Fannie Mae, for instance, applies a four-year wait period before granting a new mortgage after a deed in lieu of foreclosure.





Pros

It's a faster, less complicated release from debt than an involuntary foreclosure and an opportunity to cut your losses.
A deed in lieu of foreclosure may have less impact on your credit scores than an involuntary foreclosure.
There's less social stigma attached than with an involuntary foreclosure.



Cons

You still may be subject to a deficiency judgment.
Your credit score will take a hit and getting new credit (a car loan, a credit card) may be harder and come with higher interest rates.
Although there's less stigma, employers may still deem you ineligible for certain jobs.





   Voluntary Foreclosures and the Housing Crisis of 2007–2009  

Prior to the American housing bubble and subprime mortgage crisis of the late 2000s, voluntary foreclosure was a rarely used option for borrowers struggling to afford their property loan payments; however, it has become much more widely used in the years since. In 2007 and 2008, housing prices plunged, often posting double-digit declines in value.



At the start of 2010, the percentage of mortgages that were underwater, the amount owed on the mortgage was more than the value of the home, increased dramatically. In California, Nevada, and Florida, more than 20% of mortgages were underwater.




What Does a Volunteer Foreclosure Do?
When you volunteer to foreclosure on your own house, it is usually because you cannot make loan payments on it. Instead of waiting for the lender to foreclose, you do it yourself.




What Happens If You Foreclose Your Own House?
If you volunteer to willingly foreclose on your home, your lender will allow you to surrender your home in exchange for canceling the mortgage debt. You must agree to leave the home in good condition and move by a specified date. When you voluntarily foreclose, your credit will take a hit but you will control the terms for leaving your home, and you may even receive money from your lender to finance your move out.




What Is a Deed-in-Lien?
A deed-in-lien is a voluntary foreclosure, which is not the same thing as a foreclosure. When you reach an understanding with your lender, you hand over the property to avoid your lender from putting you into foreclosure.
What Is a Voluntary Lien?  

A voluntary lien is a claim that one person has over the property of another as security for the payment of a debt. Liens are attached to the property and not to a person. A voluntary lien is contractual or consensual, meaning that the lien is created by an action taken by the debtor, such as a mortgage loan to buy real estate.


   Understanding Voluntary Lien  

A voluntary lien is a type of lien that exists because of an action taken by a debtor. This is the opposite of an involuntary lien that occurs by law, such as a tax or special assessment lien that is imposed by a regulatory authority. Naturally the holder of property cannot legally sell the property while a lien is in place. The lien should reflect the real value of the property in question that is being used as collateral. Should there be a default on the debt, the lien holder can take possession of the property—for example, through foreclosure proceedings in real estate or through a repossession of vehicles.


   Different Ways Voluntary Liens Are Applied  

In addition, mortgages for real estate, voluntary liens come into play with financing for other transactions, such as loans for cars. Oftentimes the physical property acts as collateral under the lien; however, there are examples where a voluntary lien is applied to business loans, personal loans with collateral other than cars or homes, credit agreements, and even rent-to-own appliances.



The nature of the lien might be structured to be placed on something other than property that is procured through the loan that was taken out. Instead, some sort of property that is already owned is put as collateral for a line of credit or cash advance that will be used for other purposes.



For instance, a lien could be put on a valuable painting that is put up as collateral for a cash advance to fund another purchase. A homeowner who has already paid off a mortgage might need more cash-in-hand and seek a home equity line of credit. Just as with a mortgage, the house would serve as collateral with the lien holder getting an interest. Moreover, a business could have a voluntary lien on it if the business owner takes out a line of credit to cover various operational costs and projects. In this case, they would not take possession of the business. Instead, they would receive a security interest in it.
What Is Voluntary Life Insurance?  

Voluntary life insurance is a financial protection plan that provides a cash benefit to a beneficiary upon the death of the insured. It’s an optional benefit offered by employers. The employee pays a monthly premium in exchange for the insurer’s guarantee of payment upon the insured’s death.



Employer sponsorship generally makes premiums for voluntary life insurance policies less expensive than individual life insurance policies sold in the retail market.





Key Takeaways

Voluntary life insurance is an optional benefit provided by employers that provides a death benefit to a beneficiary upon the death of an insured employee.It is paid for by a monthly premium that often takes the form of a payroll deduction.It is available to an employee immediately upon hiring or shortly thereafter.It is usually less expensive than life insurance policies purchased in the retail market.This benefit will cease upon the employee's termination or if they quit.


   Understanding Voluntary Life Insurance  

Many insurers provide voluntary life insurance plans with additional benefits and riders. For example, a plan might feature the option to purchase insurance above the guaranteed issue amount. Depending on the amount of the increase, policyholders may be required to submit proof that they meet minimum health standards.



Another is coverage portability, which is the ability of a policyholder to continue the life policy upon termination of employment. Each employer has guidelines for porting a policy. However, it is typically between 30 and 60 days after termination, and it requires the completion of paperwork. 



A third option is the ability to accelerate benefits, whereby the death benefit is paid during the life of the insured if they are declared terminally ill. There is also the option to purchase life insurance for spouses, domestic partners, and dependents, as defined by the insurance company.



Lastly, an immeasurable benefit offered by most employers is the option to deduct premiums from salary. Payroll deductions are convenient for the employee and allow for the effortless and timely payment of premiums.


   Special Considerations  

In addition to these benefits, some insurers provide optional riders, such as waiver of premium and accidental death and dismemberment riders. Riders are most often executed at issue and for an additional fee.



Voluntary life insurance is often available to employees immediately or soon after hire. For employees who opt out, coverage may next be available during open enrollment or after a qualifying life event, such as marriage, the birth or adoption of a child, or divorce. Selecting the right type of voluntary life insurance requires examining current and anticipated needs and is dependent on each person’s circumstances and goals.



Additionally, it's also worth comparing an employer's offering with the plans of other firms to ensure it's among the best life insurance policies currently available.






There are two basic types of voluntary life insurance: voluntary whole life and voluntary term life.


   Types of Voluntary Life Insurance  

There are two types of voluntary life insurance policies provided by employers: voluntary whole life and voluntary term life. The latter is also known as group term life insurance. Face amounts may be in multiples of an employee’s salary or stated values, such as $20,000, $50,000, or $100,000.


  Voluntary Whole Life Insurance  

Voluntary whole life protects the entire life of the insured. If whole life coverage is elected for a spouse or dependent, the policy protects that person’s entire life as well. Typically, amounts for spouses and dependents are less than amounts available for employees.



Just as with permanent whole life policies, cash value accumulates according to the underlying investments. Some policies only apply a fixed rate of interest to the cash value, whereas others allow for variable investing in equity funds.


  Voluntary Term Life Insurance  

Voluntary term life insurance is a policy that offers protection for a limited period, such as 10, 20, or 30 years. Building cash value and variable investing are not characteristics of voluntary term insurance. As a result, premiums are less expensive than their whole life equivalents. Premiums are level during the policy term but can increase upon renewal.






Voluntary life is often paid with pre-tax dollars. If it is paid with after-tax dollars it may be tax-deductible.


   Example of Voluntary Term Life Insurance as a Supplement  

Some participants choose voluntary term life as a supplement to their whole life insurance. For example, Jordan is married with children and has a $50,000 whole life insurance policy. After receiving a financial needs analysis, it is determined that their life insurance is insufficient. The life insurance broker suggests that Jordan maintain at least $300,000 in life insurance while their children are minors.



Jordan's employer offers voluntary term life insurance with reasonable premiums, and Jordan elects the coverage to supplement their existing coverage until their children reach the age of majority.




What Is Voluntary Dependent Life Insurance?
This employee benefit can cover a spouse, children, and any other eligible dependents, depending upon the rules laid out in the plan. In the event that a dependent dies, the employee would receive the death benefit.




Is Voluntary Term Life Group Insurance?
Yes. Voluntary life insurance is covered via a group policy put in place by an organization. Because of this, most individual employees can purchase a policy under the umbrella plan without underwriting or a medical exam. Additionally, the cost of the premiums will typically be less than for an individual policy.




How Much Voluntary Term Life Insurance Do I Need?
While you may want or need a larger death benefit, voluntary term life is usually limited by an employer to either 1x-2x the amount of your annual compensation. Other companies will set a cap at between $50,000 - $250,000 in coverage.




What Is the Difference Between Group Term and Voluntary Term Life Insurance?
Voluntary life insurance and group life insurance are often used interchangeably.
What Is a Voluntary Liquidation?  

A voluntary liquidation is a self-imposed windup and dissolution of a company that has been approved by its shareholders. Such a decision will happen once an organization’s leadership decides that the company has no reason to continue operating. It is not a compulsory order by a court.



The purpose is to terminate a company’s operations, wrap up its financial affairs, and dismantle its corporate structure in an orderly fashion while paying back creditors according to their assigned priority.





Key Takeaways

A voluntary liquidation involves the termination of a corporation by selling off its assets and settling its outstanding financial obligations.The purpose of a voluntary liquidation is to cash out of a business that does not have a viable future or has no other purpose in remaining operational.Such a liquidation is not mandated by any court or regulatory body, but it must be approved by the company’s shareholders and board of directors.


   Understanding a Voluntary Liquidation  

A voluntary liquidation resolution must be initiated by a company’s board of directors or ownership. The process begins after a resolution to cease operations (assuming that operations are ongoing) is approved by the company’s shareholders. The shareholder vote allows the liquidation of assets to free up funds to pay debts.



A voluntary liquidation stands in contrast to a forced liquidation, which involves the involuntary sale of assets or securities to create liquidity due to an unforeseen or uncontrollable situation.



The reasons for a voluntary liquidation are numerous. It may happen due to unfavorable business conditions, such as operating at a loss or the market moving in another direction, or business strategy considerations. Ownership may want to exact a degree of tax relief for shutting down or decide to reorganize and transfer assets to another company in exchange for an ownership or equity stake in the acquiring company.



In some cases, the liquidating company was only meant to exist for a limited amount of time or for a specific purpose that has been fulfilled. It can also be due to a key company member leaving, which causes the shareholders to decide not to continue operations.


   Voluntary Liquidation Process  

In the United States, a voluntary liquidation may begin with the occurrence of an event as specified by a company’s board of directors. In such cases, a liquidator who answers to shareholders and creditors is appointed.



If the company is solvent, the shareholders can supervise the voluntary liquidation. If the company is not solvent, creditors and shareholders may control the liquidation process by getting a court order. Unless the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency waives this requirement, stockholders owning two-thirds of the company’s shares must vote in favor of the voluntary liquidation.



Voluntary liquidations in the United Kingdom are divided into two categories. One is the creditors’ voluntary liquidation, which occurs under a state of corporate insolvency. The other is the members’ voluntary liquidation, which only requires a corporate declaration of bankruptcy.



Under the second category, the firm is solvent but needs to liquidate its assets to meet its upcoming obligations. Stockholders owning three-quarters of a company’s shares must vote in favor of a voluntary liquidation resolution for the motion to pass.




What Is a Voluntary Liquidation?
A voluntary liquidation involves the winding up of a company’s affairs and the selling of its assets, which funds the settling of its debts. It results in the dissolution of the company.




Who Institutes a Voluntary Liquidation?
The company’s ownership or board of directors must initiate the process, but generally, the decision must be approved by a vote of those holding either two-thirds of the company’s shares (U.S.) or three-fourths of them (U.K.).




Why Would a Company Choose a Voluntary Liquidation?
The reasons are numerous, ranging from unfavorable business conditions that threaten the company’s future to the loss of a key figure that the ownership does not think it can survive without. The company may have been designed to be in business only for a set amount of time or for a specific purpose that has been fulfilled. The company could also be seeking tax relief or looking to reorganize and transfer assets to another company.


   The Bottom Line  

Voluntary liquidation is a process by which a company ceases doing business without a court order requiring dissolution. The process is slightly different in the U.S. and the U.K., but both require that the board of directors institute the process and that a specified percentage of shareholders approve it. Depending on the situation, a company’s creditors may also be involved in instigating or carrying out the liquidation.
What Is Voluntary Plan Termination?  

Voluntary plan termination is the discontinuance of a defined-benefit plan by an employer. Since an employer is not legally required to provide a retirement plan to employees, it can terminate an established plan.



However, an employer can terminate a voluntary plan only if all of the requirements for a standard termination or distress termination are followed by the plan administrator. Section 4041 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations addresses voluntary plan terminations.





Key Takeaways:

An employer can terminate a voluntary retirement plan since they are not legally required to provide a retirement plan to employees.An employer might terminate a plan if they are facing bankruptcy, involved in a merger acquisition, or switching to another plan.The plan administrator must follow Section 4041 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations when conducting a voluntary plan termination.Affected participants can usually roll over the distributed money to another qualified plan.


   Understanding Voluntary Plan Termination  

According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), since an employer isn’t required by law to provide a retirement plan for employees, it can terminate its retirement plan.



An employer might terminate a plan for the following reasons:



A decision to terminate the planIf the firm is facing bankruptcyIf the business is to be sold to another company or purchased by another companyIf the employer is switching to an alternative retirement plan



Under a voluntary plan termination, the assets must be distributed to participants in a manner described by federal law. The employer has the unilateral right to modify or end the retirement plan at any time. This right is set out by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.



The allocation of plan assets is usually done by the plan administrator or trustee. An employer must distribute assets from a terminated plan as soon as administratively feasible after the plan is terminated. Affected participants can usually roll over the distributed money to another qualified plan or individual retirement account (IRA).



The IRS states: "For terminated defined benefit plans with insufficient money to pay all of the benefits, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation will guarantee the payment of vested pension benefits up to limits set by law.



For terminated defined contribution plans (for example, 401(k), 403(b) or profit-sharing), participants generally receive the full amount of their vested account balance upon plan termination."﻿﻿



In a defined benefit plan termination, Form 6088 (reporting the distributable benefits) must be submitted along with a signed and dated actuary’s certification of the adjusted funding target percentage.


  Partial Plan Termination  

A plan may be partially terminated if more than 20% of plan participants were laid off in a particular year. Partial terminations may be connected with a significant corporate event such as a closed office location or as a result of adverse economic conditions.



The law requires all affected employees to be fully vested in their account balance as of the date of a full or partial plan termination.
Voluntary Reserve: An Overview  

A voluntary reserve is a sum of cash that is held by an insurance company over and above any minimum required by government regulators.



State regulations set minimum reserve requirements for insurance companies that are intended to ensure they remain solvent. Voluntary reserves, also known as additionally held liquid assets, are recorded as such in company financial statements.



State regulators have similar reserve requirements for financial institutions within their jurisdictions. Like insurance companies, those institutions may have voluntary reserves.





Key Takeaways

An insurance company's voluntary reserve is its cash on hand that exceeds the minimums set by state regulators.The minimums are intended to guarantee that the company remains solvent.The standards for reserve accounts range from 8% to 12% of revenue.


   How a Voluntary Reserve Works  

State regulators use tools provided by the Insurance Regulatory Information System (IRIS), which is managed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), to determine the solvency of insurance companies in their jurisdictions, and the appropriate amount of cash they should have in reserve.



IRIS mines financial information filed by each insurance company in order to determine which insurance companies may face solvency issues. The regulatory body determines a range of liquidity ratio values that are considered acceptable for each company. Outlying values indicate that an insurer should be examined more closely by regulators.


  Determining the Reserve Amount  

Insurance companies have competing considerations when deciding on the size of a voluntary reserve.



A large amount of cash on hand is a sign of the company's stability and its ability to meet the demands of any catastrophe. But it also decreases the amount available to reinvest in the business or reward shareholders.



There are few restrictions on the use of a voluntary reserve, however. The company could choose to pay any unexpected expense from it or, for that matter, use it to fund a shareholder dividend.



Various tax laws and accounting practices discourage property and casualty insurers, in particular, from setting aside excess money even for catastrophes.



An insurance company's voluntary reserve is separate from its claim reserve, which is an amount of money budgeted for policyholder claims that have not yet been filed.


  The Standard  

Standard levels of reserves in the industry range from 8% to 12% of the company's total revenues. The requirements vary depending on the type of risks a company assumes.



Reserve requirements are a shifting field for regulators. In 2016, an NAIC report concluded that the existing formulas for reserves were excessive in some cases and inadequate in others, depending on the circumstances and clientele of the company. The standards, it found, did not reflect the growing variety and complexity of financial products that are now sold by life insurance companies.


  Life Insurance Reserves  

The report recommended “principle-based reserving” for life insurance companies. This departure from past practice bases reserve requirements on a highly individualized mix of factors that include the demographics of the company's clients, the company's financial performance, and its financial strength.



As a result, at least 46 states have moved to change their formulas determining reserve requirements.
What Is Voluntary Simplicity?  

Voluntary simplicity is a lifestyle choice that minimizes the needless consumption of material goods and the pursuit of wealth for its own sake. It is sometimes referred to as "simple living," "the simple life," or "downshifting." People embrace voluntary simplicity to create less complicated and more meaningful lives for themselves and their families, and to reduce the negative impact that unnecessary consumption can have on the environment.





New Takeaways

Voluntary simplicity de-emphasizes the accumulation of money and material goods in return for a more meaningful and less stressful life.By reducing unnecessary consumption, voluntary simplicity can also have environmental benefits.People who practice voluntary simplicity say it isn't about deprivation, but liberation.


   Understanding Voluntary Simplicity  

Advocates of voluntary simplicity believe that today's consumer culture too often encourages people to think that they can buy happiness or boost their social status with expensive goods, luxury cars, and ever-larger homes. Instead, some people choose to leave the proverbial rat race and join the voluntary simplicity movement.



Because a simpler life is less costly, advocates say, people can work fewer hours and have more time for themselves and their family. Voluntary simplicity is not just about living with less of what money can buy, but about wanting less in the first place. People who practice it say they don't feel deprived, but liberated.


   Types of Voluntary Simplicity  

Voluntary simplicity has come in and out of vogue for decades, under numerous names and in many variations. One early advocate was the author and philosopher Henry David Thoreau. He spent a little over two years living the simple life in a small house he built on the shore of Walden Pond near Concord, Massachusetts, and chronicled the experience in his famous 1854 book, "Walden, or Life in the Woods." Thoreau's simple advice to readers: "Simplify, simplify."



A century after Thoreau, the hippie counterculture brought a voluntary simplicity vibe to the 1960s and early '70s, with its rejection of material goods and its embrace of communal living and a back-to-the-land movement. By 1971, former Beatle John Lennon was urging fans and followers to "imagine no possessions," in his song "Imagine."



Toward the end of the 20th century, voluntary simplicity became a key principle of the Financial Independence, Retire Early (FIRE) movement, advanced by authors Vicki Robin and Joe Dominguez, among others. It suggested that people who drastically slashed their expenses and saved the money instead could leave the workforce long before traditional retirement age and spend those years doing the things they really wanted to do.



More recently, Marie Kondo's 2014 bestseller, "The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up: The Japanese Art of Decluttering and Organizing," became a new addition to the voluntary simplicity canon. It urged readers to purge possessions that were merely weighing them down, both physically and mentally. Kondo's advice: "Keep only those things that speak to the heart, and discard items that no longer spark joy. Thank them for their service—then let them go."






You don't have to embrace every aspect of voluntary simplicity but can chose the ones you think will enhance your life. Voluntary simplicity is, after all, voluntary.


   Special Considerations  

People can practice voluntary simplicity—and enjoy some of its benefits—even if they don't want to make it the focal point of their lives.



That might mean downsizing from a large house to a smaller one, as many people do when they reach retirement age, both to simplify their lives and to reduce their living costs. It might mean cooking at home more and eating out less, especially if cooking is an activity you enjoy. It might also mean growing some vegetables in your garden instead of buying everything at the store.



If you are in a position to do so, voluntary simplicity might involve paring back on the hours you spend at work so you can devote more time to family activities or hobbies. Or it might mean ratcheting up your savings now so that you can leave your job for good, sooner rather than later.



Voluntary simplicity is an individual choice and there are many ways to incorporate it into your life. Spending less, reducing clutter, and mindful consumption are three easy ways to begin.
What Is Voluntary Termination?  

Voluntary termination may refer to a variety of actions, but most commonly, it refers to an employee's decision to leave a job on their own accord. It differs from a layoff or a firing, in which the decision to end employment was made by the employer or another party, rather than the employee.



Voluntary termination can also be a reference to the voluntary cancellation of personal financial contracts, such as car leases or cell phone contracts, or the voluntary cancellation of institutional level contracts such as credit default swaps and interest rate swaps.





Key Takeaways

Voluntary termination occurs when an employee makes the decision to leave a job or end a contract early.Voluntary termination is different from being fired, laid off, or downsized, as the decision is made by the employee, not the employer.Some firms downsizing ask for voluntary resignations in exchange for a better exit package, such as a bigger payout, health insurance, or other benefits.Choosing to end a contract early, such as with an Internet provider, is also referred to as a voluntary termination.


   Understanding Voluntary Termination  

An employee may choose to leave a job for a wide variety of reasons. For example, a change in personal circumstances such as family demands, a choice to go back to school, dissatisfaction with working conditions such as a hostile supervisor, lack of recognition of work performance, and lack of autonomy, challenge, or work relationships (among others).



An especially common reason for voluntary termination is leaving for a new and better job, typically one that offers higher remuneration or improved career prospects. This is more likely to be cited as a reason for leaving a job during periods of strong economic growth and labor market demand than during recessionary times.



During recessionary times, or even during times when a particular firm is under duress, companies going through downsizing may ask some employees to voluntarily resign in order to reduce the number of layoffs the firm must carry out. In these circumstances, the company may offer the employee that is leaving voluntarily an improved exit package, including extra weeks of severance pay, longer coverage of health insurance, and any other benefits.



In most cases, voluntarily leaving a job means that the employee will not be eligible to collect unemployment insurance unless the person has quit for a reason deemed to be a "good cause," such as unsafe working conditions. However, eligibility for unemployment benefits can vary based on where you live.






Conventional wisdom suggests that workers do not leave jobs but rather leave supervisors over conflicts in management style, lack of respect, or poor communication over goals, objectives, and practices.


   The Process Involved in Voluntary Termination  

Voluntary termination by an employee will generally start with either a verbal or written notification of resignation to their supervisor. In some circumstances, there may also be the perception of job abandonment when a worker fails to show up for work for three consecutive days without notifying a supervisor.



Employees who choose to leave a job are generally expected to provide at least two weeks of notice before their final day at work. This is considered to be a professional way to handle resignation: it allows the company time to begin the process of finding a new employee and allows the worker time to prepare for the transition.



When submitting their resignation notice an employee can expect their supervisor to immediately forward it to human resources along with their intended end date and reason for leaving. Once human resources are involved, the employee can expect to be asked to return company property, to finalize and submit final expense reports, have their post-termination benefits summarized for them, and be asked to schedule an exit interview. Supervisors may be asked to complete a Supervisory Termination Summary, a form that is submitted to human resources.






Sometimes an employer facing downsizing will ask employees to voluntarily resign, as this limits the number of layoffs that will be necessary; employees that accept might be given a better exit package than those that are ultimately downsized.


   Special Considerations  

Voluntary termination can also be a reference to an individual's choice to cancel a financial contract, such as a cell phone plan. The voluntary cancellation of a financial contract, in this circumstance, may or may not incur penalties. In case a penalty will be incurred, the party who wishes to terminate the contract may be able to rationalize the termination decision if the net benefit from terminating the contract is substantially larger than the penalty.
What Is a Voluntary Trust?  

A voluntary trust is a type of living trust that is created during the lifetime of the trustor and is also known as an inter vivos trust. In a voluntary trust, the trustor retains the legal title of the gift transferred to the beneficiary, even though the beneficiary has actual title and possession and ability to carry out actions of the trust. A voluntary trust is also defined as an obligation arising out of a personal confidence reposed in, and voluntarily accepted by, one individual for the benefit of another. This is in contrast to an involuntary trust, which is created by law.


   Understanding Voluntary Trusts  

Voluntary trusts are often used in estate planning. In the situations of real estate, the person who controls the real estate property is known as the trustee, while the individual who will receive the property after it is being held is known as the trustor. The property itself is referred to as the res.



In a voluntary trust, no consideration is made. In a voluntary trust, the recipient of the trust gives nothing in exchange for the trust but receives it as a pure gift. By avoiding receiving something in return, voluntary trusts are distinguished from trusts for value, which are trusts made in favor of purchasers and mortgagees. The opposite of a voluntary trust is an involuntary trust, which can be further broken down into constructive or resulting trusts.



In some cases, a voluntary trust can also simply refer to the interpersonal confidence between two individuals regarding an obligation for the benefit of each other, or one individual in the relationship. However, in legal terms, a voluntary trust is a formal structural setup that can oversee an organization’s activities and, in some cases, its financial operations.


   Example of a Voluntary Trust  

Many types of charitable and service organizations operate voluntary funds in order to maintain operations. As an example of how a voluntary trust can work, one can look at the Trust Fund of the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations. Through a Special Report made by the organization’s High-Level Group, it was recommended the Alliance establish a voluntary trust fund. As the organization explains via its website, the primary objectives of the Trust Fund are to support the projects and activities of the Alliance of Civilizations, the activities and outreach initiatives undertaken by the High Representative in his official capacity and assist with core operational and human resources needs.
What Is Vomma?  

Vomma is the rate at which the vega of an option will react to volatility in the market. Vomma is part of the group of measures—such as delta, gamma, and vega—known as the "Greeks," which are used in options pricing.





Key Takeaways

Vomma is the rate at which the vega of an option will react to volatility in the market.Vomma is a second-order derivative for an option’s value and demonstrates the convexity of vega.Vomma is part of the group of measures—such as delta, gamma, and vega—known as the "Greeks," which are used in options pricing.


   Understanding Vomma  

Vomma is a second-order derivative for an option’s value and demonstrates the convexity of vega. A positive value for vomma indicates that a percentage point increase in volatility will result in an increased option value, which is demonstrated by vega's convexity.



Vomma and vega are two factors involved in understanding and identifying profitable option trades. The two work together in providing detail on an option's price and the option price’s sensitivity to market changes. They can influence the sensitivity and interpretation of the Black-Scholes pricing model for option pricing.



Vomma is a second-order Greek derivative, which means that its value provides insight on how vega will change with the implied volatility (IV) of the underlying instrument. If a positive vomma is calculated and volatility increases, vega on the option position will increase. If volatility falls, a positive vomma would indicate a decrease in vega. If vomma is negative, the opposite occurs with volatility changes as indicated by vega’s convexity.



Generally, investors with long options should look for a high, positive value for vomma, while investors with short options should look for a negative one.



The formula for calculating vomma is below:












Vomma


=




∂


ν




∂


σ




=





∂


2



V




∂



σ


2










\begin{aligned} \text{Vomma} = \frac{ \partial \nu}{\partial \sigma} = \frac{\partial ^ 2V}{\partial\sigma ^ 2} \end{aligned}


Vomma=∂σ∂ν​=∂σ2∂2V​​



Vega and vomma are measures that can be used in gauging the sensitivity of the Black-Scholes option pricing model to variables affecting option prices. They are considered along with the Black-Scholes pricing model when making investment decisions.


   Vega  

Vega helps an investor to understand a derivative option’s sensitivity to volatility occurring from the underlying instrument. Vega provides the amount of expected positive or negative change in an option’s price per 1% change in the volatility of the underlying instrument. A positive vega indicates an increase in the option price and a negative vega indicates a decrease in the option price.



Vega is measured in whole numbers with values usually ranging from -20 to 20. Higher time periods result in a higher vega. Vega values signify multiples representing losses and gains. A vega of 5 on Stock A at $100, for example, would indicate a loss of $5 for every point decrease in implied volatility and a gain of $5 for every point increase.



The formula for calculating vega is below:


















ν


=


S


ϕ


(


d


1


)



t

















with
















ϕ


(


d


1


)


=




e



−




d



1


2




2







2


π



















and
















d


1


=




l


n


(



S


K



)


+


(


r


+




σ


2



2



)


t




σ



t



















where:
















K


=


option strike price
















N


=


standard normal cumulative distribution function
















r


=


risk free interest rate
















σ


=


volatility of the underlying
















S


=


price of the underlying
















t


=


time to option’s expiry







\begin{aligned} &\nu = S \phi (d1) \sqrt{t} \\ &\text{with} \\ &\phi (d1) = \frac {e ^ { -\frac{d1 ^ 2}{2} } }{ \sqrt{2 \pi} } \\ &\text{and} \\ &d1 = \frac { ln \bigg ( \frac {S}{K} \bigg ) + \bigg ( r + \frac {\sigma ^ 2}{2} \bigg ) t }{ \sigma \sqrt{t} } \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &K = \text{option strike price} \\ &N = \text{standard normal cumulative distribution function} \\ &r = \text{risk free interest rate} \\ &\sigma = \text{volatility of the underlying} \\ &S=\text{price of the underlying} \\ &t = \text{time to option's expiry} \\ \end{aligned}


​ν=Sϕ(d1)t​withϕ(d1)=2π​e−2d12​​andd1=σt​ln(KS​)+(r+2σ2​)t​where:K=option strike priceN=standard normal cumulative distribution functionr=risk free interest rateσ=volatility of the underlyingS=price of the underlyingt=time to option’s expiry​
What Is Voodoo Accounting?  

The term voodoo accounting refers to a creative and unethical method of accounting that artificially inflates figures found on a company's financial statements. Voodoo accounting employs numerous accounting gimmicks to boost the bottom line by inflating revenue, concealing expenses, or both.



The individual accounting maneuvers used in voodoo accounting may be minor, and one-time accounting gimmicks may be ignored by investors. However, repeat offenses often affect the company’s market value and reputation for the worse.





Key Takeaways

Voodoo accounting is a slang term for illegal or unethical accounting practices that seem to magically improve a company's financial figures, inflating revenues and concealing expenses—or both.Voodoo accounting practices came under scrutiny after a series of accounting scandals came to light including the collapses of Enron, Tyco, and WorldCom.The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was passed in response to these scandals to reform regulations and enforce stricter penalties on those responsible for fraudulent acts.


   How Voodoo Accounting Works  

As noted above, voodoo accounting describes the tricks a company may use to hide its losses and inflate its profits. The reason behind the name is simple—profits and losses seem to magically appear and disappear using accounting gimmicks.



This process is not only unprofessional, but it's also unethical. That's because companies that use this technique knowingly deceive investors and analysts into believing that they're much more profitable than they actually are. Accounting tricks are hard to pull off for companies subjected to higher levels of analysis. It is among smaller, less followed public companies that voodoo accounting can be more prevalent.



Creative accounting techniques are not new. In fact, they've existed for decades. Some of the voodoo accounting practices identified by former Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chair Arthur Levitt at the height of the dotcom bubble in the late 1990s included:



Big bath charges: This technique involves the improper reporting of one-time losses. Companies do this by taking a huge charge to mask lower-than-expected earnings.
Cookie jar reserves: This gimmick is used by companies for income smoothing.
Recognizing revenue before it is actually collected.
Merger magic: When a company uses this trick, it writes off all or most of an acquisition price as in-process research and development (R&D).



Most companies take part in practices like voodoo accounting so investors don't lose confidence in them. After all, a profit is much better than losses—especially when they're consistent. And the pressure of meeting quarterly earnings expectations on Wall Street is also another primary motivation for using voodoo accounting. But when discovered, these tricks could have serious implications. Executive compensation and jobs are normally at stake, along with a company's reputation and value in the market.


   Special Considerations  

As the accounting profession evolved and regulators became more serious in enforcing laws, voodoo accounting came under greater scrutiny. This was especially true following the Enron scandal. The failing energy and utility company used off-the-book accounting practices to fool shareholders and regulators into believing it was profitable.



Enron used special purpose vehicles (SPVs) to hide losses, toxic assets, and volumes of debt, thereby deceiving both its creditors and shareholders. The company filed for Chapter 11 and the scandal resulted in fines and charges for a number of company executives.﻿﻿



The Enron scandal rocked the financial world because of the tricks that the company used to hide copious amounts of debt and toxic assets it was dealing with for years. Regulators took notice of Enron's actions along with other cases of financial misconduct from the likes of Tyco and WorldCom by passing the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.﻿﻿ The law required reforms to regulations and also set in stricter penalties for those who committed financial fraud.﻿﻿






The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was passed to ensure companies are truthful and transparent in their financial reporting.


   Example of Voodoo Accounting  

Here's a hypothetical example of how voodoo accounting works. A company may employ voodoo accounting to prematurely recognize $5 billion of revenue while concealing $1 billion in unexpected expenses during a quarter.



These tactics enable it to report net income that is $6 million higher than the true figure for the quarter. This may have significant implications on the stock price upon release of the quarterly earnings report. However, the discovery that these additional profits for the period were not real would quickly erase a positive share price reaction and call into question management credibility.
What Is Voodoo Economics?  

Voodoo economics is a derogatory phrase first used during the 1980 presidential primaries by George H.W. Bush, then a candidate, to describe his opponent Ronald Reagan's proposals to reinvigorate the U.S. economy. Reagan won that election, and his economic policies came to be known as "Reaganomics."



Reaganomics was a policy that combined steep tax cuts, the deregulation of domestic markets, lower government spending, and a tightening of the money supply.





Key Takeaways

Voodoo economics is a derogatory phrase first used by George H.W. Bush to describe Ronald Reagan's economic policies.It was later known to both critics and supporters as Reaganomics. Reaganomics was based on the belief that tax cuts on corporations and the rich would propel economic expansion to the benefit of all.The phrase voodoo economics is now often used to dismiss any ambitious economic promise made by a politician.


   Understanding Voodoo Economics  

Ronald Reagan, a Republican, was elected the 40th U.S. president after a prolonged period of economic stagflation that began under Republican President Gerald Ford in 1976 and continued into the term of President Jimmy Carter, a Democrat whose single term ended with his defeat by Reagan in the 1980 election. Reagan's vice president was George H. W. Bush.



President Reagan was a proponent of supply-side economics, which favors reducing income and capital gains tax rates in order to encourage economic growth. He believed that the savings generated by companies from corporate tax cuts would trickle down. That is, the savings would be invested in ways that benefited smaller businesses, spurred innovation, created new jobs, and eventually benefited the population as a whole.



He also asserted that the newly-invigorated companies would eventually pay more taxes anyway, boosting the government's coffers as a healthier economy encouraged them to increase production.



In 1980, Bush Sr. famously described these economic policies as "voodoo economics," arguing that supply-side reforms would not be enough to rejuvenate the economy and would greatly increase the national debt.



Bush Sr. changed his stance after being elected vice president, first denying that he called Reagan's policy proposal voodoo economics and then claiming that he was “kidding” when footage was dug up showing him using the phrase.



Nevertheless, the phrase caught on with Reagan's critics.


   Criticism of Voodoo Economics  

Bush Sr. was criticized for characterizing the policies of his then-rival as voodoo economics. His comments were viewed as a spiteful attempt to discredit Reagan while running against him in the Republican primary.



A core belief of supply-side economics is that motivating the rich invigorates spending and increases confidence and job security among the working population.



In the drooping economy of the late 1970s, it was argued that these forces would bring the economy out of the stagflation it had been mired in since 1973. Furthermore, it was believed less government spending and reduced oversight would give the financial industry, in particular, a much-needed boost.


  Side Effects of Reaganomics  

Those expectations did not all take shape exactly as planned. During President Reagan's two terms in office, unemployment fell considerably, disposable income rose, and inflation was brought under control.



However, the expectation that decreased taxes on the wealthy and businesses would result in increased spending on goods, services, and salaries failed to materialize. Moreover, President Reagan’s relaxed regulation contributed to the savings and loan crisis.



By the early 1990s, the U.S. economy had fallen back into recession.



President Reagan’s policies contributed to a near doubling of the national debt, in part due to his commitment to cut taxes while increasing military spending.






Voodoo economics has become a popular phrase used to dismiss any ambitious economic pledges made by a politician.


   Special Considerations  

After two terms as vice president, George H.W. Bush was elected president in 1989 and served for a single term.



As president, Bush prioritized broader fiscal responsibility over tax cuts. In 1990, he even agreed to a tax increase, reneging on a promise made just two years earlier. That embarrassing U-turn saw him face criticism from his own party. He went on to lose the 1992 presidential election to a Democrat, Bill Clinton.




What Is Supply-Side Economics?
Supply-side economics is a theory that maintains that increasing the supply of goods and services leads to economic growth. That is, businesses that aim to increase production need to spend money. They hire more people, expand factories, buy more raw materials, and find more outlets for their goods.Government officials who subscribe to this theory advocate tax cuts for corporations and wealthy individuals. They argue that this is a way to put more money in the hands of producers who will increase their spending to the benefit of consumers and workers.




What Is Demand-Side Economics?
Demand-side economics could be seen as the opposite of supply-side economics.Demand-side economics maintains that increasing the demand for goods and services is the key to economic growth.A demand-side economic policy might call for large-scale government spending on infrastructure projects in order to increase related production, purchases, and hiring.Demand-side economics may also be called Keynesian economics for John Maynard Keynes, who developed the theory and advocated its implementation as a way out of the Great Depression of the 1930s.




Was George H.W. Bush a Voodoo Economist?
As vice president, George H.W. Bush wisely did not make any reference to voodoo economics. He supported President Ronald Reagan's program of tax cuts on corporations and wealthy individuals.As president, Bush might have been a more moderate proponent of voodoo economics. In 1990, he raised the maximum individual income tax rate to 31%, from 28%, two years after promising to do no such thing. That contributed to his failure to be reelected to a second term.


   The Bottom Line  

Voodoo economics is a derogatory term for an economic policy that favors tax cuts for business and wealthy individuals as a way to spur economic growth that benefits all. Trickle-down economics is another derogatory term for it.



Its more formal name is supply-side economics. This theory argues that increasing production of goods and services leads the way to economic growth.
What is the Vortex Indicator (VI)?  

A vortex indicator (VI) is an indicator composed of two lines - an uptrend line (VI+) and a downtrend line (VI-). These lines are typically colored green and red respectively. A vortex indicator is used to spot trend reversals and confirm current trends.


   Understanding Vortex Indicator (VI)  

The vortex indicator was first developed by Etienne Botes and Douglas Siepman who introduced the concept in a 2009 edition of “Technical Analysis of Stocks & Commodities.” ﻿﻿﻿The vortex indicator is based on two trendlines: VI+ and VI-.


   Vortex Indicator Calculations  

The calculation for the indicator is divided into four parts.



1. True range (TR) is the greatest of:



Current high minus current lowCurrent high minus previous closeCurrent low minus previous close



2. Uptrend and downtrend movement:



VM+ = Absolute value of current high minus prior lowVM- = Absolute value of current low minus prior high



3. Parameter length (n)



Decide on a parameter length (between 14 and 30 days is common)Sum the last n period’s true range, VM+ and VM-:Sum of the last n periods’ true range = SUM TRnSum of the last n periods’ VM+ = SUM VMn+Sum of the last n periods’ VM- = SUM VMn−



4. Create the trendlines VI+ and VI-



SUM VMn+/SUM TRn = VIn+SUM VMn-/SUM TRn = VIn−Repeating this process daily forms the VI+ and VI- trendlines.



The traditional application of using VI- and VI+ crossovers can result in a number of false trade signals when price action is choppy. Increase the number of periods used in the indicator to reduce this, for example, using 25 periods instead of 14.


   Inferences  

The vortex indicator is commonly used in conjunction with other reversal trend patterns to help support a reversal signal. It is integrated into most technical analysis software programs. VI+ and VI- are typically graphed independently below a candlestick chart. The chart below provides an example with lines that indicate changing trend signals on a candlestick chart.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



An uptrend or buy signal occurs when VI+ is below VI- and then crosses above VI- to take the top position among the trendlines. A downtrend or sell signal occurs when VI- is below VI+ and crosses above VI+ to take the top position among the trendlines. Overall, the trendline in the top position generally dictates whether the security is in an uptrend or downtrend.
What Is a Vostro Account?  

A vostro account is an account a correspondent bank holds on behalf of another bank. These accounts are an essential aspect of correspondent banking in which the bank holding the funds acts as custodian for or manages the account of a foreign counterpart. For example, if a Spanish life insurance company approaches a U.S. bank to manage funds on the Spanish life insurer's behalf, the account is deemed by the holding bank as a vostro account of the insurance company.





Key Takeaways

A vostro account is an essential part of correspondent banking in which a foreign bank acts as an agent providing financial services on behalf of a domestic bank.Vostro is a Latin word that translates to "your," as in "your account."Vostro accounts enable domestic banks to provide international banking services to their clients who have global banking needs.Vostro account services include executing wire transfers, performing foreign exchange transactions, enabling deposits and withdrawals, and expediting international trade.


   Understanding Vostro Accounts  

A vostro account is established to enable a foreign correspondent bank to act as an agent or provide services as an intermediary for a domestic bank. These services include executing wire transfers, withdrawals, and deposits for customers in countries where the domestic bank does not have a physical presence.



The foreign correspondent bank might also perform treasury services, execute foreign exchange transactions, and expedite international trade on behalf of the domestic bank. The correspondent bank charges the domestic bank for the services associated with the vostro account.


   Vostro Account vs. Nostro Account  

The term vostro, translated from Latin, means "your," as in your account. From the foreign correspondent bank’s point of view, the funds held on behalf of other banks are referred to as vostro accounts and are denominated in the local currency.



From the perspective of domestic banks, the funds deposited at correspondent banks are referred to as nostro accounts. Nostro, translated from Latin, means "our," as in our accounts. Nostro accounts are denominated in the foreign currency of the correspondent bank.



In the context of banking and finance, a Vostro account is the account held by the respondent bank on behalf of the correspondent bank. Meanwhile, a Nostro account is the account held by the correspondent bank at the respondent bank. These two terms reflect the perspective of each bank in the correspondent banking relationship.






Small domestic banks that lack financial and human resources sometimes use the services of larger correspondent banks in foreign countries as an economic way to serve clients with global banking needs.


   Uses of Vostro Accounts  

There are several situations where vostro accounts are typically used. The most common situations include but are not limited to:



International Trade. Vostro accounts make transactions in international trade possible. Vostro accounts can be used by importers and exporters to settle payments, manage currency conversions, and guarantee effective trade finance operations.
Payment Remittance. Vostro accounts can be used for sending money to other people. Respondent banks may maintain Vostro accounts with correspondent banks in nations where their clients often remit or receive funds, facilitating quicker and easier cross-border remittance transactions.
Foreign Currency Transactions. Vostro accounts allow responding banks to hold money in foreign currencies for foreign currency transactions. This is especially advantageous for banks that frequently carry out foreign currency transactions, including currency hedging or foreign exchange trading.
Cost Mitigation. Vostro accounts can assist in lowering transaction costs related to international transfers and currency conversions. Respondent banks can streamline their operations and potentially reduce foreign exchange fees by storing funds in the correspondent bank's native currency. 
Regulatory Compliance: Vostro accounts make it possible for responding banks to abide by regional laws in international marketplaces. The respondent bank can guarantee compliance with regulatory requirements such as know-your-customer duties by using a correspondent bank's services through a Vostro account.


   Vostro Accounts in an Agency Relationship  

For most banks, the cost of building physical branches in every country their customers might need banking services is prohibitive. As a solution, domestic banks can initiate agency relationship agreements with correspondent banks to transact business for customers who are traveling, living abroad, or who own companies that do business abroad. As an agent of the domestic bank, the correspondent bank is authorized to perform certain agreed-upon financial transactions, acting as a fiduciary in the relationship.



In this relationship, both banks perform due diligence on each other to assess their credibility, financial stability, compliance with regulations, and suitability for the intended agency relationship. The banks also negotiate terms of the agency relationship agreement, document it in a formal agreement, ensure compliance with relevant regulatory requirements, and implement the necessary operational and technical processes to facilitate transactions and reporting related to the vostro account.


   Vostro Accounts in an Intermediary Relationship  

When funds are wired between a domestic and a foreign bank that do not have a direct relationship, a correspondent bank acts as the financial intermediary in the transaction. To facilitate the wire, the originator of the transfer sends the amount of the wire plus applicable fees to the vostro account held on its behalf by the correspondent bank. The correspondent bank deducts the fees and the amount of the wire from the vostro account and executes a domestic wire to the receiving bank.



In this type of relationship, the correspondent bank provides regular reports to the respondent bank. This includes detailing the transactions, balances, and other relevant information related to the vostro account. This helps the respondent bank monitor its financial activities in the foreign market and maintain oversight of its funds.



Additionally, this vostro account arrangement helps mitigate risks associated with cross-border transactions. Both banks must adhere to regulatory requirements, such as anti-money laundering and consumer regulations, ensuring compliance and enhancing the integrity of the financial system.


   Example of a Vostro Account  

With a vostro account relationship in place, the customer of a domestic bank can walk into the office of a correspondent bank to withdraw or deposit funds. For example, to process a customer’s withdrawal of funds at a correspondent bank, the domestic bank deducts the withdrawal amount plus any fees from the customer’s account and executes a transfer to the vostro account held by the correspondent bank. The funds are converted to the local currency, deducted from the vostro account, and paid to the domestic bank’s customer, minus the applicable fees.




How Does a Vostro Account Benefit Banks?
Vostro accounts allow banks to expand their global reach, offer services in foreign currencies, reduce transaction costs, mitigate currency risks, and provide convenient access to local banking infrastructure and services in foreign markets.




What Types of Transactions Are Conducted Through Vostro Accounts?
Vostro accounts facilitate a range of transactions including fund transfers, foreign currency exchanges, trade settlements, payment processing, and collection of local currency funds on behalf of the respondent bank's customers.




What Are the Reporting Requirements for Vostro Accounts?
Banks holding vostro accounts are required to maintain detailed records of transactions, monitor compliance with regulatory obligations, and provide regular reporting to the local regulatory authorities to ensure transparency and prevent money laundering or illegal activities.




Are Vostro Account Balances Insured?
Vostro account balances are generally not insured by deposit insurance schemes since they represent liabilities of the respondent bank held on behalf of the correspondent bank. However, deposit insurance coverage may vary by jurisdiction, so it's important to understand the applicable regulations and safeguards in your specific country.


   The Bottom Line  

A Vostro account is a bank account held by one bank on behalf of another bank, typically in a foreign currency. It allows respondent banks to provide services to their customers in foreign markets, leveraging the local banking infrastructure of the respondent bank. Vostro accounts facilitate international trade, correspondent banking relationships, foreign currency transactions, and access to local banking services.
What Are Voting Shares?  

Voting shares are shares that give the stockholder the right to vote on matters of corporate policymaking. In most instances, a company's common stock represents voting shares. Different classes of shares, such as preferred stock, sometimes do not allow for voting rights.





Key Takeaways

Voting shares give investors a say in how a company’s corporate policy is made, including the election of the board of directors.Voting shares also approve or reject a major corporate action, such as a merger. Companies can offer different classes of shares, some with voting rights and others without voting rights. Google and Berkshire Hathaway are two notable examples of companies that offer voting and non-voting stock. 


   How Voting Shares Work  

The holders of voting shares have the ability to weigh in on decisions about a company’s future direction. For instance, if a company is considering an acquisition offer by another company or a group of investors, the owners of voting shares would be able to cast their vote on the offer.



Shareholders who own voting shares typically receive regular communications from the company regarding matters that would require a vote for the organization to act. The decision to vote or not vote on such issues does not directly affect their ownership of shares or their value. However, there may be subsequent actions that result from the votes that affect the company's market value.


   Special Considerations   

It is not uncommon for so-called activist investors to encourage the owners of voting shares to cast their votes in favor of an action or decision the activist investor wants the company to pursue.



Hostile bids to acquire a company may see the prospective buyers campaign to the holders of voting shares in the hopes of gathering enough support to effect a new direction at the company. This may include a change of the current board of directors, which would allow for further changes at the organization, such as the removal and replacement of executive officers of the company.



If the board of directors agrees to the sale of the company, the approval process for the deal includes a vote among shareholders who own voting shares. The owners of voting shares could reject an offer if they believe the bid does not meet their valuation of the company.


   Types of Voting Shares  

Depending on the types of shares issued, shareholders may have varying levels of voting power. For example, a company may reserve a class of shares for the founders, upper management, and early employees of the company that grants each of them several votes for each share they own. 



Management might issue additional voting shares that carry just one vote per share. Shares that hold no voting power may also be issued.



Such an arrangement would grant a segment of stakeholders greater individual voting power for the decisions that shape the organization. The different types of voting shares might also have a different market value, particularly if new shares are offered through a stock split.


   Example of Voting Shares   

Google is one of the most notable companies with multiple classes of shares. There are shares that trade under the ticker symbol GOOGL, which are Class A shares with voting rights, and there is a class of shares trading under the symbol GOOG, which are Class C shares without voting rights. Google also has non-traded Class B shares. These shares are held by company insiders and carry supervoting privileges—each Google Class B share counts as 10 votes.



Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway also has multiple share classes. The company’s Class A shares trade under the ticker symbol BRK.A and have voting rights. Alternatively, investors can purchase Class B Berkshire shares for a fraction of the cost but with barely any say on how the company is run.
What Is a Voting Trust?  

A voting trust is a legal trust created to combine the voting power of shareholders by temporarily transferring their shares to the trustee. In exchange for their shares, shareholders receive certificates indicating they are beneficiaries of the trust. The trustee is often obligated to vote in accord with the wishes of these participating shareholders.





Key Takeaways

A voting trust is a contract between shareholders in which their shares and voting rights are temporarily transferred to a trustee.A voting agreement is a contract in which shareholders agree to vote a certain way on specific issues without giving up their shares or voting rights.Voting trusts are formed for many reasons, including preventing hostile takeovers, retaining majority control, and resolving conflicts of interest.


   How a Voting Trust Works  

Voting trusts are often formed by company directors, but sometimes a group of shareholders will form one to exercise some control over the corporation. It can also be used to resolve conflicts of interest, increase shareholders' voting power, or ward off a hostile takeover. The trust agreement typically specifies that the beneficiaries will continue to receive dividend payments and any other distributions from the corporation. The laws governing the duration of a trust differ from state to state.



Sometimes, voting trusts are formed from shareholders who do not have a strong interest in the operation of the company. In this case, the trustee may be allowed discretion in exercising voting rights.



In the United States, companies must file voting trust contracts with the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). The contract must detail how the voting trust will be executed and the relationship between the shareholders and the trustee. In addition, the duration of the agreement and any other stipulations will be included.



As an alternative, shareholders may draw up a shareholder voting rights agreement specifying that they will vote as a block. With this type of agreement, the shareholder does not transfer their shares to the trust and therefore remains the shareholder of record.






A voting trust is valid for a maximum period of 10 years, and if all parties agree, it can be extended for another 10 years.


   Voting Trusts Versus Voting Agreements  

Rather than assign voting rights to a trustee, shareholders may collectively form a contract, or voting agreement, to vote a certain way on issues. This agreement, also known as a pooling agreement, allows shareholders to gain or maintain control without giving up their identities as stockholders as with a voting trust. Voting agreements cannot be used between directors, to restrict the discretion of directors, or to buy votes.


   Example of a Voting Trust  

Sometimes, in a merger or acquisition, shareholders of the target company want to retain majority control after the transaction concludes. By forming a voting trust, they come together and vote as one, amplifying their voice better than what could be done without it. However, this measure offers no guarantee that the outcome will match the desires of the trust.
What Is a Voting Trust Agreement?  

A voting trust agreement is a contractual agreement in which shareholders with voting rights transfer their shares to a trustee, in return for a voting trust certificate. This gives the voting trustees temporary control of the corporation.






Details of a voting trust agreement, including the timeframe that it lasts and the specific rights, are laid out in a filing with the SEC.


   How a Voting Trust Agreement Works  

Voting trust agreements are usually operated by the current directors of a company, as a countermeasure to hostile takeovers. But they may also be used to represent a person or group trying to gain control of a company—such as the company's creditors, who may want to reorganize a failing business. Voting trusts are more common in smaller companies, as it is easier to administer them.



Voting trusts are similar to proxy voting, in the sense that shareholders designate someone else to vote for them. But voting trusts operate differently from a proxy. While the proxy may be a temporary or one-time arrangement, often created for a specific vote, the voting trust is usually more permanent, intended to give a bloc of voters increased power as a group—or indeed, control of the company, which is not necessarily the case with proxy voting.


   Requirements for a Voting Trust Agreement  

Voting trust agreements, which have to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), specify how long the agreement lasts for—which is usually for a number of years, or until a certain event happens.



They also outline the rights of the shareholders, such as the ongoing receipt of dividends; procedures in the event of a merger, such as consolidation or dissolution of the company; and the duties and rights of trustees, such as what the votes will be used for. In some voting trusts, the trustee may also be granted additional powers, like the freedom to sell or redeem the shares.



At the end of the trust period, the shares are usually returned to the shareholders, although in practice many voting trusts contain provisions for them to be revested on the voting trusts with identical terms.





Key Takeaways

Voting trust agreements allow shareholders to transfer their voting rights to a trustee, effectively giving temporary control of the corporation to the trustee.Usually found in smaller companies, these agreements are often used to prevent or facilitate takeovers.Unlike proxy voting agreements, voting trust agreements tend to last for a longer duration of time—such as a number of years.
DEFINITION of Voting Trust Certificate  

A voting trust certificate is a document issued by a limited-life trust of a corporation established to give temporary voting control of a corporation to one or a few individuals. A voting trust certificate is issued to a stockholder in exchange for his or her common stock, and represents all of the normal rights of a shareholder (e.g., receiving dividends) except the right to vote. The life of a voting trust certificate in many cases ranges from two to five years, at which point the common stock, with voting rights, is returned to the shareholder.


   BREAKING DOWN Voting Trust Certificate  

A voting trust certificate allows one or a small number of individuals, known as voting trustees, to gain control and make decisions regarding the corporation without interference. A majority of shareholders must accept the voting trust certificates for the voting power arrangement to become effective. The purpose is typically to allow reorganization when a corporation needs to overcome a short-term financial challenge. By handing over control to a group of trustees, a majority of shareholders express confidence that the trustees can more quickly and efficiently execute the changes necessary to rectify a problematic situation that threatens their financial interest in the company. Voting trust certificates are more common among smaller firms than larger ones, as it is easier in terms of administration and practice to issue them to shareholders.


   Terms of a Voting Trust Agreement  

Voting trust agreements must be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The legal document will contain, among other terms, the duration of the agreement; the rights of shareholders (other than voting rights); procedures in the event of a merger, consolidation or dissolution of the company; and duties and rights of trustees. Another term in the contract is trustee compensation, which by standard is normally none, unless the majority of shareholders allows for a nominal amount.
What Is a Voucher?  

A voucher is a document used by a company’s accounts payable department to gather and file all of the supporting documents needed to approve the payment of a liability. Governments may also issue vouchers redeemable for various programs such as for school choice, housing, or social welfare initiatives.



A voucher may also refer to a document, such as a coupon or ticket, that is redeemable for some good or service. This is prominent in the hospitality industry. For instance, airlines, hotels, and restaurants may issue vouchers that can be exchanged from rooms, flights, or fares.





Key Takeaways

A voucher is a document used by a company’s accounts payable department containing the supporting documents for an invoice.A voucher is essentially the backup documents for accounts payable, which are bills owed by companies to vendors and suppliers.Documents in a voucher can include the supplier's invoice, amount owed, due date, general ledger accounts, and shipping receipts.All of the amounts of outstanding vouchers owed are totaled, and the one lump sum is recorded as accounts payable on the balance sheet.Vouchers are also used by governments and private businesses, which are then redeemable for various goods or services.


   Understanding Vouchers  

A voucher is essentially the backup document for accounts payable. Accounts payable are the short-term bills owed by companies to vendors and suppliers.



The voucher is important because it's an internal accounting control mechanism that ensures that every payment is properly authorized and that the goods or services purchased are actually received.



Companies have various short-term financial obligations to suppliers and vendors throughout an accounting period. A company might need to buy inventory or raw materials from suppliers that are used in the production of the company's goods. The suppliers essentially grant an extension of credit to the company allowing for payment to be made in the near future such as 30, 60, or 90 days.



A voucher is a form that includes all of the supporting documents showing the money owed and any payments to a supplier or vendor for an outstanding payable. The voucher and the necessary documents are recorded in the voucher register.


   Requirements of a Voucher  

Some of the supporting documents in a voucher can include:



Invoice from the supplier
Vendor or supplier name to be paid
Terms for payment such as the amount owed, the due date, and any discounts granted by the supplier for paying the invoice early
The company's purchase order
Receipt showing that goods were received by the company from the supplier
The general ledger accounts to be used for accounting purposes
Signatures from authorized representatives at the company for the purchase and payment
Proof of payment and date once the invoice to the supplier has been paid






Vouchers often contain expiration dates in addition to various terms, conditions, and restrictions. Be sure to understand these in order to redeem them successfully.


   Special Considerations  

The total amount of all the vouchers that have outstanding balances owed are recorded as accounts payable on the balance sheet. Once the voucher has been paid, the proof of payment is included in the voucher and recorded as a paid voucher.



The company’s vouchers serve as a key source of evidence when an audit is performed. An auditor performs a set of procedures to determine if the financial statements are free of material misstatement. Vouchers document that the goods purchased were actually received, which supports the auditor’s assertion that the goods and services posted to the financial statements truly exist.



Vouchers also justify the firm’s cash payments to vendors and document the general ledger accounts used to post the transaction.



Using a voucher system also reduces the risk of employees colluding to steal company assets. Businesses employ segregation of duties to prevent employee theft, which means that critical tasks are assigned to different people within the organization. The voucher documents that the tasks are performed by multiple people and creates a paper trail so that an auditor can confirm that the duties were properly segregated.


   Example of a Voucher  

A local restaurant orders meat and fish every few days from its vendors. The restaurant manager fills out a purchase order for 30 pounds of meat, and the owner initials the purchase order to approve the shipment. When the shipment is received, the contents of the shipment are compared with the purchase order to ensure that the shipment matches what was ordered. The restaurant completes a shipping receipt to document the process, and the shipping receipt is compared with the vendor’s invoice.



The voucher, which is a cover page that explains the attached documents, includes the purchase order, shipping receipt, and the invoice. The purchase amount is added and recorded to accounts payable on the balance sheet until paid. The owner reviews all the voucher information before signing a check.



The voucher also includes the general ledger accounts used to record the transaction. The restaurant, for example, can debit the meat inventory account and credit the cash account to record the payment. The receipt of payment and the date is recorded to show that the voucher has been paid. Accounts payable will reflect the lower balance due to the invoice being paid, assuming there are no additional payables generated.




Why Is a Voucher Important?
The importance of a voucher lies in the fact that it is an internal accounting control mechanism that ensures that every payment is properly authorized and that the purchased item is actually received.




How Are Vouchers Helpful?
Vouchers are critical when an audit is done. They serve as a key source of evidence as they document that the goods and services posted to the financial statements truly exist. They also corroborate the firm’s cash payments to outside parties, such as vendors. Additionally, vouchers also act as a check-and-balance tool and reduce the risk of employee theft.




What Is Included in a Voucher?
A voucher typically includes all of the supporting documents showing the money owed and any payments made for an outstanding payable. Some of the common documents are supplier invoice, supplier name, terms for payment such as the amount owed, the due date, and any discounts for paying the invoice early, company's purchase order, receipt of goods received, general ledger accounts, signatures of authorized representatives, proof of payment of invoice and date of payment.




What is a section 8 housing voucher?
The Housing Choice Voucher Program, also known as Section 8 housing, is a federal program that helps low-income or disabled families obtain affordable private housing. Eligible families can use their vouchers toward any sort of home and are not limited to subsidized housing projects or apartment units.




What is a school voucher?
A school voucher gives eligible families the right to choose a private or charter school, using a portion of state funding otherwise set aside for public schools.
What Is a Voucher Check?  

A voucher check is a combination of a check and a voucher, also known as "remittance advice," which includes pertinent information about the parties to the transaction and thus creates an auditable paper trail about that check's payment.





Key Takeaways

A voucher check is a form of official payment that creates an audit trail about that check's payment details.Voucher checks have three parts: the check, a voucher for the payee, and a voucher for the issuer. Before computerized payroll, these would come in the form of three perforated items from a standardized paper sheet.Voucher checks are commonly used by a company's payroll department and may be referred to as payroll checks in that context.


   Understanding Voucher Checks  

The voucher check creates a paper trail for the payment by the issuer of the check. The recipient of the voucher check detaches one voucher part and retains it for record-keeping before cashing the check. The issuer retains the other voucher portion.



Voucher checks that are used in computerized accounting systems have three parts that together fit on standard-sized sheets of paper for ease of use in printers. The checks are usually business sized—longer than a standard check but with the same width. One part is the check and the other two parts are the vouchers for the payee and issuer for their respective records. Perforations make the different sections easy to separate.



A voucher is a document used by a company’s accounts payable department to gather and file all of the supporting documents needed to approve and track the payment of a liability. A voucher is essentially the backup documents for accounts payable, invoicing, or payroll. (Accounts payable are the short-term bills owed by companies to vendors and suppliers.) The voucher is important because it is an internal accounting control mechanism that ensures that every payment is properly authorized and that the goods or services purchased are actually received.


   Who Uses Voucher Checks?  

Voucher checks are commonly used by a company's payroll department and are referred to as payroll checks. The voucher will contain a voucher number, name of the payee, date, amount (gross and net if any deductions), signatures, and any memo notes that need to be recorded. For payroll, even though direct deposit is increasingly becoming the norm for paying employees, having a paper trail back-up is a common practice.



Vendors also use voucher checks. In this instance, a voucher check is issued when an invoice is matched with a purchase order and documentation that the order was filled. In addition, for the accounts payable department, having a file of voucher records of payments to vendors is helpful in resolving payment disputes and in preparing books for internal month-end closings.
What Is a Voyage Policy?  

A voyage policy is marine insurance coverage for risks to a ship's cargo during a specific voyage. Unlike most insurance policies it is not time-based but expires when the ship arrives at its destination. It covers only the cargo, not the ship that carries it.



A voyage policy is also known as marine cargo insurance.


   Understanding a Voyage Policy  

Voyage policies are commonly used by exporters who need marine shipping only occasionally or for relatively small amounts of cargo. Large exporters who ship by sea routinely tend to prefer open cover marine insurance, which covers all cargo shipped by the policyholder for a specified time period.






A voyage policy is in effect only while the ship is at sea; additional insurance is needed to cover losses during loading and unloading of cargo.



A voyage policy covers unforeseen risks but not preventable risks. For a voyage policy to be valid, the vessel transporting the cargo must be in good condition and capable of making the journey, and the vessel's crew must be competent.



Voyage policies generally cover against accidental damage and collisions as well as natural disasters. Losses due to delays may be covered as well. Voyage policies may specifically exclude losses caused by willful misconduct, ordinary leakage, ordinary wear and tear, improper or inadequate packaging, and labor strikes. Acts of war and terrorist activity also are usually excluded.



The policyholder may need to purchase additional insurance to cover the cargo during the entire transport process as voyage policies typically exclude losses that occur during the loading and unloading of the cargo.





Key Takeaways

A voyage policy, or marine cargo insurance, covers losses incurred to a ship's contents during a journey.A voyage policy is used mainly by exporters who need to ship only occasionally or only in small amounts of cargo.Exporters who ship routinely generally use open cover marine insurance.



The policy is in place for the duration of the voyage, however long it takes. If there are unanticipated delays en route, the coverage remains in place. This allows for factors such as inclement weather at sea or a shortage of docking at the destination port.



Because each policy is specific to a particular cargo and voyage, all details of both are recorded in the policy contract.
What Is a Vulture Capitalist?  

A vulture capitalist is an investor who seeks to extract value from companies in decline. The goal is to swoop in when sentiment is low–and the company is trading at a rock bottom price–and take whatever action is necessary to engineer a quick turnaround and sell it on for a profit.





Key Takeaways

A vulture capitalist is an investor who purchases troubled companies whose prices have been severely depressed in the market.Aggressive action is taken to revive the company and boost profits, usually via hefty cost-cutting exercises like job layoffs.If they don't succeed in this goal, vulture capitalists will find other ways to line their pockets, such as engaging in asset stripping to make money.


   Understanding Vulture Capitalists  

A vulture capitalist is a type of venture capitalist (VC) who looks for opportunities to make money by buying poor or distressed firms. Just like the bird they are named after, vulture capitalists are predatory in nature. They will wait until they see the right opportunity and swoop in at the last minute, buying stakes at the lowest possible price.  






Most vulture capitalists will buy companies at a very low price to maximize the potential of higher returns and minimize the risk of walking away empty-handed.



Vulture capitalists get cheap deals by targeting companies that financial institutions (FIs) do not want to lend money to. After failing to obtain credit or funds from banks and/or other investors, the struggling company often has no choice but to accept whatever help is on offer.



Once onboard, the vulture capitalist will piece together aggressive financial goals. They start out by attempting to revive the business, cutting costs wherever possible to boost profits. If they don't succeed in this goal, vulture capitalists will often resort to selling off assets such as land, buildings, and machinery.



Regardless of the outcome, vulture capitalists almost always find ways to squeeze money out of their investments. That remains the case, even if the company a vulture capitalist acquires eventually ends up filing for bankruptcy.


   Vulture Capitalist vs. Venture Capitalist (VC)  

The way that vulture capitalists and venture capitalists (VCs) operate and choose to invest their money varies considerably.



Rather than prey on the weak and immediately identify ways to cut costs, VCs are more interested in providing capital to startups displaying early success. VCs also provide funding to companies unable to secure financing elsewhere; the primary difference between vulture capitalists and VCs is that the success of a VCs investments hinges on the targeted companies excelling and living up to their potential.



VCs aim to nurse nascent companies and set them on a path to one day become large-cap companies. Vulture capitalists also hope their investments turn a corner–albeit with a more short-term focus. At the same time, vulture capitalists explore ways to profit from the demise of the companies they invest in.


   Criticism of Vulture Capitalists  

Vulture capitalists are regularly talked about negatively. Critics attack them for stripping companies down to the bone in order to line their own pockets, for aggressively laying off staff, and for lending money at very high interest rates to companies that they should instead be trying to help.



Often, vulture capitalists will go to great lengths to make money off their investments, even if it means boosting unemployment and driving a company into the ground. 



Some pundits have hit back against the criticism being dished out at vulture capitalists, arguing that they are important for the economy. Vulture capitalists, they say, actually manage to revive a lot of firms–and even governments–that appeared to be beyond saving.






Vulture capitalists forced Argentina into bankruptcy, although some have applauded Paul Singer and his hedge fund for their harsh penalties, claiming that it forced the country to get its act together.



When this isn't the case, proponents claim that vulture capitalists are at least instrumental in reallocating resources in the economy. They take people and resources out of companies where they are not being utilized properly, enabling them to be put to better use elsewhere.



Without vulture capitalists, some pundits argue that more businesses would have to be bailed out at the expense of taxpayers.


   Example of a Vulture Capitalist  

Although vulture capitalism has been part of American culture for a long time, the term came into the spotlight during the Republican primaries leading up to the 2012 general election. 



During the primaries, Mitt Romney said he was the best candidate to lead the party to the presidency because of his time at Bain Capital, a private equity firm he helped co-found in 1984. During several debates, he stated that he helped rebuild companies that were struggling and, in turn, helped create jobs. He promised to do the same thing for the U.S. that he said he did for Bain Capital, citing his track record for building businesses, creating jobs, and boosting the economy. 



Unfortunately, his opponents did not see it the same way. While Romney called himself a venture capitalist who helped companies in trouble, they said he did nothing but prey on businesses and the people who worked for them. Rick Perry, Newt Gingrich, and Ron Paul all took shots at Romney, who claimed Bain Capital put people out of work in order to boost its own profits.



In the end, Romney succeeded in becoming the Republican nominee. However, he eventually lost to Barack Obama, who went on to lead the country in his second term as president.
What Is a Vulture Fund?  

A vulture fund is an investment fund that seeks out and buys securities in distressed investments, such as high-yield bonds in or near default, or equities that are in or near bankruptcy. The goal is to 'swoop in' and pick up underpriced shares that are perceived to have been oversold to make high-risk but potentially high-reward bets.





Key Takeaways

A vulture fund invests in assets whose prices have been severely depressed in the market.The goal is to identify assets that have been irrationally oversold below fundamental value, or where a positive turnaround is predicted.This high-risk, potentially high-reward strategy has been employed to accumulate distressed assets that typical portfolio managers would avoid.


   Understanding Vulture Funds  

Vulture funds take extreme bets on distressed debt and high-yield investing, also deploying legal actions in their management strategies to obtain contracted payouts. These funds are typically managed by hedge funds using various types of alternative strategies to obtain profits for their investors.



To achieve the strategy, portfolio managers seek deeply discounted investments with high potential rates of return due to the high default risks. Generally, investments are focused on fixed income instruments such as high yield bonds and loans that pay fixed or variable interest rates. Oftentimes, the investments will be in government debt of distressed countries, which requires even greater lobbyist involvement in resolving unpaid debts.



A number of legacy cases involving hedge funds and sovereign debt highlight the processes and procedures that vulture funds undergo to receive payouts for invested assets.


   Argentina’s Debt Crisis  

After 15 years of negotiations ending in February 2016, Argentina agreed to repay six vulture funds that had invested in the country's debt. Leading hedge funds involved included Elliott Management’s NML Capital unit and Aurelius Capital Management. The final payout on the debt to the bondholders was negotiated at $6.5 billion.


   Puerto Rico’s Debt Crisis  

A similar situation emerged in Puerto Rico, facing acute budgetary crises in 2006-2007 and from 2013-2016 when the U.S. territory has filed for bankruptcy. The country owed as much as $120 billion in bond and pension debt to its creditors, which included U.S. mutual funds and hedge fund managers. Leading fund managers seeking repayment included Oppenheimer, Franklin, and Aurelius Capital Management.



As a result, the e Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA), was enacted in 2016 to restructure the territory's debts and adjust its budget. Most of Puerto Rico's debts incurred in the 2010s are undergoing one of the largest restructurings of public debt in U.S. history, with vulture funds having played a prominent role in the debt restructuring.


   Vulture Fund Investments  

While Argentina and Puerto Rico are extreme cases, they highlight some of the investments made by vulture funds resulting in substantial gains. In addition to government debt, real estate properties and highly leveraged firms are also top investments for vulture funds. These funds are often willing to patiently wait for payouts resulting in substantial returns.



Vulture funds use alternative investing strategies, seeking bargain discount prices with substantial expected returns. Some people have looked down upon investment companies that operate like vulture funds, since they prey on the cheap debt of struggling investments, forcing companies to make payouts plus interest.



Overall, vulture funds and vulture fund management are not typically for the risk-averse. Across the U.S. there are several investment managers who engage in this type of investing. Some of the most popular include Autonomy Capital, Canyon Capital, Monarch Alternative Capital, and Aurelius Capital Management.


   Vulture Capitalists  

A vulture capitalist is a type of venture capitalist who specifically looks for opportunities to make money by buying poor or distressed firms. They are also known for taking control over someone else's innovations and, as a result, the money that person would have acquired from those innovations.



The term is slang for someone who is an aggressive venture capitalist, and as such is believed to be predatory in their nature. Just like the bird they are named after, vulture capitalists will wait until they see the right opportunity and swoop in at the last minute, taking advantage of a situation with the lowest possible price.  



Vulture capitalists are often criticized for their aggressive behavior because they are seen as preying on the companies they buy in order to make a profit. They are called out because they will seek out the most distressed companies at really low prices. They will go to great lengths in order to keep their costs down so as to make the most profit. A venture capitalist may look first at cutting down staff, which can lead to unemployment and cause a ripple effect in the economy.
What is a VWAP Cross  

A VWAP cross is a trading indicator that occurs when a security’s price crosses the volume-weighted average price (VWAP).


   Breaking Down VWAP Cross  

A VWAP cross requires a trader to closely follow a security’s current price and its volume-weighted average price (VWAP).


   VWAP Cross Charting  

Technical systems can typically be programmed to chart a security’s market price and VWAP through candlestick patterns and trendlines drawn on a technical chart. When a security’s price crosses a VWAP trendline then a VWAP cross signal occurs.



Traders typically consider VWAP trendlines similar to resistance and support trendlines. In a VWAP charting pattern, a VWAP trendline is a single trendline charted on a candlestick chart.



This price pattern focuses on the movement of the VWAP. For a trader using a VWAP trendline, it is important to understand the VWAP’s calculation.



﻿















VWAP


=




Security Shares Bought


×


Security Share Price




Security Shares Bought










\begin{aligned} &\text{VWAP} = \frac{ \text{Security Shares Bought} \times \text{Security Share Price} }{ \text{Security Shares Bought} } \\ \end{aligned}


​VWAP=Security Shares BoughtSecurity Shares Bought×Security Share Price​​﻿



VWAP is a moving average trendline that allows a trader to visually chart the affects of a security’s volume in comparison to its price. The VWAP calculation is centered around the volume a security is experiencing from day to day. Other potential volume variables that may be used in conjunction with VWAP include the Positive Volume Index and the Negative Volume Index.


   VWAP Cross Signal Indicators  

VWAP is a trendline that has two influencing factors: volume and price. Thus, several scenarios can occur from changes in volume and price. Generally VWAP can be a useful trendline to include on a trader’s candlestick chart. VWAP may be trending above or below a security’s candlestick pattern.



Inferences from the variables in VWAP are primary drivers of buy and sell signals for traders. The immediate affects of drastic volume and price changes that can be seen from following VWAP, make the VWAP trendline a popular trendline for traders to follow. If a security's price is trending below its support level, a rapid increase in volume and price simultaneously will cause the VWAP trendline to spike significantly, crossing over the security’s current price. This can create a potential bullish buy signal. Adversely, if VWAP has been high and spikes to the downside it can be a bearish sell signal indicating that the security is expected to trend lower following the cross pattern. Using a VWAP trendline and VWAP cross can help a technical analyst to detect price movement in securities that may not yet be fully factored into the security’s short-term or long-term price.
What Is Cboe Nasdaq Volatility Index (VXN)?  

The Cboe Nasdaq Volatility Index (VXN) is a measure of market expectations of 30-day volatility for the Nasdaq 100 index, as implied by the prices of options listed on this index. The Cboe Global Markets (Cboe) launched the VXN in January 2001.





Key Takeaways

The Cboe Nasdaq Volatility Index (VXN) is a real-time market index representing the market's expectations for volatility in the Nasdaq 100 index over the coming 30 days.The VXN was created as a counterpart to the VIX, which measures S&P 500 volatility since the tech-heavy Nasdaq often diverges from the broader market.The VXN, like the VIX, is computed using the implied volatilities of options listed on the Nasdaq 100 index and functions best as a “fear gauge” or indicator of market nervousness about the technology sector.


   Understanding Cboe Nasdaq Volatility Index (VXN)  

The VXN index is a widely watched gauge of market sentiment and volatility for the Nasdaq-100, which includes the top 100 U.S. and international non-financial securities by market capitalization listed on the Nasdaq. The VXN is quoted in percentage terms, just like its better-known counterpart the Cboe Volatility Index (VIX), which measures 30-day implied volatility for the S&P 500 index.



The Cboe Nasdaq Volatility Index was introduced in 2001 as the dot-com bubble in technology stocks was deflating. Cboe developed the VXN because of the massive divergence between the volatility seen in the Nasdaq market compared to the broader U.S. equity market from early 1999 onward.



Indeed, the Nasdaq soared 157% in a 15-month period from January 1999 to its peak level of 5,048 on March 10, 2000, before plunging 52% to below 2,500 by December 20, 2000. The S&P 500, by comparison, only gained 21% from January 1999 to its March 24, 2000 peak, and then declined back down 18% by the end of 2000.



The higher the VXN level, the greater the expectation for Nasdaq-100 volatility. Like the VIX, the VXN functions best as a “fear gauge” or indicator of market nervousness about the technology sector.



Since its introduction, the highest level reached by the VXN was 71.72 in September 2001, brought on by the 9/11 attack. Other notable peaks include 79.16 in October 2008, at the height of the global financial crisis, and 80.08 in March 2020, as the world reeled under the global economic shutdown. The 2020 crisis-induced VXN spike proved to be short-lived as the gauge returned to levels in the 30s. On the flip side, the lowest level was 10.31 in March 2017.


   VXN Methodology and Interpretation  

The methodology used by the Cboe to calculate the VXN—whose value it disseminates continuously during trading hours—is identical to that used for the VIX. VXN components are near-term (with at least one week to expiration) put and call options, and next-term options in the first and second Nasdaq-100 contract months (options with more than 23 days and less than 37 days to expiration). The selected options are out-of-the-money Nasdaq-100 puts and calls centered on an at-the-money strike price.



Movement in the VXN represents the level of implied volatility from the prices of listed options on the Nasdaq 100 index. Increases in the VXN and positive movement represent higher variances in the underlying securities’ price from their average. This usually occurs with uncertainty.



Decreases in the VXN and negative movement represents lower volatility and a greater propensity for prices to trade in a tighter range. The VXN is generally followed along with the Nasdaq 100 to understand volatility in relation to positive or negative movements in the prices of the index.
