What Are H-Shares?  

H-shares are shares of Chinese mainland companies that are listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange or other foreign exchange. Although H-shares are regulated by Chinese law, they are denominated in Hong Kong dollars and are traded in the same way as other equities on the Hong Kong exchange. H-shares are available for more than 230 Chinese companies giving investors access to most of the major economic sectors, such as financials, industrials, and utilities.


   Understanding H-Shares  

After 2007, China began to allow mainland Chinese investors to purchase A-shares or H-shares of companies listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. Before that, Chinese investors could only purchase A-shares although H-shares were also offered to foreign investors. Because foreign investors may trade H-shares, the shares are more liquid than A-shares. As a result, A-shares typically trade at a premium to H-shares of the same company.


   Differences Between A-Shares and H-Shares  

A-shares are offered by public Chinese companies trading on the Shenzhen and Shanghai Stock Exchanges or other Chinese stock exchanges. A-shares are typically quoted in Chinese renminbi and traded by mainland Chinese citizens. Foreign investment in these businesses is regulated through the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor system. In contrast, public Chinese companies offering H-shares are listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. In addition, H-shares are quoted in Hong Kong dollars and freely traded by all types of investors.


   Regulation of H-Shares  

Companies offering H-shares must follow the regulations described in the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong’s (SEHK) Listing Rules for the Main Board and for the Growth Enterprise Market (GEM). The rules state that annual accounts must follow Hong Kong or international accounting standards. A company’s articles of incorporation must include sections clarifying the varying nature of domestic shares and foreign shares including H-shares. The articles must also state the rights given to each purchaser. The sections protecting investors must follow the laws of Hong Kong and be included in the company’s constitutional documents. Otherwise, the processes of listing and trading H-shares are similar to those of other stocks in Hong Kong.


   Stock Connect Between Shanghai and Hong Kong Stock Exchanges  

In November 2014, the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect linked the stock exchanges of Shanghai and Hong Kong. Rules limiting which types of investors may purchase A-shares and H-shares were modified to diversify the assets of Chinese investors, increase efficiencies for trading in Chinese stocks and include Chinese companies in global benchmark stock indices. Because the stock market in China was unified, it became one of the largest stock exchanges worldwide according to market cap and daily trading turnover.


   Example of H-Shares  

In July 2016, Fullerton Financial Holdings Pte Ltd., a unit of Temasek Holdings (Private) Ltd., sold 555 million H-shares in China Construction Bank Corporation as part of regular investment portfolio adjustments. As a result, Fullerton and ST Asset Management Ltd., also a unit of Temasek, reduced their H-shares from 5.03% to 4.81%.
What Is the Haas School of Business?  

The Haas School of Business is the business school of the University of California at Berkeley. Founded in 1898 and located in Berkeley, California, the school offers both undergraduate and graduate programs.



The Haas School of Business has the distinction of being the oldest American business school to be founded at a public university.﻿﻿ It is also known for its high quality of instruction; it is frequently ranked as among the top 10 best business schools in the world.





Key Takeaways

Haas School of Business is a business school located at the University of California at Berkeley.Its Master of Business Administration (MBA) program is consistently ranked among the top 10 programs in the United States.In recent years, Haas School of Business’s MBA graduates have pursued careers principally in the management consulting, financial services, and consulting sectors.


   Understanding the Haas School of Business  

Previously known as the University of California’s College of Commerce, the Haas School of Business received its current name in 1989, following a nearly-$25 million gift by the businessman and philanthropist, Walter A. Haas Jr. Today, Haas School of Business is home to about 2,500 students spread across their undergraduate and graduate programs, as well as over 240 faculty members.﻿﻿



The Haas School of Business’s programs includes undergraduate majors in core business school subjects such as finance, accounting, and marketing; as well as specialized undergraduate programs in entrepreneurship, international business, and even the intersection of business and biology. In this respect, the Haas School of Business is able to leverage its affiliation with the University of California at Berkeley—a world-famous research university that has produced 37 Nobel prizes, of which 7 are held by current faculty.﻿﻿



At the graduate level, the Haas School of Business offers a range of MBA and postgraduate programs. The school’s class of 2022 full-time MBA cohort is made up of 331 students, 39% of whom are female.﻿﻿ In addition to the full-time MBA program, which lasts 21 months, the school also offers a variety of MBA programs designed for students who wish to study on a part-time basis while continuing to work in their careers. This includes a three-year evening and weekend MBA option, as well as an Executive MBA program (which lasts 19 months).﻿﻿


   Example of the Haas School of Business  

For 2021, the Haas School of Business’s full-time MBA program was rated as the 7th-best program in the United States by US News and The Economist, and it was rated as the country's 8th (12th globally) by the Financial Times.



With annual tuition of roughly $60,000, Haas School of Business MBA grads saw a median starting salary of approximately $140,000 in 2020, of which just under 90% received their offers within 3 months of graduation. In recent years, these grads have found employment principally in the technology, management consulting, and financial services sectors.﻿﻿
What Is a Habendum Clause?  

A habendum clause is a section of a contract that deals with property rights, interests, and other aspects of ownership given to one of the parties to a deal. Consisting of basic legal language, it is usually included in property-related documents.



Most buyers and sellers have experience with it through real estate transfers, but it is also used in all manner of leases and deeds, especially in the oil and gas industry.





key takeaways

A habendum clause is section of a contract that deals with rights, interests, and other aspects of ownership given to one of the parties in land deals.In real estate leases, the habendum clause deals with the lessee's rights and interests.In real estate purchase contracts, the habendum clauses deals with the transfer of ownership, usually (but not always) without restriction.In oil and gas contracts, the habendum clause sets out the primary term during which a company holds the mineral rights to the land but is not obligated to start exploration.


   Understanding a Habendum Clause  

The content of a habendum clause varies depending on the exact nature of the contract. In real estate contracts, the habendum clause refers to the transfer of ownership of a property and any accompanying restrictions. Because the clause begins with the phrase, "To have and to hold," the habendum clause is sometimes called the "to have and to hold clause."



In oil and gas leases, the habendum clause defines the primary term and secondary term of the lease, dictating how long the lease is in force. When used in the context of oil and gas leases, the focus of the habendum clause is on the "and so long thereafter" portion that extends the lease if conditions are met. In the oil and gas industry, the habendum clause is also referred to as the "term clause."


   Habendum Clauses in Real Estate  

In real estate leases, habendum clauses are a section of the contract that describes the rights and interests given to the lessee.



For outright real estate purchases, a habendum clause deals with the transfer of ownership of a property and any accompanying restrictions. Usually, the habendum clause states the property is transferred without restrictions. This means the new owner has absolute ownership of the property upon satisfying their conditions (usually payment in full) and has the right to sell or bequeath the property to an heir and so on.



The type of property title transferred using a habendum clause is called "fee simple absolute." A fee simple absolute grants complete ownership of a property, subject to government laws and powers.






Because it typically begins with the phrase, "To have and to hold," the habendum clause is sometimes called the "to have and to hold clause."



Some real estate transfers will include restrictions within the habendum clause. For example, a timeshare lease will outline the percentage of ownership being transferred and any other related restrictions.



Sometimes the property or the land itself is subject to a countdown, upon which ownership reverts to another entity. Some treaty lands allow development but cap the transfer of ownership at 100 years, for example. This makes any property on those lands attractive in the first half of the lease, but the value is discounted as the time of ownership counts down to the deadline. Similarly, some leases can be tied to the lifespan of the lessee, with the property reverting to the original owner upon the buyer's death.


   Habendum Clauses and Oil/Gas Leases  

In the oil and gas sector, the habendum clause sets out the primary term during which a company holds mineral rights to the land but is not obligated to start exploration. The primary term can vary from one to ten years depending on how proven a given field is. If the primary term passes without any production, then the lease expires. However, if the leased area is drilled and oil or gas is flowing—that is, the lease is in production—the secondary term begins and continues as long as the leased area is still producing.



In this context, the habendum clause allows the lessor to sell the lease again if the lessee doesn't start production within the primary term, but also protects the lessee if they invest in the land and are producing.
What Is Hacktivism?  

Hacktivism is a social or political activist act that is carried out by breaking into and wreaking havoc on a secure computer system. Hacktivism is a mix of “hacking” and “activism” and is said to have been coined by the hacktivist group Cult of the Dead Cow.





Key Takeaways

Hacktivism involves breaking into a computer system and making changes that affect a person or organization.Targets range from religious organizations to drug dealers and pedophiles.Some activists, such as Occupy Wall Street and the Church of Scientology protestors, use hacktivism in addition to in-person protests.Hacktivists use a wide range of techniques to work towards their goals including doxing, denial of service attacks (DoS), anonymous blogging, information leaks, and website replication.Hacktivism’s goals include circumventing government censorship by helping citizens get around national firewalls (or helping protestors organize) and using social media platforms to promote human rights.Some of the most widely known hacktivist groups include Anonymous, Legion of Doom (LOD), Masters of Deception (MOD), and Chaos Computer Club. 


   Understanding Hacktivism  

Hacktivism is usually directed at corporate or government targets. The people or groups that carry out hacktivism are referred to as hacktivists. Hacktivists’ targets include religious organizations, terrorists, drug dealers, and pedophiles.



An example of hacktivism is a denial of service attack (DoS) which shuts down a system to prevent customer access. Other examples involve providing citizens with access to government-censored web pages or providing privacy-protected means of communication to threatened groups (such as Syrians during the Arab Spring).



Hacktivists’ methods may include distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks, which flood a website or email address with so much traffic that it temporarily shuts down; data theft; website defacement; computer viruses and worms that spread protest messages; taking over social media accounts, and stealing and disclosing sensitive data.



There is disagreement within the hacktivist community over which techniques are appropriate and which are not. For example, while hacktivists may claim supporting free speech as an important cause, the use of DoS attacks, website defacements, and data theft that hinder or prevent free speech may be at odds with that goal.



The methods hacktivists use are illegal and are a form of cybercrime. Yet they often are not prosecuted because they are rarely investigated by law enforcement. It can be difficult for law enforcement to identify the hackers and damages that ensue tend to be minor.



Hacktivist attacks themselves are not violent and don’t put protestors at risk of physical harm, unlike participating in a street protest, but hacktivism might incite violence in some cases.



Hacktivism also makes it possible to support geographically distant causes without having to travel there and allows geographically dispersed people with common goals to unite and act in support of a shared goal.






Hacktivism may be used as a substitute for or complement to traditional forms of activism such as sit-ins and protest marches. Occupy Wall Street and the Church of Scientology protests involved both the physical presence of supporters in the streets and online attacks.


   Types of Hacktivism  

Hacktivists use a wide range of tools and techniques to work towards their goals. They can include actions like:



Doxing: In this method, hacktivists gather sensitive information about a specific person or organization and make it public.Blogging anonymously: This tactic is primarily used by whistleblowers, journalists, and activists to bring light to a specific issue while maintaining privacy.DoS and DDoS attacks: This tactic aims to flood targeted computer systems or networks to prevent users from accessing them.Information leaks: In this tactic, an insider source with access to sensitive or classified information (that implicates a specific individual or organization) makes it public.Website replication: This method seeks to mirror a legitimate website, using a slightly different URL, to circumvent censorship rules.


   Hacktivism Goals  

Hacktivism’s goals include the following: 



Circumventing government censorship by helping citizens get around national firewalls or helping protestors to organize online
Using social media platforms to promote human rights or help censored citizens of oppressive regimes communicate with the outside world
Taking down government websites that pose a danger to politically active citizens
Protecting free speech online
Promoting access to information
Supporting citizen uprisings
Assisting computer users in protecting their privacy and avoiding surveillance through secure and anonymous networks such as Tor and the Signal messaging app
Disrupting corporate or government power
Helping illegal immigrants cross borders safely
Supporting democracy
Protesting globalization and capitalism
Protesting acts of war
Halting the financing of terrorism.


   Hacktivist Groups  

While there are thousands of hacktivist groups worldwide, some of the better-known from the 1990s to the present day include Cult of the Dead Cow, Hacktivismo, Lulz Security (Lulz Sec), Anonymous, Legion of Doom, The Electronic Disturbance Theater, Young Intelligent Hackers Against Terrorism, Syrian Electronic Army, and AnonGhost.



Let's take a brief look at some of the major hacktivist groups.


  Anonymous  

Anonymous is quite possibly the most iconic and well-known hacktivist group, widely recognized for its cyber-attacks against governments and government institutions, large corporations, and even the Church of Scientology.


  Legion of Doom (LOD)  

Created in 1984, Legion of Doom grew to be one of the most influential hacking groups in technological history. The group is best known for publishing the Hacker Manifesto, often cited as the inspiration for a flood of new hackers.


  Masters of Deception (MOD)  

Based out of New York, the Masters of Deception (MOD) is best known for hacking into and exploiting a large number of telephone companies. All members were eventually indicted in 1992 in federal court.


  Chaos Computer Club  

With roughly 5,500 registered members, Chaos Computer Club is Europe's largest association of hackers. Generally speaking, Chaos Computer Club advocates for government transparency and freedom of information.


   How to Prevent Hacktivism  

In order to prevent hacktivism, consider some of the following steps:



List and identify all sensitive/critical information in your environmentPerform an audit of your environment on a regular basisImplement multi-factor authentication systems for log-in websitesInvest in security software or even a firewallEducate all staff and contractors/vendors on the correct storage, management, and deletion of dataImplement response procedures and policies in the case of an actual attack


   Real-World Example of Hacktivism  

One of the most well-known examples of hacktivism in real life is when Julian Assange, founder of the infamous WikiLeaks, leaked a collection of emails between Hillary Clinton and her campaign manager.



The emails were said to have come from a group of Russian hackers whose objective was to tilt the election in Donald Trump's favor.



The leaked emails negatively impacted the Clinton campaign, with many blaming her loss largely on the incident. The Department of Justice ultimately indicted 12 Russian hackers for the email hacks.



WikiLeaks' general purpose is the defense of freedom of speech and media publishing, the improvement of our historical record, and the support of peoples' right to create new history.
What Is to Haggle?  

To haggle is when two parties involved in a transaction such as the purchase of a good and service negotiate the price until both parties can mutually agree on a fair price. The process of haggling involves two parties making sequential offers and counteroffers to each other until a price is agreed upon. The individual trying to buy the good and service is trying to pay the least amount possible, while the seller's primary objective is to maximize the selling price. Haggling also may go by the names bargaining, quibbling, dickering, or informal negotiating.



The act of haggling has been around since ancient times and continues to this day. It is a common practice in real estate negotiations, car purchases, and at informal flea markets—while it is rarely used in retail settings such as at supermarkets, pharmacies, or brand-name clothing stores.





Key Takeaways

To haggle is to negotiate over the price of a good or service until a mutually-agreed-upon price has been determined.Haggling is a technique that involves two or more parties making sequential offers and counteroffers until an agreement is made.Haggling is an ancient tradition still used today in real estate deals, car purchases, flea markets, and garage sales; it is not used at other retail settings, such as supermarkets or brand-name sellers.


   Understanding Haggle  

Not all transactions are open to bargaining. Both religious beliefs and regional customs may determine whether or not the seller is willing to engage in bargaining. Globally, haggling has different accepted levels of tolerance. In Europe and North America, haggling is generally accepted for larger ticket items like automobiles, jewelry, and real estate—but not for smaller day-to-day items like combs or a gallon of milk.



However, in other regions around the world, haggling for smaller items is generally accepted and is part of the culture. In these regions, children are taught to haggle at a young age to ensure that they are receiving the best-perceived deal when making any type of purchase.



The acceptance of haggling can also be determined by location. In department and grocery stores, haggling is often expressly prohibited, but at places like flea markets, outdoor marketplaces, and bazaars, haggling is accepted and encouraged. Many consider haggling to be an art and a skill of persuasion rather than a rational economic activity.






To haggle is the same as to bargain or to informally negotiate.


   Special Considerations  

Various economic theories have been proposed to explain the process of haggling. The behavioral theory proposes that certain people have different personalities or dispositions toward negotiations rather than taking prices as they are given. The game theory proposes solutions to bargaining problems as part of strategic action and can be interpreted as part of reaching a Nash Equilibrium.



Haggling is also considered when considering retail pricing theory. Mainstream (neoclassical) economics, however, supposes that all market prices are jointly determined by supply and demand and so there would be no need for haggling since all prices would always reflect an equilibrium level.
What Is a Haircut?  

In finance, a haircut has two meanings. A haircut is most commonly used when referencing the percentage difference between an asset's market value and the amount that can be used as collateral for a loan. There is a difference between these values because market prices change over time, and the lender factors this fluctuation into their valuation and analysis for risk mitigation.



For example, if a person needs a $10,000 loan and wants to use their $10,000 stock portfolio as collateral, the bank is more likely to recognize the $10,000 portfolio as worth only $5,000 in collateral. The $5,000 or 50% reduction in the asset's value, for collateral purposes, is called the haircut. Should the person's stock portfolio decline in value, they may still have sufficient collateral for the amount of debt issued.



The term haircut is less commonly used as the market maker's spread. The term haircut is used since the market maker's spreads are so thin. A market maker may "trim" a very small fee off of proceeds collected as part of providing liquidity in markets or facilitating trades.





Key Takeaways

A haircut is the lower-than-market value placed on an asset when it is being used as collateral for a loan.The size of the haircut is largely based on the risk of the underlying asset. Riskier assets receive larger haircuts.A haircut is implemented on the value of a borrower's assets to make sure the lender is sufficiently covered with collateral should the value of the assets decline. Haircut and margin both refer to the same concept of an asset's value being arbitrarily reduced for risk mitigation, though they are expressed differently.A haircut also refers to the sliver or haircut-like spreads market makers can create or have access to.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Collateral Haircut  

A haircut refers to the lower-than-market value placed on an asset being used as collateral for a loan. The haircut is expressed as a percentage of the markdown between the two values. When they are used as collateral, securities are generally devalued, since a cushion is required by the lending parties in case the market value falls.



When collateral is being pledged, the degree of the haircut is determined by the amount of associated risk to the lender. These risks include any variables that may affect the value of the collateral in the event that the lender has to sell the security due to a loan default by the borrower. Variables that may influence that amount of a haircut include price, volatility, credit quality of the asset's issuer (if applicable), and liquidity risks of the collateral.


   Determining Haircut Amount  

Generally speaking, price predictability and lower associated risks result in compressed haircuts, as the lender has a high degree of certainty that the full amount of the loan can be covered if the collateral must be liquidated. For example, Treasury bills are often used as collateral for overnight borrowing arrangements between government securities dealers, which are referred to as repurchase agreements (repos). In these arrangements, haircuts are negligible due to the high degree of certainty on the value, credit quality, and liquidity of the security.



Securities that are characterized by volatility and price uncertainty have larger haircuts when used as collateral. For example, an investor seeking to borrow funds from a brokerage by posting equity positions to a margin account as collateral can only borrow 50% of the value of the account due to the lack of price predictability, which is a haircut of 50%.



While a 50% haircut is standard for margin accounts, a risk-based haircut can be increased if the deposited securities pose liquidity or volatility risks. For example, the haircut on a portfolio of leveraged exchange-traded funds (ETFs), which are highly volatile, may be as high as 90%. Penny stocks, which pose potential price, volatility, and liquidity risks, typically cannot be used as collateral in margin accounts.






Different lenders will have different haircut valuations. If you're not satisfied with how much value your collateral is being assigned, consider evaluating the terms of other financial institutions.


   Haircut Market Maker Spreads  

A haircut is also sometimes referred to as the market maker's spread. Since market makers can transact with razor-thin spreads and low transaction costs they can take small slivers or haircuts of profits (or losses) constantly throughout the day.



With advances in technology and markets becoming more efficient, spreads in many assets have dropped to haircut levels. Retail traders can transact at the same spreads market makers do, although retail traders' costs are still higher which may make trading the spread ineffective.



In a stock, both retail traders and market makers can buy and sell for a $0.01 spread in an active and liquid stock, but buying and selling 500 shares to make $5 (500 * $0.01) when each trade typically costs $5 to $10 (varies by broker) is not a profitable strategy for the retail trader.


   Long-Term Capital Management's (LTCM) Failure and Collateral Haircuts Example  

LTCM was a hedge fund started in 1993. By 1998 it had amassed massive losses, nearly resulting in a collapse of the financial system. The basis of LTCM's profit model, which worked very well for a while, was to suck up small profits from market inefficiencies. This is commonly called arbitrage. The firm used historical models to highlight opportunities and then deployed capital to profit from them.



Each opportunity typically only produced a small amount of profit, so the firm utilized leverage—or borrowed money—in order to increase the gains. The firm had $5 billion in assets, yet controlled over $1 trillion worth of positions.






In the fall of 2018, 14 banks and brokerage firms invested $3.6 billion in LTCM to prevent the imminent collapse of the hedge fund.



Banks and other institutions allowed LTCM to borrow or leverage so much, with little collateral, mainly because they viewed the firm and their positions as non-risky. Ultimately, though, the firm's model failed to predict inefficiencies accurately, and those massively sized positions began to lose far more money than the firm actually had—and more money than many of the banks and institutions that lent to them or allow them to purchase assets had.



The failure of LTCM, which required a bailout of the financial system, resulted in much higher haircut rules in terms of what can be posted as collateral, and how much the haircut has to be. LTCM had basically no haircuts, yet today an average investor buying regular stocks is subject to a 50% haircut when using those stocks as collateral against the amount borrowed on a margin trading account.


   Market Maker Haircut Example  

In many markets, the market maker's spread is the same as the retail trader's spread, although the trading costs for the retail trader make trying to profit from a haircut spread ineffective.



One market where retail traders often cannot trade at the same spreads as the market makers is the forex market. This is because forex brokers often mark up the spread, which is how they make money. In the EUR/USD forex pair the raw spread available to market makers is 0.00001, yet retail traders may be paying a spread of 0.00005 to 0.00015 (or even higher), a mark-up of five to 15 times the raw spread.



Forex brokers that provide raw spreads to their clients charge a commission on each trade. They make their money off of trading fees instead of marking up the spread.




What Is the Difference Between a Haircut and a Margin?
A haircut and a margin are effectively the same things. Both items determine the value of collateral that is often less than the full amount of the collateral or loan.A haircut is often expressed as a reduction in the value of collateral. For example, a borrower may have received a 5% haircut on their $10,000 collateral. This means the borrower's collateral was only valued at $9,500.Alternatively, margin is often stated as the collateral ratio or percentage of the purchase price. Imagine a borrower opens up a trading account with a 60% margin. The borrower must deposit $10,000 to borrow $6,000.




What Is Haircut for Risk?
A haircut in finance is directly tied to risk. A lender does not want to issue a loan for the true value of collateral because if the value of the assets decrease, the lender will be at-risk to not recover the net value of their issued debt.To mitigate risk, a lender will implement a haircut on the value of the collateral. By having the true value of the collateral be higher than what the loan is actually issued for, the lender can build in risk mitigation to ensure full recoverability.




What Is a Haircut in Debt Restructuring?
A haircut in debt restructuring is yet another unique use of the term "haircut" in finance. Specific to debt restructuring, a haircut is the reduction of outstanding interest payments or a portion of a bond payable that will not be repaid. This condition may arise when a company considers restructuring its debt and negotiates new terms with existing bondholders.




What Is Haircut Value?
Haircut value is the lower-than-market valuation placed on an asset when the asset is being used as collateral for a loan. The haircut value is externally determined, and the asset holder often does not have a say in the determination of the haircut value.
What Is Half Stock?  

A half stock is a security sold with a par value that is 50% of what is considered to be the standard price. The par value refers to the face value of a bond, or in some cases, a stock. Half stock can be either common stock or preferred stock and, other than the reduced par value, acts as a regular share of stock.





Key Takeaways

A half stock is a type of security sold with a face value that is roughly half of what is considered to be the standard price. Half stock can be either common or preferred and acts as a regular share of stock, other than the fact that it has a reduced par value.Nonetheless, a half stock is most often preferred stock, rather than common stock, and usually involves the payment of a dividend.


   Half Stock Explained  

The valuation of a share of common stock is often the same for both a regular share of stock and half stock, as much of the stock's value is related to growth potential. Par value is an important factor in determining the dividend of a share of stock, making it more important for preferred stock. Additionally, preferred stock may have a higher claim on the proceeds of a company that was liquidated. A half stock share of preferred stock would potentially receive less in liquidation.



Par value is more commonly a term used in bonds, meaning the face value of a bond, representing the principal amount that the lender, or investor, is lending to the borrower, or issuer. In terms of stock, shares are also assigned a par value, but the number is usually small and arbitrary, such as $0.01 per share. Preferred stock is typically given a higher value because it is used to calculate dividends.


   Common Stock Versus Preferred Stock  

Common stock and preferred stock have small, however, significant differences. Common stock is a security that represents ownership in a corporation. Holders of common stock elect the company's board of directors and vote on corporate policy. But common shareholders are low on the ladder of priority in terms of ownership. In the event of liquidation, common shareholders have the right to a company's assets only after bondholders, preferred shareholders, and other debt holders have been paid in full.



Preferred stock is a level of ownership in a corporation that has a higher claim on its assets and earnings than common stock. With common stock, there is no obligation for a company to offer dividends. With preferred stock, shareholders expect to receive dividends. The promise of dividends is a selling feature, intrinsic to the security. Preferred shares generally have a dividend that must be paid out before dividends to common shareholders, and the shares usually do not carry voting rights.



Preferred stock is far more uncommon than common stock. Examples of preferred stock include shares issued by Bank of America (BAC) and MetLife (MET).﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿


   Real World Example  

A half stock has a par value that is typically half of what is considered normal. So, let's say the par value of e-commerce company BuySell's preferred stock is $100. However, the company decides that it also wants to issue some half stock.



The half stock is still considered to be preferred stock and is still ranked higher on the priority ladder than common stock, but because it is half stock, it will pay out a lesser dividend to shareholders and give the owners fewer claims on assets should the company need to declare bankruptcy and liquidate. BuySell issues preferred stock with a par value of $50, making it half stock.
What Is the Half-Year Convention For Depreciation?  

The half-year convention for depreciation is the depreciation schedule that treats all property acquired during the year as being acquired exactly in the middle of the year. This means that only half of the full-year depreciation is allowed in the first year, while the remaining balance is deducted in the final year of the depreciation schedule, or the year that the property is sold. The half-year convention for depreciation can be applied to all forms of depreciation methods.





Key Takeaways


The half-year convention for depreciation takes one half of the typical annual depreciation expense in both the first and last years of an asset's useful life.
The purpose of the half-year convention is to better align expenses with revenues generated by the asset in the same accounting period, per the matching principle.
The half-year convention applies to all forms of depreciation, including straight-line, double declining balance, and sum-of-the-years' digits.



   Understanding the Half-Year Convention for Depreciation  

As one of many U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the matching principle seeks to match expenses to the period in which the related revenues were earned. Depreciation is an accounting convention that helps match expenses incurred by a fixed asset and the related revenues generated by that asset over its useful life.



An item is recorded on a company's books as a fixed asset at the time of purchase if it exceeds a capitalization threshold set by the company and will bring value to the company over a number of years. Rather than taking the full expense in the year of purchase, depreciation allows a company to expense a portion of the cost of an asset in each of the years of the asset's useful life. The company will then keep track of the book value of the asset by subtracting the accumulated depreciation from the asset's historical cost. 



The half-year convention for depreciation allows companies to better match revenues and expenses in the year they are incurred by depreciating only half of the typical annual depreciation expense in year one if the asset is purchased in the middle of the year. This applies to all forms of depreciation, including straight-line, double-declining balance, and sum-of-the-years'-digits.



There is also a mid-quarter convention that must be used instead of the half-year convention, if at least 40% of the cost basis of all fixed assets acquired in a year were put in service sometime during the last three months of the year.


   Example of the Half-Year Convention  

As an example, assume a company purchases a $105,000 delivery truck with a salvage value of $5,000 and an expected life of 10 years. The straight-line method of depreciation expense is calculated by dividing the difference between the cost of the truck and the salvage value by the expected life of the truck. In this example, the calculation is $105,000 minus $5,000 divided by 10 years, or $10,000 per year. Ordinarily, the company would expense $10,000 in years one through 10.



If the company purchases the truck in July rather than January, however, it is more accurate to use the half-year convention to better align the cost of the equipment with the time period in which the truck provides value. Instead of depreciating the full $10,000 in year one, the half-year convention expenses half of the calculated depreciation expense, or $5,000 in year one. In years two through 10, the company expenses $10,000, and then in year 11, the company expenses the final $5,000. The half-year convention extends the number of years the asset is depreciated, but the extension provides a more accurate matching of expenses to revenues.




What Assets Can Use the Half-Year Convention?
The half-year convention can be applied to all property except residential rental property, nonresidential real property, railroad gradings, and tunnel bores, unless the mid-quarter convention applies.




When Can I Use the Half-Year Convention?
The half-year convention can be used if the mid-quarter convention does not apply. The mid-quarter convention applies if the aggregate basis of property placed in service during the last three months of your tax year exceeds 40% of the aggregate basis of all property placed in service during the tax year.For example, assume you bought a machine for $2,000 and placed it in service in January, a desk for $500 in April, and a computer for $2,000 in November. The computer, placed in service during the last three months of the year, exceeds 40% of the total basis of all property acquired during the year ($2,000 / $2,000 + $500 + $2,000 = 44.4%). Therefore, all three assets must use the mid-quarter convention.




What Forms of Depreciation Can Use the Half-Year Convention?
The half-year convention can be used with any depreciation methods. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Modified Accelerated Cost Recovery System (MACRS) consists of two depreciation systems, the General Depreciation System (GDS) and the Alternative Depreciation System (ADS), which typically has to be elected by the taxpayer unless required by the IRS.MACRS allows for three depreciation methods under GDS and one under ADS. The 200% declining balance, 150% declining balance, and straight line method can be used under GDS, but only the straight line can be used under ADS.


   The Bottom Line  

The half-year convention for depreciation holds that assets purchase during the year will be treated as if they were purchased in the middle of the year for the purposes of depreciation. Sometimes the mid-quarter convention will have to be used instead. These conventions allow a company to better match revenues and expenses in the year in which they are incurred.
What Was the Halloween Massacre?  

The Halloween Massacre refers to the Canadian government’s 2006 decision to tax all income trusts domiciled in Canada. On Halloween, Oct. 31, 2006, Canada’s then-minister of finance, Jim Flaherty, announced that all income trusts would be taxed similarly to corporations at a rate of over 30% on taxable income, causing unitholders’ values to decrease dramatically virtually overnight.



Income trusts—which were permitted to make distributions to unitholders on a pretax basis under previous Canadian income tax laws—were a popular investment vehicle in the early 2000s, especially in Canada. The Canadian energy sector was hardest hit by the change, suffering an estimated loss of about 17.85% in value (about $35 billion) to investors over the 10 days following the announcement, giving rise to the term “massacre.”





Key Takeaways

The Halloween Massacre refers to the Canadian government’s October 2006 decision to tax all Canadian income trusts in a similar manner as corporations.The tax rate levied was more than 30%, a shock to many trustors.The change was made to compensate for a perceived loss in tax revenue, and it caused an immediate drop of 12% in the value of Canadian income trusts.


   Understanding Canadian Income Trusts  

A Canadian income trust is an investment fund that holds income-producing assets and distributes payments to unitholders, or shareholders, on a regular basis. Distributions are usually made quarterly or monthly. A Canadian income trust must distribute a minimum of 90% of its net cash flows. Tax advantages to investing in a Canadian income trust include advantages to both the investor and the entity itself.



The investor receives a portion of the periodic payment as an untaxed return of capital and a portion as a taxable distribution. The trust distributes most of its cash to unitholders, leaving little to be retained by the entity, so there is little left to tax. The trust pays out most of the earnings to unitholders before paying taxes, and it is usually traded publicly on a securities exchange.


   Understanding the Halloween Massacre  

The change in Canadian tax law to tax income trusts the same as corporations—which was debated after the fact—was made to remedy a perceived loss of tax revenue. At the time, according to Bloomberg News, there were some 250 trusts listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX), with many offering enticing yields of 10%. The surprise move by the government shocked investors and caused an immediate 12% decline in the value of the trusts.






U.S. investors who invest in a Canadian income trust should keep in mind that payments from these trusts are subject to a Canadian withholding tax of 15%. In some cases, it’s possible to claim a foreign tax credit, depending on where the shares are held.



In the years since the Halloween Massacre, interest rates were low in Canada and the United States, as investors clamored for more yields like the kind that income trusts once provided. Nevertheless, as of 2022, income trusts were still available, many of them real estate investment trusts (REITs). These entities hold and maintain income-producing real estate—including office buildings, shopping centers, and hotels—that Canada still offers special tax treatment. When income flows through to unitholders, they don’t pay much, if any, corporate tax, and most of the distributions are taxed as ordinary income.


   Recent Fallout from the Halloween Massacre  

In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Canadian REIT market was hit hard. The second quarter of 2020 “brought the largest ever year-over-year decline for quarterly earnings at minus 13%,” according to Carolyn Blair, managing director of RBC Capital Markets Real Estate Group. As of the end of September 2020, Canadian REITs underperformed with a negative 20% return over the preceding 12 months.



The pandemic’s effect on real estate—including tenant insolvency, empty storefronts, reduced retail business, closed shops, restaurants, and more—was to blame. Canadian REITs, since then, experienced a major rebound, but then fell back. As of the end of September 2021, they had returned 43% over the previous 12 months, according to RBC. But some think, as of October 2022, that REITS may be softening.




When Was Canada’s Halloween Massacre?
The Halloween Massacre took place on Oct. 31, 2006. On this date, the Canadian government made an unexpected announcement that all income trusts domiciled in Canada would be taxed like corporations.




What Was the Impact of the Halloween Massacre?
The announcement caused the value of Canadian income trusts to decline by 12% immediately. The Canadian energy sector was impacted the most and lost approximately 17.85% in value during the 10 days that followed.




What Is a Canadian Income Trust?
A Canadian income trust is an investment fund that holds income-producing assets and distributes payments to unitholders on a periodic basis, typically monthly or quarterly. The trusts are required to distribute a minimum of 90% of net cash flows to shareholders.


   The Bottom Line  

Income trusts have survived the Halloween Massacre and the subsequent near-death experience of the COVID-19 pandemic. While not as lucrative as in the past, the sector is more than skeletal and very much alive.
What Is the Halloween Strategy?  

The Halloween strategy, Halloween effect, or Halloween indicator is a market timing strategy based on the hypothesis that stocks perform better from Oct. 31 (Halloween) to May 1 than they do from the beginning of May through the end of October. The strategy posits that it is prudent to buy stocks in November, hold them through the winter months, then sell in April, while investing in other asset classes from May through October. Some who subscribe to this tactic say not to invest at all during the summer months.



The idea that investors can time the market in this way is contrary to the buy-and-hold strategy, in which an investor may ride out down months, and invest for the longer term. The superior results seem to contradict the premise of the efficient market hypothesis and that stocks behave in a completely random manner.





Key Takeaways

The Halloween strategy suggests that investors should be fully invested in stocks from November through April, and out of stocks from May through October.Variations of this strategy and its accompanying axioms have been around for more than a century.There is evidence that this strategy does perform well over several years, but no one has offered a satisfactory explanation for why it works.The Halloween indicator is fascinating for the reason that it is an empirical anomaly as well as a mystery.


   Understanding the Halloween Strategy  

The Halloween strategy is closely related to the oft-repeated advice to sell in May and go away. It is worth noting that some variation of this strategy has actually been around for quite a long time. The axiom so often coined in financial media was also repeated over the last two centuries, and its longer version was some variation of these words: Sell in May, go away, come again St. Leger Day.



Many believe that the notion of abandoning stocks in May of each year has its origins in the United Kingdom, where the privileged class would leave London and head to their country estates for the summer, largely ignoring their investment portfolios, only to return in September. Those who subscribe to this notion would likely expect that it is common for salesmen, traders, brokers, equity analysts, and others in the investment community to leave their metropolitan financial centers in summer in favor of oases like the Hamptons in New York, Nantucket in Massachusetts, and their equivalents elsewhere.



However, Sven Bouman and Ben Jacobsen published a paper in the American Economic Review that specifically studied the performance of stocks during the period from November to April and dubbed this the Halloween Indicator. In their observation, an investor who would use the Halloween strategy to be fully invested for one six-month period and out of the market for the other six months of the year would theoretically reap the best part of an annual return, but with just half the exposure of someone who invests in stocks year-round.


   Performance of the Strategy  

The Halloween strategy does have evidence worthy of consideration. Historical stock returns suggest that the premise of the Halloween strategy has been mostly true throughout the last half-century—that the months from November through April actually have provided investors with stronger capital gains than have the other months of the year.



Results also show that a strategy of selling in May is successful in beating the market more than 80% of the time when employed over a five-year horizon, and more than 90% successful in beating the market when used within a 10-year time frame.



The graph below displays the Halloween effect for U.S. stocks for the comparable periods 1970–2017 and 1991–2017. It indicates that the return on the Standard & Poor’s 500 (S&P 500) Index is much higher from November through April than it is from May through October.












   What Causes the Halloween Effect?  

No one has been able to conclusively identify a reason for this seasonal anomaly. While many market watchers believe that investment professionals’ summer vacations do have an impact on market liquidity—or that investors’ aversion to risk during the summer months is at least partly responsible for the difference in seasonal returns—these notions assume that increased participation means increased gains.



However, market crashes and similar investing disasters are attended by the highest levels in volume and participation. Therefore, the assumption of increased participation may have some correlation with gains, but it is not likely to cause the gains. Proximity to trading resources is not likely to be an explanation, either, as electronic trading allows investors all around the world to participate—as easily from the beach as from the boardroom.



There is no dearth of theories to support whatever one wants to believe about the Halloween strategy. For as many different opinions as there are about the Halloween effect, there is an equal number of theories to support those opinions. The Halloween strategy is fascinating for the very reason that it is both an empirical anomaly and a mystery.




Does spending money on Halloween have an effect on the economy?
Yes. According to the National Retail Federation, Americans were planning on spending $10.14 billion on Halloween in 2021 and has been steadily on the rise for many years. Spending at an individual level was expected to be $102.74 across segments such as candy, decorations, costumes, pumpkins, party supplies, and cards.




Is the Halloween effect real?
Some variation of the Halloween strategy has been around for quite a long time. The axiom so often coined in financial media was also repeated over the last two centuries, and its longer version was some variation of these words: Sell in May, go away, come again St. Leger Day.




Does the Halloween investing strategy outperform buy and hold?
Historical stock returns suggest that the premise of the Halloween strategy has been mostly true throughout the last half-century—that the months from November through April actually have provided investors with stronger capital gains than have the other months of the year.Results also show that a strategy of selling in May is successful in beating the market more than 80% of the time when employed over a five-year horizon, and more than 90% successful in beating the market when used with a 10-year time frame.
What Is the Halo Effect?  

The halo effect is a term for a consumer's favoritism toward a line of products due to positive experiences with other products by this maker. The halo effect is correlated to brand strength, brand loyalty, and contributes to brand equity. 



The opposite of the halo effect is the horn effect, named for the horns of the devil. When consumers have an unfavorable experience, they correlate that negative experience with everything associated with a brand.





Key Takeaways

Companies chase the halo effect because it establishes both brand loyalty and repeat, loyal customers.The concept of the "halo effect" can be traced back to 1920 from a paper written by American psychologist Edward L. Thorndike.Companies use the halo effect to establish themselves as leaders in their industries.The halo effect can be a double-edged sword: if a brand has an extremely positive perception, this can extend into its new products and boost customer retention and loyalty. If not, a poor brand image can also be passed onto new products.The opposite of the halo effect is called the horn effect, which is when a company releases a bad product that destroys loyalty and positive market perception.


   How the Halo Effect Works  

Companies create the halo effect by capitalizing on their existing strengths. With the concentration of marketing efforts on high-performing, successful products and services, the firm's visibility increases and reputation and brand equity strengthens.  



When consumers have positive experiences with products of highly visible brands, they cognitively form a brand loyalty bias in favor of the brand and its offerings. This belief is independent of a consumer's experience. The reasoning is that if a company is exceptionally good at one thing, it will undoubtedly be good at something else. This assumption will take a brand far, parlaying into other new products.



The halo effect increases brand loyalty, strengthens the brand image and reputation, and translates into high brand equity. Companies use the halo effect to establish themselves as leaders in their industries. When one product positively imprints in the minds of consumers, the success of that product infectiously affects other products. Ultimately, businesses can gain market share and increase profits thanks to the halo effect, even protecting consumers from purchasing from competitors if they have an all-star product.






Companies benefit from the halo effect by capitalizing on their existing strengths.


   History of the Halo Effect  

The concept of the "halo effect" can be traced back to 1920 when American psychologist Edward L. Thorndike first used it to describe his observations of military officers who had to rank their subordinates.



Without even communicating with the lower-ranked military men, many of the superiors automatically assumed that physically attractive men were smarter, more capable, and had more leadership qualities than the other men. In Thorndike's paper "The Constant Error in Psychological Ratings", he noted that one impression can create a "halo effect" that they are more likely to prescribe to an individual's other qualities as well.


   Special Considerations  

It isn't easy for a company to achieve brand loyalty and build a halo effect for their wider set of products or services; after all, this can be somewhat of an elusive gold standard that only a number of household brands name possess. However, companies that focus on making their products "cult products" or achieve "cult status" are more likely to benefit from the halo effect on subsequent products they release. Often, these companies funnel all their efforts into one superior product and become known for it, before then expanding to other kinds of products.



An easy way to take advantage of the halo effect is by hiring a celebrity ambassador to promote a product. When an endorsement from a popular celebrity (for example, George Clooney) is secured, their positive image can be lent to the brand or product and looked upon favorably ("if George Clooney endorsed it, it must be good.")



Of course, traditional ways of achieving the brand halo effect can be achieved through developing a curated social media presence to improve a brand's external image, reach, and visibility, as well as focusing on the product and user experience itself can all help a brand develop a halo effect.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Halo Effect  

The halo effect can be a double-edged sword: if a brand has an extremely positive perception, this can extend into its new products and boost customer retention and loyalty. However, a halo effect doesn't make a brand untouchable either: have one bad experience with a brand, and consumers will swear it off altogether.



The well-known marketing case of Classic Coke vs. New Coke is an example of how tinkering with a beloved “halo brand” can turn disastrous. Despite being a cult product, Coca-Cola thought that it needed to rebrand its classic product in 1985 by releasing "New Coke" to taste sweeter and more like Pepsi, then beginning to close the gap as Coca-Cola's nearest competitor. Although the sweeter New Coke formula had been proven by data in blind taste tests, the company underestimated the emotional attachment that loyal Coke drinkers had to the original formula. They were enraged, and quickly Coca-Cola announced that it would revert back to its original formula.



The halo effect and brand image of Coca-Cola were put at risk with the introduction of the new formula, showing that a halo effect must also be intentionally maintained.





Pros

Halo effects create strong brand loyalty and consumer retention
Consumers are willing to pay more money for a brand they already know and trust
Subsequent new products by a brand will benefit from the brand's halo effect



Cons

The halo effect can extend negative impressions, too, known as the "horn effect"
Maintaining a brand's halo effect can also be challenging
Brand image can be a make-it-or-break-it factor in a product's success, making the halo effect a more elusive factor to control





   Example of the Halo Effect  

The halo effect applies to a broad range of categories, including people, organizations, ideas, and brands. For example, Apple (AAPL) benefits significantly from the halo effect. With the release of the iPod, there was market speculation that the sales of Apple's Mac laptops would also increase due to the success of the iPod.



Figuratively, a halo forms and extends over the brand. It effectively allows for the expansion of product offerings. For example, Apple's iPod success allowed for the development of other consumer products such as the Apple Watch, iPhone, and iPad. If the following product pales in comparison to the leading product, the success of the leading product will help to compensate for the failure rather than leading to a total shift in brand perception. This brand extension helps brands like Apple to remain a beloved technology giant, even despite other failures. For example, to date, very few people remember the company's flops AirPower or the Apple Newton.



This phenomenon of one product favorably impacting another—such as is the case with Apple—is considered a near-perfect example of the halo effect. The iPod buyers just kept coming back and consequently, iPhone sales have been steady, continuing the cycle.


   The Bottom Line  

The halo effect, when achieved, can be one of the most powerful assets to a brand as it increases brand strength, brand loyalty, and increases brand equity. Ultimately, achieving this "cult status" is no easy feat.
What Is the Hamada Equation?  

The Hamada equation is a fundamental analysis method of analyzing a firm's cost of capital as it uses additional financial leverage, and how that relates to the overall riskiness of the firm. The measure is used to summarize the effects this type of leverage has on a firm's cost of capital—over and above the cost of capital as if the firm had no debt.


   How the Hamada Equation Works  

Robert Hamada is a former professor of finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Hamada started teaching at the university in 1966 and served as the dean of the business school from 1993 to 2001. His equation appeared in his paper, "The Effect of the Firm's Capital Structure on the Systemic Risk of Common Stocks" in the Journal of Finance in May 1972.



The formula for the Hamada equation is:



﻿
















β


L



=



β


U




[


1


+


(


1


−


T


)



(




D




E




)



]

















where:

















β


L



=


Levered beta

















β


U



=


Unlevered beta*
















T


=


Tax rate
















D


/


E


=


Debt to equity ratio*








\begin{aligned} &\beta_L = \beta_U \left [ 1 + ( 1 - T) \left ( \frac{ D }{ E } \right ) \right ]\\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\beta_L = \text{Levered beta} \\ &\beta_U = \text{Unlevered beta*} \\ &T = \text{Tax rate} \\ &D/E = \text{Debt to equity ratio*} \\ \end{aligned}


​βL​=βU​[1+(1−T)(ED​)]where:βL​=Levered betaβU​=Unlevered beta*T=Tax rateD/E=Debt to equity ratio*​﻿



* Unlevered beta is the market risk of a company without the impact of debt.



* Debt-to-equity ratio is a measure of a company's financial leverage.


   How to Calculate the Hamada Equation  

The Hamada equation is calculated by:



Dividing the company’s debt by its equity.
Finding one less the tax rate.
Multiplying the result from no. 1 and no. 2 and adding one.
Taking the unlevered beta and multiplying it by the result from no. 3.


   What Does the Hamada Equation Tell You?  

The equation draws upon the Modigliani-Miller theorem on capital structure and extends an analysis to quantify the effect of financial leverage on a firm. Beta is a measure of volatility or systemic risk relative to the overall market. The Hamada equation, then, shows how the beta of a firm changes with leverage. The higher the beta coefficient, the higher the risk associated with the firm.





Key Takeaways

The Hamada equation is a method of analyzing a firm's cost of capital as it uses additional financial leverage.It draws upon the Modigliani-Miller theorem on capital structure.The higher the Hamada equation beta coefficient, the higher the risk associated with the firm.


   Example of the Hamada Equation  

A firm has a debt-to-equity ratio of 0.60, a tax rate of 33%, and an unlevered beta of 0.75. The Hamada coefficient would be 0.75 [1 + (1 - 0.33)(0.60)], or 1.05. This means that financial leverage for this firm increases the overall risk by a beta amount of 0.30, which is 1.05 less 0.75 or 40% (0.3 / 0.75).



Or consider retailer Target (NYSE: TGT), which has a current unlevered beta of 0.82. Its debt-to-equity ratio is 1.05 and the effective annual tax rate is 20%. Thus, the Hamada coefficient is 0.99, or 0.82 [1 + (1 - 0.2) (0.26)]. Thus, leverage for a firm increases the beta amount by 0.17, or 21%.


   The Difference Between Hamada Equation and Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC)  

The Hamada equation is part of the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The WACC involves unlevering the beta to relever it to find an ideal capital structure. The act of relevering the beta is the Hamada equation.


   Limitations of Using the Hamada Equation  

The Hamada equation is used in finding optimal capital structures, yet the equation doesn’t include default risk. While there have been modifications to account for such a risk, they still lack a robust way to incorporate credit spreads and the risk of default. To gain a better understanding of how to use the Hamada equation, it’s useful to understand what the beta is and how to calculate it.
What Is a Hammer Candlestick?  

A hammer is a price pattern in candlestick charting that occurs when a security trades significantly lower than its opening, but rallies within the period to close near the opening price. This pattern forms a hammer-shaped candlestick, in which the lower shadow is at least twice the size of the real body. The body of the candlestick represents the difference between the opening and closing prices, while the shadow shows the high and low prices for the period.





Key Takeaways


Hammer candlesticks typically occur after a price decline. They have a small real body and a long lower shadow.
The hammer candlestick occurs when sellers enter the market during a price decline. By the time of market close, buyers absorb selling pressure and push the market price near the opening price.
The close can be above or below the opening price, although the close should be near the open for the real body of the candlestick to remain small.
The lower shadow should be at least two times the height of the real body.
Hammer candlesticks indicate a potential price reversal to the upside. The price must start moving up following the hammer; this is called confirmation.













Mira Norian / Investopedia


   Understanding Hammer Candlesticks  

A hammer occurs after the price of a security has been declining, suggesting that the market is attempting to determine a bottom.



Hammers signal a potential capitulation by sellers to form a bottom, accompanied by a price rise to indicate a potential reversal in price direction. This happens all during a single period, where the price falls after the opening but regroups to close near the opening price.



A hammer should look similar to a “T.” This indicates the potential for a hammer candle. A hammer candlestick does not indicate a price reversal to the upside until it is confirmed.



Confirmation occurs if the candle following the hammer closes above the closing price of the hammer. Ideally, this confirmation candle shows strong buying. Candlestick traders will typically look to enter long positions or exit short positions during or after the confirmation candle. For those taking new long positions, a stop loss can be placed below the low of the hammer’s shadow.



Hammers aren’t usually used in isolation, even with confirmation. Traders typically utilize price or trend analysis, or technical indicators to further confirm candlestick patterns.



Hammers occur on all time frames, including one-minute charts, daily charts, and weekly charts.






   Example of How to Use a Hammer Candlestick  













Hammer Candlestick Example.
Investopedia



The chart shows a price decline followed by a hammer pattern. This pattern had a long lower shadow, several times longer than the real body. The hammer signaled a possible price reversal to the upside.



Confirmation came on the next candle, which gapped higher and then saw the price get bid up to a close well above the closing price of the hammer.



Traders usually step in to buy during the confirmation candle. A stop loss is placed below the low of the hammer, or even potentially just below the hammer’s real body if the price is moving aggressively higher during the confirmation candle.


   The Difference Between a Hammer Candlestick and a Doji  

A doji is another type of candlestick with a small real body. A doji signifies indecision because it is has both an upper and a lower shadow. Dojis may signal a price reversal or a trend continuation, depending on the confirmation that follows. This differs from the hammer, which occurs after a price decline, signals a potential upside reversal (if followed by confirmation), and only has a long lower shadow.


   Limitations of Using Hammer Candlesticks  

There is no assurance that the price will continue to move to the upside following the confirmation candle. A long-shadowed hammer and a strong confirmation candle may push the price quite high within two periods. This may not be an ideal spot to buy, as the stop loss may be a great distance away from the entry point, exposing the trader to risk that doesn’t justify the potential reward.



Hammers also don’t provide a price target, so figuring what the reward potential for a hammer trade is can be difficult. Exits need to be based on other types of candlestick patterns or analysis.


   Psychology of the Hammer  

As we have seen, an actionable hammer pattern generally emerges in the context of a downtrend, or when the chart is showing a sequence of lower highs and lower lows. The appearance of the hammer suggests that more bullish investors are taking positions in the stock and that a reversal in the downward price movement may be imminent.



The long lower shadow on the hammer candlestick indicates an effort to continue the price’s downward trajectory, but the higher close represented by the real body indicates that the sellers were ultimately unsuccessful in holding the price at its intraday low. The price’s ascent from its session low to a higher close suggests that a more bullish outlook won the day, setting the stage for a potential reversal to the upside.


   Practical Application  

If you’ve spotted a hammer candlestick on a price chart, you may be eager to make a trade and profit from the potential upcoming price movement. Before you place your order, let’s take a look at a few practical considerations that can help you make the most of a trade based on the hammer pattern.


  The Hammer Signal  

The first step is to ensure that what you’re seeing on the candlestick chart does in fact correspond with a hammer pattern. If you’re looking for hammer signal that implies a potential upside reversal, it should occur in the context of a downtrend, or declining price action marked by a series of lower highs and lower lows.



Under these circumstances, the signal you’re keeping an eye out for is a hammer-shaped candlestick with a lower shadow that is at least twice the size of the real body. The closing price may be slightly above or below the opening price, although the close should be near the open, meaning that the candlestick’s real body remains small.


  Looking for Confirmation  

Confirmation of a hammer signal occurs when subsequent price action corroborates the expectation of a trend reversal. In other words, the candlestick following the hammer signal should confirm the upward price move. Traders who are hoping to profit from a hammer signal often buy during the formation of this upward confirmation candle.


  Placing Stops and Taking Profits  

As with any trade, it is advisable to use stops to protect your position in case the hammer signal does not play out in the way that you expect. The level at which you set your stop will depend on your confidence in the trade and your risk tolerance. However, it may be useful to set a stop loss below the low of the hammer pattern, providing protection in case the downward pressure reemerges and the upward move that you were anticipating never materializes.



On the other hand, if the price does begin to rise, rewarding your recognition of the hammer signal, you will have to decide on an optimal level to exit the trade and take your profits. On its own, the hammer signal provides little guidance as to where you should set your take-profit order. As you strategize on a potential exit point, you may want to look for other resistance levels such as nearby swing lows.




What is a hammer candlestick?
A hammer candlestick is a technical trading pattern that resembles a “T” whereby the price trend of a security will fall below its opening price, illustrating a long lower shadow, and then consequently reverse and close near its opening. Hammer candlestick patterns occur after a downtrend. They are often considered signals for a reversal pattern.




Is a hammer candlestick pattern bullish?
The hammer candlestick is a bullish trading pattern that may indicate that a stock has reached its bottom and is positioned for trend reversal. Specifically, it indicates that sellers entered the market, pushing the price down, but were later outnumbered by buyers who drove the asset price up. Importantly, the upside price reversal must be confirmed, which means that the next candle must close above the hammer’s previous closing price.




What is the difference between a hammer candlestick and a shooting star?
While a hammer candlestick pattern signals a bullish reversal, a shooting star pattern indicates a bearish price trend. Shooting star patterns occur after a stock uptrend, illustrating an upper shadow. Essentially the opposite of a hammer candlestick, the shooting star rises after opening but closes roughly at the same level of the trading period. A shooting star pattern signals the top of a price trend.


   The Bottom Line  

A hammer candlestick pattern occurs when a security trades significantly lower than its opening but then rallies to close near its opening price. The hammer-shaped candlestick that appears on the chart has a lower shadow at least twice the size of the real body. The pattern suggests that sellers have attempted to push the price lower, but buyers have eventually regained control and returned the price near its opening level. The pattern indicates a potential price reversal to the upside.
What is a Hammer Clause?  

A hammer clause is an insurance policy clause that allows an insurer to compel the insured to settle a claim. A hammer clause is also known as a blackmail clause, settlement cap provision, or consent to settlement provision. This clause gets its name from the power given to the insurer to force the insured to settle, much as how a hammer is used against a nail.


   How a Hammer Clause Works  

Hammer clauses allow the insurer to force the insured to settle. It does this by placing a cap on the amount of indemnification that it is willing to provide. This cap may be set, for example, at the amount the insurer thinks that the settlement is worth. If the insured refuses to settle, it may be responsible for its own defense costs.







A hammer clause is an insurance policy clause that can be used by an insurer to get the insured to settle a claim in a suit. 
Blackmail clause, settlement cap provision, or consent to settlement provision are all other names for a hammer clause. 
There is specific wording connected to a hammer clause.




Insurance companies indemnify their policyholders from the risks outlined in the policy that they purchase. If a claim is made, the insurer is responsible for helping settle the loss. In some cases, the insurance company, and the insured party will have a different opinion on what the settlement value should be.



The insurer wants to limit the costs that it incurs during the settlement process, including legal fees and claims adjuster fees, which can grow substantially the longer the claims process drags out.






A hammer clause allows the insurer to compel a manufacturer in a lawsuit to settle the case.



The insured party, however, is interested in reducing the amount of money it will owe in a settlement, and since it does not incur the legal fees, it has less of an incentive to finalize a settlement if the party is not pleased with the amount.


   Sample Hammer Clause Wording  

There is wording specific to a hammer clause,: We have the right and duty to defend any claim seeking damages, even if any of the allegations of the claim are groundless, false, or fraudulent. We will investigate any such claim we deem appropriate. We will not settle any claim without your written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. You and we agree to consult with each other to resolve any differences to such settlement.


   Example of the Hammer Clause  

For example, consider a manufacturer that is being sued for injuries sustained by consumers who used its product. The manufacturer’s liability policy requires the insurer to defend the manufacturer in court.



The insurer may recognize that defending the insured will be a drawn-out process and that the consumer lawsuit may be finalized quickly by offering a settlement. The manufacturer, however, doesn’t want the settlement because it will cost it money out-of-pocket. A hammer clause will allow the insurer to compel the manufacturer to settle.
What Is Hammering?  

Hammering is rapid and concentrated selling of stock shares in the wake of an unexpected event that is perceived as extremely damaging to the company's short-term performance. The effect of hammering is a steep drop in the price of the stock.





Key Takeaways

Hammering is a fast-paced sell-off in a stock, a sector, or the markets as a whole.It typically follows an unexpected adverse event, also known as an asteroid event. Some stocks and sectors are particularly prone to events that cause hammering.


   How Hammering Works  
  Understanding an Asteroid Event  

Hammering is usually a response to unexpected bad news, also known as an asteroid event, such as a terrorist attack. It may focus on a single stock, a sector of the market, or the entire stock market.



In some cases, investors may collaborate in an effort to push the share price lower for their own purposes. Hammering can be accomplished with a few large sale orders or many small sell orders.



A single company may experience an asteroid event that triggers hammering. If the success of a company relies on the reputation of a particular boss or the success of a single product, an adverse event may instantly change the company's outlook.



Some companies and industries are particularly prone to asteroid events. For a small pharmaceutical or biotechnology company, a setback in a clinical trial or FDA approval can change expectations of its short-term profit expectations overnight.



More common asteroid events include corporate restructurings, mergers and acquisitions deals, bankruptcy, spin-offs, or takeovers. If such an event catches the market by surprise, the stock could well get hammered.



Investors may try to benefit from an asteroid event if they perceive it as a temporary stock mispricing. They simply buy the stock after it falls in the expectation that it will quickly recover.



That strategy may misfire. After an asteroid event, stock analysts review the stock and may issue revised recommendations and lower price targets. Other investors will respond to those recommendations, keeping the stock's price lower for the long haul.



Some asteroid events actually are good for a stock's price. When a hostile takeover occurs, the stock price of the target company is likely to rise. If the takeover fails, the stock price could rise or fall depending on market sentiment.


  Achieving a Hammer Candlestick Chart Pattern  

Technical analysts, who watch the ups and downs of stock prices in order to identify patterns that can be exploited, have identified a hammer candlestick pattern that indicates a recovery in a stock's price.



This indicator may appear after a prolonged downtrend in the stock's price. The stock endures strong selling. It reaches a low point and then begins to recover. Eventually, it closes near its previous mark or higher.



In this case, the market may be seen as "hammering out a bottom."






To technical analysts, a hammer candlestick pattern indicates that a stock should reverse course and begin to rise in price.


   Example of Hammering a Stock  

Shares of Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (CMG) got hammered after 22 people reported becoming ill after eating at its restaurants in October 2015.﻿﻿ A strain of E. coli infection was blamed.



Chipotle acted quickly after the early reports. It temporarily closed 43 locations in Washington state and Oregon even before testing confirmed its food was to blame.



The bad news kept coming. By late January 2016, a total of 55 people in 11 states had been sickened by one of two strains of E. coli bacteria possibly linked to Chipotle products.



From October 2015 to February 2018, shares went from above $750 per share all the way down to $250.﻿﻿ In every company's nightmare scenario, Chipotle Mexican Grill became the butt of late-night comedy jokes about food poisoning.﻿﻿



But that wasn't the end of it. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) credited the company with a number of aggressive measures to deal with the crisis, including the immediate shutdown of 43 West Coast restaurants. In addition, Chipotle:



Conducted 2,500 microbial tests on its food, restaurant surfaces, and equipment. None showed E. coli contamination;Expanded its testing of products before restocking its restaurants;Conducted a deep cleaning of all of its restaurants, and,Worked closely with government authorities to reevaluate its food safety standards.﻿﻿



Chipotle stock did not return to its previous levels until well into 2019. By mid-2020, its price had almost reached $1,200 a share. It's safe to say that Chipotle achieved that hammer candlestick pattern, although perhaps not as quickly as some of its investors would have hoped.
What Is the Hamptons Effect?  

The Hamptons Effect refers to a dip in trading that occurs just before the Labor Day weekend that is followed by increased trading volume as traders and investors return from the long weekend. The term references the idea that many of the large-scale traders on Wall Street spend the last days of summer in the Hamptons, a traditional summer destination for the New York City elite.



The increased trading volume of the Hamptons Effect can be positive if it takes the form of a rally as portfolio managers place trades to firm up overall returns toward the end of the year. Alternatively, the effect can be negative if portfolio managers decide to take profits rather than opening or adding to their positions. The Hamptons Effect is a calendar effect based on a combination of statistical analysis and anecdotal evidence.





Key Takeaways

The Hamptons Effect refers to a dip in trading that occurs just before the Labor Day weekend that is followed by increased trading volume as traders and investors return from the long weekend. The Hamptons is a traditional summer destination for wealthy New York City traders. The increased trading volume of the Hamptons Effect can be positive if it takes the form of a rally as portfolio managers place trades to firm up overall returns toward the end of the year. It is a calendar effect based on a combination of statistical analysis and anecdotal evidence.The Hamptons Effect and other similar anomalies that can be construed from data are interesting findings, but their value as an investment strategy is not significant for the average investor. 


   The Statistical Case for the Hamptons Effect  

The statistical case for the Hamptons Effect is stronger for some sectors compared to others. Using a market-wide measure such as the Standard & Poor's 500, the Hamptons Effect is characterized by slightly higher volatility with a small positive effect depending on the period used. However, it is possible to use sector-level data and create a case showing that a certain stock profile is favored following the long weekend.



For example, the case can be made that defensive stocks, which are consistent performers similar to food and utilities, are favored as the end of the year approaches and, therefore, benefit from the Hamptons Effect.


   Trading Opportunities  

As with any market effect, finding a pattern and reliably profiting from a pattern are two different things. Analyzing a set of data will almost always reveal interesting trends and patterns as the parameters shift. The Hamptons Effect can certainly be construed from market data when adjustments are made to the period and the type of stock. The question for investors is whether the effect is large enough to create a true performance advantage after fees, taxes, and spreads are considered.



For an individual investor, the answer is often to the negative for market anomalies. The Hamptons Effect and other similar anomalies that can be construed from data are interesting findings, but their value as an investment strategy is not significant for the average investor. Even if a market effect appears consistent, it can quickly dissipate as traders and institutional investors implement strategies to take advantage of the arbitrage opportunity.
What Is Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB)?  

Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB) is a law that governs the primary commercial code for companies in Germany. The law includes a regulation related to the preparation of financial statements and establishes accounting guidelines and best practices. HGB is similar to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which is followed in the United States.





Key Takeaways

Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB) is Germany's commercial code and accounting standards for how companies must prepare and report financial statements.The HGB also mandates various corporate ordinances and regulations dealing with the treatment of workers.In many ways, the guidelines spelled out in the HGB are similar to the U.S. GAAP and IFRS with a few notable differences.Germany’s laws and IFRS both use historical costs as the core of accounting, but German law generally does not allow for revaluations as the IFRS does.


   Understanding Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB)  

The commercial code of Germany, known as Handelsgesetzbuch, was first established on May 10, 1897. In 1998, the code was adapted to conform to new laws within the European community.



The HGB has also been used in Austria since 1938. In 2007, the HGB in Austria was replaced by a newer unified commercial code called the Unternehmensgesetzbuch (UGB). German accounting law was further updated in 2010 with the Bilanzrechtsmodernisierungsgesetz (BilMoG).



HGB includes the governance on the registration of companies in Germany and the ordinances they must adhere to. For example, HGB includes provisions on the use of commercial brokers, agents, and the formation and dissolution of partnerships with third parties.



The mandates of HGB include paying employees’ salaries by the end of each month. Under the law, non-compete clauses in employees' hiring contracts must be in writing. There are also provisions regarding charter contracts for ships and salvage rights.


   Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB) vs. IFRS  

Germany’s commercial code and accounting laws share similarities and differences with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). For example, Germany’s laws and IFRS both use historical costs as the core of accounting, but German law generally does not allow for revaluations.



IFRS allows for the revaluation of the fair value of property, intangible assets, investment property, equipment, and inventions within set industries. German accounting law does offer some exceptions to the fair value assessment of financial instruments from banks and financial institutions that are held for trading.



Income statements are largely similar under either set of accounting laws, but differences do exist. There is no statement of comprehensive income under German account practices. Income statements can be issued by using the cost of sales or total cost methods. Furthermore, income drawn from discounting provisions must be included with other interest and similar income.



With IFRS, a company can decide to show its income or expenses as a single statement of comprehensive income or as two statements. The separate statements can show components of profit or loss, plus another statement for other income.



HGB only requires a statement of cash flows for consolidated financial statements and for publicly traded companies that are not required to file consolidated financial statements. IFRS and German accounting practices both classify cash flows by operating, investment, and financing activities.
What Is a Handle?  

A handle is the whole number part of a price quote, that is, the portion of the quote to the left of the decimal point. For example, if the price quote for the stock is $56.25, the handle is $56, eliminating the value of cents in the quote. Handles are often used in futures and equities markets, where they are also known as the big figure, or "big fig".



In foreign exchange markets, the handle refers to the part of the price quote that appears in both the bid and the offer for the currency. For example, if the EUR/USD currency pair has a bid of 1.4183 and an ask of 1.4185, the handle would be 1.41 – the part of the quote that is equal to both the bid and the ask.





Key Takeaways

A handle is the the part of a price quote that exists to the left of the decimal point in the full quote.Also known as the big figure, the handle is used to quickly convey the general price level on a security or index.In forex markets, the handle includes both the dollar amount and typically the digits to the right of the decimal point as well that appear on both sides of a two-way quote.


   Handles Explained  

Traders often refer to only the handle of a price quote since it is assumed that other market participants know the stem of the quote. For example, if S&P 500 futures are trading at $2885.43, the handle could be conveyed simple as 2885, or shortened to just the 85 handle. If the price drops to $2875.90, a trader may say that the index has dropped ten handles.



In the foreign exchange markets, the minimum price movement is called a pip. Since many of the foreign exchange instruments are quoted out four or five decimal places, it is considered simpler to refer to the last two places when discussing the bids and asks, rather than include the handle, which tends to be known by the participants.


   Handles and Foreign Exchange Markets  

Foreign exchange encompasses an enormous range of transactions: everything from currency conversions by a traveler at an airport kiosk to billion-dollar international payments made by corporations, financial institutions, and governments. Specific examples include the financing of imports and exports, as well as speculative investment positions with no underlying goods or services. Increasing globalization has corresponded with a significant uptick in the number of foreign exchange transactions.



Amid the expansive global foreign exchange market, spot markets and forward markets are highly relevant for the term handle. Spot markets are markets for financial instruments such as commodities and securities that can be traded immediately or on the spot. Spot markets rely on spot prices or current market prices. This stands in contrast with the forwards market, which works with prices at a later date. In both cases, participants in these markets must understand the handle and stem of their price quotes.



Spot markets may be organized exchanges or over-the-counter (OTC) markets. Although the spot exchange rate is the earliest value date, in general, the standard settlement date for is two business days after the transaction date. Some exceptions exist, including transactions for crude oil. In this case, goods are sold at spot prices, but the physical delivery happens on a later date.
What Is a Hands-off Investor?  

A hands-off investor prefers to set an investment portfolio and make only minor changes for a long period of time. Many hands-off investors use index funds or target-date funds, which make only small and slow changes to their holdings and therefore do not require much monitoring.





Key Takeaways

A hands-off investor is a more passive investor who chooses to make asset allocations and other investment choices and then makes few changes as time progresses.A hands-off investor is more likely to be drawn to index funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), or target-date funds, than to picking individual stocks or other securities.A look at historic returns on the S&P 500 shows passively managed funds tend to outperform their actively managed counterparts over time.However, even a passively-managed portfolio will need to be adjusted periodically as the beneficiary hits certain milestones, such as retirement.


   Understanding a Hands-off Investor  

A hands-off investment strategy is well-suited to many retail investors who may not have the time needed to routinely monitor and research their investments. Hands-on, active management requires investors to continuously keep up-to-date on the positions that they hold. This often requires several hours of research per week. Active managers believe that by doing this work, they can earn higher-than-average returns on their investments.



A hands-off strategy is not necessarily underperforming. Many investors believe in an indexing approach, which posits that sticking with a well-diversified portfolio over the long term is the key to wealth.



Since index funds often have very low expense ratios, hands-off investors often enjoy a built-in advantage over active traders who pay more in trading commissions, lose out to the bid-ask spread and incur the higher tax rates on short-term capital gains and nonqualified dividends.


   Benefits and Drawbacks of Being a Hands-off Investor  

An ongoing study that compares investor returns to market returns, Dalbar’s Quantitative Analysis of Investor Behavior, affirms the benefits of a hands-off approach. Over the 20 years between 1997 and 2017, the average equity investor earned 5.29% per year while the S&P 500 Index gained 7.20% per year.



On a hypothetical $100,000 investment, the average investor would have earned approximately $120,000 less than a hands-off investor holding the S&P 500. The average fixed-income investor has done even worse, trailing the Bloomberg U.S. Aggregate Index by 4.54 percentage points per year, and making approximately $155,000 less over 20 years.


   Special Considerations  

The reasons for investor underperformance are myriad but attempting to time the market and behavioral biases like loss aversion are primary contributors. Dalbar correctly points out that an index is always in the market and always fully invested while investors may be on the sidelines waiting for the right moment to return to the market.



Hands-off investors can benefit from the price return of their investment but also from the reinvestment of dividends. For mutual fund investors, this approach enables investors to purchase more fund shares with their dividend proceeds.



Hands-off investors that are not in a target-date fund that adjusts its allocation over time could be taking on additional risk as they approach retirement. Without periodic rebalancing, a portfolio could become overweight in riskier equity investments, which could destroy wealth should a bear market occur in the last five to 10 years prior to retirement.



The hands-off investor will need a much more conservative portfolio in retirement that conserves capital with assets like cash and high-quality bonds and will likely need to engage in significant trading to achieve this.
What Is the Hang Seng Index (HSI)?  

The Hang Seng Index or HSI is a free-float market capitalization-weighted index of the sixty largest companies that trade on the Hong Kong Exchange (HKEx). HKEx is among the largest stock exchanges in the world, with an aggregate market cap of more than $38 trillion as of 2022.



It is widely considered the benchmark equity market index for Hong Kong, and often a barometer of Asian markets more generally.





Key Takeaways

The Hang Seng Index (HSI) is a benchmark for blue-chip stocks traded on the Hong Kong stock exchange.The index is composed of four sub-sector indices in industry, finance, utilities, and real estate investment trusts.The index uses a free-float market capitalization weighting scheme with a 10% cap on any one component's index weight.


   Understanding the Hang Seng Index  

The Hang Seng is the most widely quoted barometer for the Hong Kong economy and is often used as a market benchmark for Hong Kong investors. Because of Hong Kong's status as a special administrative region of China, there are close ties between the two economies, and many Chinese companies are listed on the Hong Kong Exchange.



The index aims to capture the leadership of the Hong Kong exchange and covers approximately 65% of its total market capitalization.


   How the Hang Seng Index Is Structured  

The HSI is a free-float-adjusted market capitalization-weighted index that is calculated and disseminated in real-time at two-second intervals during the trading hours of the Hong Kong stock exchange (HKEx). The HSI is classified as a price index without adjustments made for cash dividends or warrant bonuses.



An 8% capping is applied to avoid any single stock domination of the index. The index targets 60 stocks, but the exact number of constituents can vary slightly at any given time. As of April 2022, there were, in fact, 66 stocks in the index. A committee convenes quarterly to evaluate the index components and decide if companies should be added or removed.






The largest constituents of the Hang Seng Index include Tencent, Alibaba, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, Meituan, and the China Construction Bank.



Hang Seng members also fall into one of four sub-indexes, including commerce and industry, finance, utilities, and properties.



The Hang Seng HK 35 is a sub-index of just the top 35 Hong-Kong based companies that also generate most of their revenues outside of mainland China. The Hang Seng Composite is an index of the top 95% of stocks trading on the Hong Kong exchange by market cap, comprising around 500 stocks.






A subsidiary of the Hang Seng Bank maintains the Hang Seng Index and has done so since 1969.


   Hang Seng Components  

The top thirty holdings in the Hang Seng Index as of April 2022 were (in no particular order):



China Mengniu Dairy Company LimitedCITIC LimitedTechtronic Industries Company LimitedIndustrial and Commercial Bank of China LimitedChina Petroleum & Chemical CorporationNew World Development Company LimitedCLP Holdings LimitedThe Hong Kong and China Gas Company LimitedCSPC Pharmaceutical Group LimitedGalaxy Entertainment Group LimitedHengan International Group Company LimitedHenderson Land Development Company LimitedChina Resources Land LimitedCK Infrastructure Holdings LimitedENN Energy Holdings LimitedChina Life Insurance Company LimitedANTA Sports Products LimitedCNOOC LimitedNongfu Spring Co., Ltd.Li Ning Company LimitedLenovo Group LimitedHang Lung Properties LimitedCountry Garden Services Holdings Company LimitedXiaomi CorporationAAC Technologies Holdings Inc.WuXi Biologics (Cayman) Inc.Alibaba Health Information Technology LimitedMeituanJD.com, Inc.Alibaba Group Holding Limited




How Many Stocks Are in the Hang Seng Index?
The Hang Seng Index (HSI) is composed of the 60 largest stocks traded on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, although at any given time, there may be slightly more or less than 60. The Hong Kong Exchange, for reference, has the stocks of around 2,500 companies listed.




How Do You Invest In the Hang Seng Index?
If you don't live in Hong Kong, you can still invest in the HSI via Hong Kong ETFs such as the iShares MSCI Hong Kong ETF (EWH) and the Franklin FTSE Hong Kong ETF (FLHK). The KraneShares Hong Kong Tech ETF (KTEC) tracks 30 high-tech stocks in the Hang Seng Composite.




What Is the Biggest Stock Market in Asia?
Japan's stock exchange is the largest equity market in Asia, and second place belongs to the Shanghai Stock Exchange in mainland China. The Honk Kong Exchange comes in third, followed by China's Shenzen Exchange.
What is a Hanging Man Candlestick?  

A hanging man candlestick occurs during an uptrend and warns that prices may start falling. The candle is composed of a small real body, a long lower shadow, and little or no upper shadow. The hanging man shows that selling interest is starting to increase. In order for the pattern to be valid, the candle following the hanging man must see the price of the asset decline.





Key Takeaways


A hanging man is a bearish reversal candlestick pattern that occurs after a price advance. The advance can be small or large, but should be composed of at least a few price bars moving higher overall. 
The candle must have a small real body and a long lower shadow that is at least twice the size as the real body. There is little or no upper shadow. 
The close of the hanging man can be above or below open, it just needs to be near the open so the real body is small.
The long lower shadow of the hanging man shows that sellers were able to take control for part of the trading period. 
The hanging man pattern is just a warning. The price must move lower on the next candle in order for the hanging man to be a valid reversal pattern. This is called confirmation.
Traders typically exit long trades or enter short trades during or after the confirmation candle, not before. 



   What Does the Hanging Man Candlestick Tell You?  

A hanging man represents a large sell-off after the open which sends the price plunging, but then buyers push the price back up to near the opening price. Traders view a hanging man as a sign that the bulls are beginning to lose control and that the asset may soon enter a downtrend.



The hanging man pattern occurs after the price has been moving higher for at least a few candlesticks. This does not need to be a major advance. It may be, but the pattern can also occur within a short-term rise amidst a larger downtrend.



The hanging man looks like a "T", although the appearance of the candle is only a warning and not necessarily a reason to act.



The hanging man pattern is not confirmed unless the price falls the next period or shortly after. After the hanging man, the price should not close above the high price of the hanging man candle, as that signals another price advance potentially. If the price falls following the hanging man, that confirms the pattern and candlestick traders use it as a signal to exit long positions or enter short positions.



If entering a new short position after the hanging man has been confirmed, a stop loss can be placed above the high of the hanging man candle.



The hanging man, and candlesticks in general, are not often used in isolation. Rather they are used in conjunction with other forms of analysis, such as price or trend analysis, or technical indicators.



Hanging men occur on all time frames, from one-minute charts right up to weekly and monthly charts.


   Example of How to Use a Hanging Man Candlestick  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The chart shows a price decline, followed by a short-term rise in prices where a hanging man candle forms. Following the hanging man, the price drops on the next candle, providing the confirmation needed to complete the pattern. During or after the confirmation candle traders could enter short trades.



The example highlights that the hanging man doesn't need to come after a prolonged advance. Rather it can potentially mark the end of a short-term rally within a longer-term downtrend.


   The Difference Between the Hanging Man and Hammer Candlesticks  

The hanging man and the hammer candlesticks look identical. The only difference is the context. The hammer is a bottoming pattern that forms after a price decline. The hammer-shape shows strong selling during the period, but by the close the buyers have regained control. This signals a possible bottom is near and the price could start heading higher if confirmed by upward movement on the following candle. The hanging man occurs after a price advance and warns of potentially lower prices to come.


   Limitations of Using the Hanging Man Candlestick  

One of the limitations of the hanging man, and many candlestick patterns, is that waiting for confirmation can result in a poor entry point. The price can move so quickly within the two periods that the potential reward from the trade may no longer justify the risk.



The reward can also be hard to quantify at the start of the trade since candlestick patterns don't typically provide profit targets. Instead, traders need to use other candlesticks patterns or trading strategies to exit any trade that is initiated via the hanging man pattern.



There is also no assurance the price will decline after a hanging man forms, even if there is a confirmation candle. This is why placing a stop loss, to control risk, above the high of the hanging man is recommend when a short trade is initiated.
What Is Happiness Economics?  

Happiness economics is the formal academic study of the relationship between individual satisfaction and economic issues such as employment and wealth.





Key Takeaways

Happiness economics is the formal academic study of the relationship between individual satisfaction and economic issues such as employment and wealth.The main tools used include surveys and indices tracking what different economies offer their residents.Happiness economics apples econometric analysis to discover which factors might increase or decrease human well-being and quality of life.Happiness economics suffers from several shortcomings which lead many economists to question its value over established economic research methods.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Understanding Happiness Economics  

Where standard economics relies on measurements of income and consumption or other observed behaviors to demonstrate the immeasurable concept of utility, or the satisfaction of material wants and needs, happiness economics uses surveys and related methods to elicit people to directly reveal their level of satisfaction. Happiness economics apples econometric analysis to discover which factors might increase or decrease human well-being and quality of life.



Happiness economics is a relatively new branch of research. Mainstream economics has long relied on the concept of utility, the enjoyment that people experience from the satisfactions of wants and needs. However, because the subjective, internal experience of happiness, joy, or felt unease cannot be directly observed or measured by an external observer, economists rely on observing people's actions to reveal what gives the utility.



To measure this utility, economists use various observable proxies, mostly market prices in terms of money, to indicate how much utility people experience from various economic goods or activities. The basic idea is that measuring the amount of money that people are willing to pay or accept for various goods and services on a market demonstrates the amount of utility they expect to receive from those things. This also means that economists often use indicators like a person's income or total consumption to indicate their total utility.



Happiness economics is an attempt to overcome certain shortcomings of this traditional approach by trying to measure utility, or happiness, more directly. One major shortcoming of traditional utility theory is that because it relies on observed market prices, quantities, and incomes, it cannot account for the enjoyment that people receive from goods, services, activities, or amenities that occur outside of markets.



This means that impact on human happiness of anything that is not or cannot be traded on a market will be at best difficult or impossible to measure. It also assumes that the observed market prices and quantities capture the full value of those goods and services that are traded on markets, which may not always be the case. Those who study happiness economics argue that it is essential to examine factors affecting quality of life, beyond typical areas of economic studies such as income and wealth.



Happiness economics seeks to overcome these problems mainly by asking people to fill out surveys that directly ask people to rank or score the happiness they receive or to reveal how much they might be willing to pay or accept for things that do not have explicit market prices. They also analyze indices tracking the quality of life in different countries, focusing on factors such as access to health care, life expectancy, literacy levels, political freedom, gross domestic product (GDP) per capita, cost of living, social support, and pollution levels.





Important

Collecting data on happiness can serve a number of purposes, including helping governments to design better public policies.


   Happiness Economics Indices  

Over the past 30 or so years, a number of happiness economics metrics have emerged. Common ones include Gross Domestic Happiness (GDH) and happiness indices that aim to track the well-being of people living in several countries in the world.



According to the 2021 World Happiness report, the happiest countries are:



FinlandIcelandDenmarkSwitzerlandNetherlandsSwedenGermanyNorway New Zealand Austria



Europe, home to most of the countries topping the 2021 list, is particularly engaged with happiness economics. The region’s Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) gathers data on happiness economics and ranks its 35 member countries based on factors such as housing, income, employment, education, environment, civic engagement, and health.


   Criticism of Happiness Economics  

Happiness economics has several major problems in terms of theory, method, and application. Economists have traditionally eschewed survey research methods as unreliable. Surveys are known to be prone to numerous biases. For one, respondents can answer survey however they want, with no actual consequence or trade-off required, which often leads to paradoxical results.



A classic example of this is that survey respondents will routinely respond that they support increasing total public services spending and will also respond that they oppose tax increases to pay for that increased spending. By measuring utility through observed market phenomena, where people have real skin in the game and have to acknowledge scarcity and make trade-offs, the traditional economic approach avoids these kind of problems.



The results of happiness economics research is often found to be redundant or duplicative of simply measuring human well-being using more objective measures such as income, GDP per capita, or direct observation of the quality of economic institutions. The research of happiness economics has generally found that people in wealthier countries with high-quality institutions tend to be happier than people in countries with less wealth and poorer institutions. Simple comparison of self-reported life satisfaction and real GDP per capita shows a strong, positive correlation that is consistent over time. This suggests that simply referring to GDP per capita already measures happiness, and that attempts to directly measure happiness are a waste of time.



These and other criticisms lead many economics to see happiness economics as an inferior way of measuring human welfare compared to established methods.

What Is a Harami Cross?  

A harami cross is a Japanese candlestick pattern that consists of a large candlestick that moves in the direction of the trend, followed by a small doji candlestick. The doji is completely contained within the prior candlestick’s body. The harami cross pattern suggests that the previous trend may be about to reverse. The pattern can be either bullish or bearish. The bullish pattern signals a possible price reversal to the upside, while the bearish pattern signals a possible price reversal to the downside.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020





Key Takeaways

A bullish harami cross is a large down candle followed by a doji. It occurs during a downtrend.The bullish harami cross is confirmed by a price move higher following the pattern.A bearish harami cross is a large up candle followed by a doji. It occurs during an uptrend.The bearish pattern is confirmed by a price move lower following the pattern.


   Understanding the Harami Cross  

A bullish harami cross pattern forms after a downtrend. The first candlestick is a long down candle (typically colored black or red) which indicates that the sellers are in control. The second candle, the doji, has a narrow range and opens above the previous day’s close. The doji candlestick closes near to the price it opened at. The doji must be completely contained with the real body of the previous candle.



The doji shows that some indecision has entered the minds of sellers. Typically, traders don't act on the pattern unless the price follows through to the upside within the next couple of candles. This is called confirmation. Sometimes the price may pause for a few candles after the doji, and then rise or fall. A rise above the open of the first candle helps confirm that the price may be heading higher.



A bearish harami cross forms after an uptrend. The first candlestick is a long up candle (typically colored white or green) which shows buyers are in control. This is followed by a doji, which shows indecision on the part of the buyers. Once again, the doji must be contained within the real body of the prior candle.



If the price drops following the pattern, this confirms the pattern. If the price continues to rise following the doji, the bearish pattern is invalidated.


   Harami Cross Enhancers  

For a bullish harami cross, some traders may act on the pattern as it forms, while others will wait for confirmation. Confirmation is a price move higher following the pattern. In addition to confirmation, traders may also give a bullish harami cross more weight or significance if it occurs at a major support level. If it does, there is a greater chance of a larger price move to the upside, especially if there is no nearby resistance overhead.



Traders may also watch other technical indicators, such as the relative strength index (RSI) moving up from oversold territory, or confirmation of a move higher from other indicators.



For a bearish harami cross, some traders prefer waiting for the price to move lower following the pattern before acting on it. In addition, the pattern may be more significant if occurs near a major resistance level. Other technical indicators, such as an RSI moving lower from overbought territory, may help confirm the bearish price move.


   Trading the Harami Cross Pattern  

It is not required to trade the harami cross. Some traders use it simply as an alert to be on the lookout for a reversal. If already long, a trader may take profits if a bearish harami cross appears and then the price starts dropping after the pattern. Or, a trader in a short position may look to exit if a bullish harami cross appears and then the price starts rising shortly after.



Some traders may opt to enter positions once the harami cross appears. If entering long on a bullish harami cross, a stop loss can be placed below the doji low or below the low of the first candlestick. A possible place to enter the long is when the price moves above the open of the first candle.



If entering a short, a stop loss can be placed above the high of the doji or above the high of the first candle. One possible place to enter the trade is when the price drops below the first candle open.



Harami cross patterns don't have profit targets. Therefore, traders need to use some other method of determining when to exit a profitable trade. Some options include using a trailing stop loss, finding an exit with Fibonacci extensions or retracements, or using a risk/reward ratio.


   Example of a Harami Cross  

The following chart shows a bearish harami cross in American Airlines Group Inc. (AAL). The price had been falling in an overall downtrend, but then flattened out into a large range. The price moved higher into a resistance area where it formed a bearish harami pattern. Following the pattern, the price moved lower. This provided confirmation and an opportunity to exit longs or enter short positions.















Bearish Harami Cross on Daily Chart.
 Investopedia



The price continued lower for a couple of weeks before reversing and then breaking above the resistance level.
What Is a Hard Asset?  

A hard asset refers to a tangible asset or resource with fundamental value. Examples of hard assets include a fleet of trucks for the delivery of consumer goods, land, real estate, and commodities. Businesses purchase hard assets to help improve production, increase revenues, and act as a buffer against soft asset losses. However, sometimes the value of hard assets decreases in tandem with the value of soft assets.





Key Takeaways

A hard asset is a tangible or physical item or resource that an individual or company owns.Often, the value of hard assets moves in the opposite direction of the value of soft assets, creating a buffer against losses.Hard assets can be long-term assets, such as machinery or short-term assets, such as raw materials or inventory.


   Understanding Hard Assets  

Hard assets are usually fixed assets, meaning they're long-term assets that aid in the production of a company's goods and services. Fixed assets have a life of more than one year. Hard assets are typically classified as property, plant, and equipment on a company's balance sheet.



Some examples of hard assets include:



BuildingsVehicles such as trucks or carsMachinery and equipmentOffice furnitureMachinery



However, hard assets can also be short-term assets, called current assets, which are typically used up within one year. Inventory, for example, could be a hard asset for a company. If a company manufactures machinery, the raw materials or inventory, such as the machine parts, would be hard assets.


  Paying for Hard Assets  

Hard assets that are fixed assets usually involve capital investment decisions for a company's executive management team. These assets usually involve a large outlay of cash or capital and as a result, are considered long-term funding decisions. The funding for big-ticket hard assets can come from banks, venture capital firms, issuance of corporate bonds or debt, as well as issuing new shares of stock. The capital investment of hard assets, such as a new manufacturing plant means the company plans to use the facility for many years to generate revenue.


  The Value of Hard Assets  

Hard assets are considered particularly valuable because they can be used to produce or purchase other goods or services. They can also be sold to generate cash in the event the company has financial difficulties. When analysts calculate a company's intrinsic value, a portion of this underlying value is derived from the value of its hard assets.



The intrinsic value of a company is a calculation of a company's value using various models that include analyzing a company's cash flow, assets, future revenue streams, and its cost structure. Hard assets come into play when valuing a company since they can be sold for cash to pay off debts, bondholders, and shareholders in the event of financial distress or liquidation.


   Hard Assets vs. Intangible Assets  

Hard assets are the opposite of intangible assets, which are non-physical assets that are used over the long-term. Examples of intangible assets include:



A brand of a companyInvestments in securitiesTrademarksPatentsCopyrightsFranchises



Technology companies tend to have many intangible assets since they have patents for their products, as well as significant capital tied up in research and development. On the other hand, oil-producing companies have many hard assets, such as oil rigs and drilling machinery.


  Example of Hard Assets  

Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F) is a US automotive company that produces various cars and trucks. The company's executive management team is looking to buy new machinery for their assembly line. The company will also purchase steel and aluminum for the rivets. All of the assets, the machinery, steel, and aluminum are considered hard assets.



The assembly machinery is a long-term hard asset. On the other hand, the steel and aluminum raw materials are current assets since their inventory will likely be used up within one year. Also, any patents on the equipment are considered intangible assets.
What Is Hard Call Protection?  

Hard call protection, or absolute call protection, is a provision in a callable bond whereby the issuer cannot exercise the call and redeem the bond before the specified date, usually three to five years from the date of issuance.





Key Takeaways

Hard call protection, or absolute call protection, is a provision in a callable bond whereby the issuer cannot exercise the call and redeem the bond before the specified date, usually three to five years from the date of issuance.Hard call protection serves as a sweetener as it guarantees investors will receive the stated return for protected period before the bond is "free" to be called.Callable bonds with a hard call protection should be valued by using the yield-to-call method.


   Understanding Hard Call Protection  

Investors who purchase bonds are paid interest (coupon rate) for the duration of the bond's life. When the bond matures, bondholders are repaid the principal value equivalent to the face value of the bond. Interest rates and bond prices have an inverse relationship—when the bond price declines, then yields rise, and vice versa. While bondholders prefer to invest in bonds with higher rates, as this translates into high interest income payments, issuers would rather sell bonds with lower rates to reduce their cost of borrowing.



Thus, when interest rates decrease, issuers will retire the existing bonds before they mature and refinance the debt at the lower interest reflected in the economy. Bonds that are repaid prior to maturity stop paying interest, forcing investors to find interest income in some other investment, usually at a lower interest rate (reinvestment risk). To protect callable bondholders from having their bonds repaid too early, most trust indentures include a hard call protection.



A hard call protection is the period of time during which an issuer cannot "call" its bonds. Callable corporate and municipal bonds usually have ten years of call protection, while protection on utility debt is often limited to five years. For example, consider a bond that is issued with 15 years to maturity and a five-year call protection. This means that for the first five years of the bond's life, regardless of the movement of interest rates, the bond issuer cannot redeem the bond by repaying the bond's principal balance. The hard call protection serves as a sweetener as it guarantees investors will receive the stated return for five years before the bond is "free" to be called.



Since the investor is taking the risk of the bond being called prior to maturity, brokers will usually provide yield-to-hard call as well as yield-to-maturity figures when a callable bond is being purchased. An investor should base their decisions on the lower of these two yields, which is usually the yield to the hard call date.



After the hard call protection period expires, the bond may continue to be partially protected by soft call protection. This feature requires certain conditions to exist before the bond can be called. Soft call protection is usually a premium to par that the issuer must pay to call in the bonds before maturity. For example, the issuer may be required to repay investors a percentage over the full face value (say 105%) of the bond on the first call date. A soft call provision may also specify that the issuer cannot call a bond that is trading above its issue price. In the case of convertible callable bonds, a soft call protection would prevent the issuer from calling the bond until the price of the underlying stock rose to a certain percentage above the conversion price.



Callable bonds pay a higher return because of the risk that the issuer will redeem them before maturity. A retail note is an example of a type of bond that commonly includes hard call protection.
What is Hard Currency?  

Hard currency refers to money that is issued by a nation that is seen as politically and economically stable. Hard currencies are widely accepted around the world as a form of payment for goods and services and may be preferred over the domestic currency.


   Understanding Hard Currency  

A hard currency is expected to remain relatively stable through a short period of time, and to be highly liquid in the forex or foreign exchange (FX) market. The most tradable currencies in the world are the U.S. dollar (USD), European euro (EUR), Japanese yen (JPY), British pound (GBP), Swiss franc (CHF), Canadian dollar (CAD) and the Australian dollar (AUD).﻿﻿ All of these currencies have the confidence of international investors and businesses because they are not generally prone to dramatic depreciation or appreciation.



The U.S. dollar stands out in particular as it enjoys status as the world's foreign reserve currency.﻿﻿ For this reason, many international transactions are done in U.S. dollars. Moreover, if a country's currency begins to soften, citizens will begin holding U.S. dollars and other safe haven currencies to protect their wealth.





Key Takeaways


Hard currencies act as a liquid store of wealth and a safe haven when domestic currencies struggle.
Hard currencies come from countries with stable economies and political systems.
The opposite of hard currency is a soft currency.



   Example of Hard Currencies in Action  

Within the hard currency group, the Canadian and Australian dollars are sensitive to commodity prices but they weather these dips better than other countries much more dependent on commodities. For example, the collapse of energy prices in 2014 hurt both the Australian and Canadian markets, but it was far more devastating for the Russian ruble. That said, a depreciation in a nation's currency is usually result of either an increase in the money supply or a loss of confidence in its future ability as a store of constant value, because of either economic, financial or governmental concerns. A striking example of an unstable or a soft currency is the Argentinian peso, which in 2015, lost 34.6% of its value against the dollar, making it highly unattractive to foreign investors.﻿﻿



The value of a currency is mostly based off of economic fundamentals such as gross domestic product (GDP) and employment. The international strength of the U.S. dollar is reflective of America's GDP which, as of 2019 current prices, stands first in the world at $21.37 trillion. China and India have the second and fifth, respectively, ranked GDPs in the world at $14.34 trillion and $2.88 trillion, but neither the Chinese yuan nor the Indian rupee is considered a hard currency.﻿﻿ This underscores how central bank policies and stability in a country's money supply also factor into exchange rates. There is also a clear preference for mature democracies with a transparent legal system.


   Downsides of a Hard Currency  

Hard currencies are more valuable than other currencies. For instance, as of Nov. 6, 2020, the FX market traded at a rate of 6.61 yuan per U.S. dollar and 73.97 rupee per dollar.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ These exchange rates are detrimental for Chinese and Indian importers but positive for current account balances. A weak exchange rate helps a country's exporters because it makes exports more competitive (or cheaper) in international commodity and other markets. In recent years, China has faced accusations of manipulating its exchange rate to deflate prices and seize a greater share of international markets.
What Are Hard Dollars?  

Hard dollars are cash fees or payments made by an investor or customer to a brokerage firm in return for their services. Hard dollar payments are usually set amounts that are known before a customer begins dealing with a broker.



Hard dollar payments include set transaction charges, monthly account maintenance charges, as well as paying for research provided by the brokerage firm.


   Understanding Hard Dollars  

If an investor requires research from a brokerage, they can pay for those services via a cash payment. This would be considered a hard dollar payment for services. However, if the investor wants to pay a few with commission dollars available with another brokerage firm, the customer can allocate some of those commission dollars towards another brokerage firm to pay for services or research. This type of payment is known as soft dollars.


   Example of Hard Dollars  

For example, if a client is looking to receive research from a broker or investment bank, they will usually pay for the research by trading with the broker and generating commission dollars. However, if the client doesn't have a trading relationship with the bank or broker, they can send along a check for payment. This would be considered hard dollars.



If the client has a soft dollar arrangement with another broker, meaning they have commission funds set aside to pay for research and other needs, they can direct the soft dollar broker to pay another broker for research. If the client, rather than sending a hard check, directs the soft dollar broker to pay a firm for their research, this would be a soft dollar payment.



In other words, hard dollars differ from soft dollar payments because soft dollar payments are paid within the commission revenue from making trades or deducted from the value of any other transactions. Another way to look at it is that hard dollar payments are physical 'actual' payments in cash, whereas soft dollars are paid with commission dollars generated with a soft dollar broker.
What Is a Hard Fork?  

A hard fork (or hardfork), as it relates to blockchain technology, is a radical change to a network's protocol that makes previously invalid blocks and transactions valid, or vice-versa. A hard fork requires all nodes or users to upgrade to the latest version of the protocol software.



Forks may be initiated by developers or members of a crypto community who grow dissatisfied with functionalities offered by existing blockchain implementations. They may also emerge as a way to crowdsource funding for new technology projects or cryptocurrency offerings.



A hard fork can be contrasted with a soft fork.





Key Takeaways

A hard fork refers to a radical change to the protocol of a blockchain network that effectively results in two branches, one that follows the previous protocol and one that follows the new version.In a hard fork, holders of tokens in the original blockchain will be granted tokens in the new fork as well, but miners must choose which blockchain to continue verifying.A hard fork can occur in any blockchain, and not only Bitcoin (where hard forks have created Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin SV, among several others, for example).


   Understanding a Hard Fork  

A hard fork is when nodes of the newest version of a blockchain no longer accept the older version(s) of the blockchain; which creates a permanent divergence from the previous version of the blockchain.



Adding a new rule to the code essentially creates a fork in the blockchain: one path follows the new, upgraded blockchain, and the other path continues along the old path. Generally, after a short time, those on the old chain will realize that their version of the blockchain is outdated or irrelevant and quickly upgrade to the latest version.


   How Forks Work  

A fork in a blockchain can occur in any crypto-technology platform—not only Bitcoin. That is because blockchains and cryptocurrency work in basically the same way no matter which crypto platform they're on. You may think of the blocks in blockchains as cryptographic keys that move memory. Because the miners in a blockchain set the rules that move the memory in the network, these miners understand the new rules.



However, all of the miners need to agree about the new rules and about what comprises a valid block in the chain. So when you want to change those rules you need to "fork it"—like a fork in a road—to indicate that there's been a change in or a diversion to the protocol. The developers can then update all of the software to reflect the new rules.



It is through this forking process that various digital currencies with names similar to bitcoin have come to be: bitcoin cash, bitcoin gold, and others. For the casual cryptocurrency investor, it can be difficult to tell the difference between these cryptocurrencies and to map the various forks onto a timeline. To help sort this out, we have composed a history of the most important bitcoin hard forks of the past several years. Additionally, those looking to get involved with one of the best cryptocurrency exchanges need to tread carefully when investing in currencies like Bitcoin so as not to waste time and money on the wrong digital currency.






As the graphic below displays, nodes that are not upgraded reject the new rules, which creates a divergence, or hard fork, in the blockchain.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   Reasons For a Hard Fork?  

There are a number of reasons why developers may implement a hard fork, such as correcting important security risks found in older versions of the software, to add new functionality, or to reverse transactions—such as when the Ethereum blockchain created a hard fork to reverse the hack on the Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO).



After the hack, the Ethereum community almost unanimously voted in favor of a hard fork to roll back transactions that siphoned off tens of millions of dollars worth of digital currency by an anonymous hacker. The hard fork also helped DAO token holders get their ether (ETH) funds returned.



The proposal for a hard fork did not exactly unwind the network’s transaction history. Rather, it relocated the funds tied to the DAO to a newly created smart contract with the single purpose of letting the original owners withdraw their funds. 



DAO token holders could withdraw ETH at a rate of approximately 1 ETH to 100 DAO. The extra balance of tokens and any ether that remained as a result of the hard fork was withdrawn and distributed by the DAO curators to provide "failsafe protection" for the organization.


   Hard Forks vs. Soft Forks  

Hard forks and soft forks are essentially the same in the sense that when a cryptocurrency platform's existing code is changed, an old version remains on the network while the new version is created.



With a soft fork, only one blockchain will remain valid as users adopt the update. Whereas with a hard fork, both the old and new blockchains exist side by side, which means that the software must be updated to work by the new rules. Both forks create a split, but a hard fork creates two blockchains and a soft fork is meant to result in one. 



Considering the differences in security between hard and soft forks, almost all users and developers call for a hard fork, even when a soft fork seems like it could do the job. Overhauling the blocks in a blockchain requires a tremendous amount of computing power, but the privacy gained from a hard fork makes more sense than using a soft fork.
What Is a Hard Inquiry?  

A hard inquiry is a request by a lender to obtain your full credit report from a credit bureau. Hard inquiries typically occur when you apply for a loan or other form of credit, and they can result in a small and temporary decrease in your credit score. "Hard pull" and "hard credit check" are other names for a hard inquiry.





Key Takeaways

A hard inquiry is when a lender requests your credit report after you've applied for a loan or other form of credit.Hard inquiries can cause a small and brief dip in your credit score.Soft inquires happen when a lender or other business pulls your credit report entirely on its own initiative.


   How a Hard Inquiry Works  

When you apply for a loan, line of credit, or credit card, the lender will typically request a copy of your credit report from one or more of the three major credit bureaus, Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion.



The credit bureaus obtain their information from your current and previous creditors. Because not every creditor reports to all three bureaus (and some don't report to any of them), you credit reports can vary from one bureau to another. In the case of large loans, such as home mortgages, the lender may request all three reports before it makes its decision in order to get as complete a picture of you as possible.



These requests are known as hard inquiries.



Any type of hard credit inquiry will be noted on your credit report, causing a small credit score decrease. Hard inquiries remain on your credit report for two years, although they have no effect on your credit score after one year.



If you have many hard inquiries in a short time period, some lenders may take that as a red flag that you are in desperate need of money. You may also see a substantial drop in your credit score.



However, lenders (and credit scoring models) make allowances in some situations. For example, most FICO credit scores "are not affected by multiple inquiries from auto, mortgage, or student loan lenders within a short period of time. Typically, these are treated as a single inquiry and will have little impact on your credit scores," FICO says.



FICO has multiple scoring models, and that "short period of time" can vary from one to another; in the latest models it is 45 days.



As the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau explains, "The impact on your credit is the same no matter how many lenders you consult, as long as the last credit check is within 45 days of the first credit check. Even if a lender needs to check your credit after the 45-day window is over, shopping around is usually still worth it. The impact of an additional inquiry is small, while shopping around for the best deal can save you a lot of money in the long run."



What's more, FICO says, its scoring models ignore inquiries relating to mortgage, auto, and student loans, "made in the 30 days prior to scoring. So, if you find a loan within 30 days, the inquiries won't affect your scores while you're rate shopping."



The reason for these exceptions is that you are presumably looking for a single loan at the best possible terms, not trying to obtain multiple loans at the same time.






Unlike hard inquiries, soft credit inquiries have no effect on your credit score.


   Hard Inquiry vs. Soft Inquiry  

In addition to hard inquiries, lenders and other interested businesses can make so-called soft inquiries to request your credit reports. Unlike a hard inquiry, a soft inquiry is not triggered by your applying for credit. In fact, you may not even know it is happening.



Examples of soft inquiries include requests by your current creditors to see your file or by prospective lenders that are looking for good prospects for credit card offers—a process known as prescreening. When you request your own credit report, that's considered a soft inquiry, as well.



If your employer or a potential employer requests your credit report, that also counts as a soft inquiry. However, you will most likely know about it because employers are required to get your permission in writing first.



Soft inquiries have no effect on your credit score. They can appear on your credit report, TransUnion says, but only you will be able to see them.


   Other Information Lenders May Request  

While your credit report contains a lot of information about your use of credit, it doesn't tell potential lenders or other interested parties everything they might want to know about your financial situation.



For example, it doesn't include your income. Nor does it have information on your investments or other assets, such as bank accounts. If a lender wants that information it will have to obtain it in some other way, such as by asking questions on your loan application and requesting satisfactory back-up, such as pay stubs, tax forms, investment statements, and bank statements.



Credit reports also lack certain personal information, such as your marital status, education, and medical history.



In addition, your credit report does not contain your credit score, which lenders and others must obtain separately.




Who Can Request Your Credit Report?
Who's allowed access to your credit report is governed by the Fair Credit Reporting Act. According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, "A consumer reporting agency may provide information about you only to people with a valid need — usually to consider an application with a creditor, insurer, employer, landlord, or other business." Employers must typically obtain your permission in writing.




How Can You Request Your Credit Report?
By law you're entitled to a free copy of your credit report at least once a year from each of the three major credit bureaus. The official website for all three is AnnualCreditReport.com. Note that if you find any errors in a credit report—particularly ones that might be damaging to your credit score—you can dispute that information with the credit bureau. It is required to investigate the matter and report back to you on its findings.




How Can You Prevent Prescreening?
While prescreening by credit card and insurance companies results only in soft inquiries, if you wish to prevent it for privacy reasons or to lessen the amount of junk mail you receive, you can do so on the website OptOutPrescreen.com.




What Is a Credit Freeze?
A credit freeze allows you to stop third parties, with some exceptions, from looking at your credit report. You can request a freeze for free but must contact each credit bureau separately to do so.


   The Bottom Line  

Hard inquiries happen when you apply for a loan or other form of credit and the lender requests your credit report. While hard inquiries can have a negative impact on your credit score, the effect is usually small and only temporary and shouldn't deter you from applying for credit when you really need it.
What Is a Hard Landing?  

A hard landing refers to a marked economic slowdown or downturn following a period of rapid growth. The term "hard landing" comes from aviation, where it refers to the kind of high-speed landing that—while not an actual crash—is a source of stress as well as potential damage and injury. The metaphor is used for high-flying economies that run into a sudden, sharp check on their growth, such as a monetary policy intervention meant to curb inflation. Economies that experience a hard landing often slip into a stagnant period or even recession.





Key Takeaways


   Understanding Hard Landings  

A hard landing can be contrasted to to a soft landing, which is considered to be a more desirable goal for economic policy makers. To achieve a soft landing, government official and central banks will gradually reduce expansionary fiscal and monetary policy in an attempt to curb price inflation without sacrificing jobs or unnecessarily inflicting economic pain on people and corporations carrying debt.



Unfortunately, the more dependent the economy has become on fiscal stimulus or easy money, the more the more difficult it becomes to wean off of expansionary policy ,and the more vulnerable the economy becomes to a hard landing due to even minor checks on expansionary policy. So, typically, the longer a policy-induced boom in the economy runs or the larger an easy money-fueled market bubble becomes, the more difficult it is for officials to gradually withdraw expansionary policy support to engineer a soft landing.



This results hard landing, where slowing down or stopping expansionary macroeconomic policy can precipitate a stock market crash, financial crisis, or a collapse of investor confidence. Due to recognition, response, and implementation lags in macroeconomic policy, these events can spiral into a general recession too quickly for policy makers to mount an effective defense.



The Federal Reserve, for example, has hiked interest rates at several points in its history at a pace that the market found unpalatable, leading the economy to slow and/or enter a period of recession. Most recently, there was a hard landing in 2007 resulting from the Fed tightening monetary policy to cool the residential real estate market. The fallout was spectacular, with a Great Recession rather than just a recession, but it is difficult to imagine how a soft landing could take place when the speculative bubble had grown so large.


   China's Oft Mentioned Hard Landing  

The term hard landing has often been applied to China, which has enjoyed decades of preternaturally high gross domestic product (GDP) growth rates that—to some observers—have set it up for a hard landing. High levels of debt, particularly at the local government level, are often pointed to as a potential catalyst for a downturn, as are high property prices in many Chinese cities.







In late 2015, following a rapid devaluation of the yuan and softening trade volumes, many observers feared a Chinese hard landing: Société Générale put the odds of at 30%. However, trade volumes recovered and currency markets stabilized. In 2019, the talk of a Chinese hard landing resurfaced with the crackdown on shadow finance and speculation on what the loss of that credit source will do to Chinese businesses, growth, and jobs. Of course, it is worth noting that China has yet to experience a hard landing, while all the western powers predicting it on their behalf have been through a few.
What Is a Hard Loan?  

A hard loan is a foreign loan that must be paid in hard currency, which is the currency of a nation that has political stability and a reputation for economic strength. For example, a country classified as a developing country may borrow via a hard loan denominated in U.S. dollars.





Key Takeaways

A hard loan occurs when a foreign borrower takes a loan denominated in a hard currency, such as a reserve currency like the U.S. dollar.Hard loans are often taken out by borrowers in developing countries, since loans denominated in less stable currencies can be risky for lenders.Currency volatility can harm borrowers in hard loans since a devalued currency will make it more expensive to repay the loan.


   How a Hard Loan Works  

A hard loan is a type of loan between a lender and borrower occurring in two different counties, and which is denominated in the hard currency. Hard currency refers to a monetary system or reserve currency that is widely accepted around the world as a form of payment for goods and services. It usually comes from a country that has strong economic and political standing, and it may not be the currency of either the borrower or the lender. A hard loan substantially reduces the risk that would exist if the loan were denominated in less-stable currencies.



There are some risks, however. If the borrower's home currency falls dramatically against the hard currency they may have great difficulty repaying the loan. For instance, if a Brazilian manufacturer takes out a hard loan denominated in euros, and the euro strengthens by 20% against the real over the life of the loan, it will effectively increase the interest rate on the loan by 20%, as well as the principal amount.


   Forex Considerations on Hard Loans  

What allows a currency to qualify as hard? It is expected to remain relatively stable through a short period of time and to be highly liquid in the foreign exchange—or forex (FX)—market, in which currencies are traded. The forex market is the largest, most liquid market in the world, with average traded values of trillions of dollars per day.﻿﻿﻿﻿ It includes all of the currencies in the world.



Forex transactions take place on either a spot or forward basis and are executed over the counter and around the clock. There is no centralized market for forex transactions. The largest foreign exchange markets are located in major financial centers, such as London, New York, Singapore, Tokyo, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, and Sydney.﻿﻿﻿﻿



The hard currency must have a stable value. The value of a currency is mostly based on economic fundamentals such as gross domestic product (GDP) and employment. The international strength of the U.S. dollar is reflective of America's GDP, which, as of the end of 2019, stood first in the world at $21.43 trillion. China and India had the second- and fifth-, respectively, ranked GDPs in the world, but neither the Chinese yuan nor the Indian rupee is considered a hard currency.﻿﻿﻿ This helps explain how central bank policies and stability in a country’s money supply also factor into exchange rates. The U.S. dollar is considered to be the world’s foreign reserve currency, which is the reason it is used in 88% of international trade transactions.﻿﻿


   Example of a Hard Loan  

An example of a hard loan would be a loan agreement between a Brazilian company and an Argentinean bank in which the debt is to be paid in U.S. dollars is a type of hard loan because U.S. dollars are considered to be hard currency and more stable than either the Brazilian real (BRL) or the Argentine peso (ARP).
What Is Hard Money?  

Hard money originally referred to the physical properties of metallic money, which, unlike paper currency, is made of hard substances. This is the origin of the colloquial English expression, "cold, hard cash."



The distinction between "hard" metal coins and "soft" paper money was borne by the fact that metallic coins are solid, physical tokens with intrinsic economic value independent of their monetary status. Meanwhile, paper fiat currency only represents a promise to pay the bearer in physical money upon redemption.



In the absence of metallic monies, hard money today often refers to other types of monetary instruments that, to some extent, behave more like metallic money in domestic and international markets. Examples include gold bullion or cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin.





Key Takeaways

Hard money refers to a currency that is made up of or directly backed by a valuable commodity such as gold or silver.This type of money is thought to maintain a stable value relative to goods and services and a strong exchange rate with softer monies.Hard money has historically been highly prized for its relatively greater usefulness as money to mediate the exchange of goods, store value, and conduct profit-and-loss accounting.Today, most countries issue fiat or "soft" currency, which is not backed by any tangible commodity.The term hard money also has several other uses, some of which relate to the reliability or confidence that people place on the thing that they are referring to.


   Understanding Hard Money  

Hard money maintains a stable market value relative to real goods and services and a strong exchange rate relative to foreign currencies. Due to its value and stability in goods markets and financial markets, hard money fulfills the economic function of money (as a medium of exchange, a store of value, and a unit of account) better than softer monies that have more volatile value.



Essentially, the use of hard money involves lower transaction costs and risks than using soft money. This distinction originated when comparing the metallic content and confidence in the metallic standard of commodity money and eventually carried over to the comparison of various modern paper or fiat monies.



Because the value of paper currencies tend to fluctuate on the forex market, according to confidence in the promises of payment that they represent, and decline in value over time as issuers inflate their supply, "hard" versus "soft" money also became associated with the relative stability of exchange rates of certain national currencies. Hard money thus has a more stable value over time relative to real goods and services and a strong exchange rate relative to softer money.






Regardless of whether a currency is backed by commodities or not, money is only useful in exchange and as a store of value if it is a socially accepted unit of account with which to measure value.


   Preference for Hard Money  

Users of money historically have tended to prefer to hold harder money because its more stable value makes it more useful in its functions as a medium of exchange, a store of value, and a unit of account for profit-and-loss accounting in business. This tendency is part of the origin of Gresham's Law (the other part being legal tender laws). Volatile fluctuations in the value of a currency or the steady erosion of value over time make softer money less useful for these functions.



As governments around the world gradually dropped the use and legal tender status of precious metal money and precious metal backing, such as the gold standard, for paper currency, it was this relationship that stuck when comparing hard versus soft paper currencies. Hard money, as it is used today, usually describes fiat money whose issuer shows restraint in the volume of currency they supply and whose government is relatively stable politically and responsible fiscally.



Such currencies tend to lose value more slowly over time through inflation and maintain a more stable exchange rate compared to the currencies of similar, hard money currencies. Maintaining a hard currency policy is a major goal of monetary and fiscal authorities in some highly developed nations, such as Switzerland, and hard money is often highly desired on the international market because its stability and reliability make it more useful in the settlement of international trade and as a bank reserve.






Those who adhere to the Austrian theory of economics, such as Libertarians, view the re-establishment of hard money as a critical piece of gaining economic stability.


   Alternative Uses of the Term "Hard Money"  

Hard money is also a term used in a number of other contexts in finance. All of these are related to the original economic distinction between hard and soft money in that they indicate the degree of confidence or reliability that the involved parties can place on certain funds. or financing.


  Political Contributions  

In politics, the term hard money means money donated directly to a politician or a political action committee. Hard money contributions carry some limitations and regulations, including how much you can contribute and the use of the funds. By comparison, donations to political parties, which don’t face the same limits and controls, are often referred to as soft money contributions.



So, while an individual can donate up to $2,900 in hard money per election to a specific candidate in 2021, they could donate an unlimited amount to a political party. Soft money in this sense is a less reliable way for a donor to support a specific candidate because the party may redirect funds to candidates of their choosing.


  Broker Commissions or Fees  

Hard and soft money can also refer to how clients pay their brokers or financial services providers. In this case, hard money refers to direct payments for services rendered—brokerage commissions—while soft money refers to payments for indirect items, such as the settlement of a costly error by providing free research.



Soft money arrangements in the financial industry are common but are not usually disclosed to stakeholders and regulators.


  Lending  

A hard money loan is one that is backed by the value of a physical asset, such as a car or home. The collateral for the loan means that this hard money loan has a more reliable value than an unbacked loan. Loans of this type typically have a higher interest rate than what the borrower might receive through a traditional mortgage lender or other established financing channel.



Private investors or individuals most often issue a hard money loan as lenders of last resort due to timing or perhaps the distressed financial situation of the borrower. 


  Government Funding  

Hard money is a term sometimes used to describe an ongoing funding stream originating from a government agency or other organization. The flow of funds represents a reliable series of payments, rather than a one-time grant. Hard money could take the form of government daycare subsidies or annual scholarships to post-secondary students.



Hard money is a preferred form of funding by government sub-units and government-funded organizations because it provides a predictable stream of funds. In the case of a student scholarship, it provides budget certainty to the student planning for their time in college. By comparison, one-off grants can make long-term planning and budgeting more challenging.
What Is a Hard Money Loan?  

A hard money loan is a type of loan that is secured by real property. Hard money loans are considered loans of "last resort" or short-term bridge loans. These loans are primarily used in real estate transactions, with the lender generally being individuals or companies and not banks.





Key Takeaways

Hard money loans are primarily used for real estate transactions.They are generally money from an individual or company, and not a bank.A hard money loan is a way to raise money quickly but at a higher cost.Because hard money loans rely on collateral rather than the financial position of the applicant, the funding time frame is shorter.Terms of hard money loans can often be negotiated between the lender and the borrower. These loans typically use property as collateral. 


   How a Hard Money Loan Works  

Hard money loans have terms based mainly on the value of the property being used as collateral, not on the creditworthiness of the borrower. Since traditional lenders, such as banks, do not make hard money loans, hard money lenders are often private individuals or companies that see value in this type of potentially risky venture.


   Interest Rates on Hard Money Loans  

Hard money loans generally have a higher interest rate than traditional mortgages. As of July 2022, the average interest rate offered on a hard money loan was between 10% and 18%. This makes hard money loans much more expensive than a regular mortgage, which during the same month offered an interest rate of between 4% and 5%.



For flippers and short-term investors, this might not matter. They may plan to pay the loan back quickly, and this will reduce the effect of a high interest rate and make the loan cheaper. For most other people, however, it makes sense to look for a loan with a lower interest rate. The primary advantage of a hard money loan is speed; if you can wait a few months for your loan to come through, it might be better to look at refinancing your home or taking out a personal loan.


   Examples of Hard Money Loan  

Hard money loans are typically used by real estate investors, developers, and flippers. Hard money loans can be arranged much more quickly than a loan through a traditional bank. In some cases, hard money lenders can issue funds in as little as 10 business days, while traditional banks have a wait time of 30-50 days for funding. Most hard money lenders can lend up to 65% to 75% of the property’s current value, and loan terms are generally short - 6 to 18 months.



Hard money loans may be sought by property flippers who plan to renovate and resell the real estate that is used as collateral for the financing—often within one year, if not sooner. The higher cost of a hard money loan is offset by the fact that the borrower intends to pay off the loan relatively quickly.



Hard money loans may be used in turnaround situations, short-term financing, and by borrowers with poor credit but substantial equity in their property. Since it can be issued quickly, a hard money loan can be used as a way to stave off foreclosure.






Hard money lending can be viewed as an investment. There are many who have used this as a business model and actively practice it.


   Special Considerations for Hard Money Loans  

The cost of a hard money loan to the borrower is typically higher than financing available through banks or government lending programs, reflecting the higher risk that the lender is taking by offering the financing. However, the increased expense is a tradeoff for faster access to capital, a less stringent approval process, and potential flexibility in the repayment schedule.


   Pros and Cons of a Hard Money Loan  

As with any financial product, there are advantages and disadvantages to hard money loans. These loans are quick and easy to arrange and have high loan-to-value (LTV) ratios, but also high interest rates.


  Pros  

One advantage to a hard money loan is the approval process, which tends to be much quicker than applying for a mortgage or other traditional loan through a bank. The private investors who back the hard money loan can make decisions faster because the lender is focused on collateral rather than an applicant's financial position.



Lenders spend less time combing through a loan application verifying income and reviewing financial documents, for example. If the borrower has an existing relationship with the lender, the process will be even smoother.



Hard loan investors aren't as concerned with receiving repayment because there may be an even greater value and opportunity for them to resell the property themselves if the borrower defaults.


  Cons  

Since the property itself is used as the only protection against default, hard money loans usually have lower LTV ratios than traditional loans: around 50% to 75%, vs. 80% for regular mortgages (though it can go higher if the borrower is an experienced flipper).



Also, the interest rates tend to be high. For hard money loans, the rates can be even higher than those of subprime loans.



Another disadvantage is that hard loan lenders might elect to not provide financing for an owner-occupied residence because of regulatory oversight and compliance rules.




What Are Typical Terms for Hard Money Loan?
Hard money loans are a form of short-term financing, with the loan term lasting between 3 and 36 months. Most hard money lenders can lend up to 65% to 75% of the property’s current value, at an interest rate of 10% to 18%.




Is a Hard Money Loan a Good Investment?
It depends what you use the money for. Hard money loans are a good fit for wealthy investors who need to get funding for an investment property quickly, without any of the red tape that goes along with bank financing. They can be useful to pay for a one-time expense or project, but only if you are reasonably sure you'll have the money to pay back the loan.




What Are The Risks of a Hard Money Loan?
Hard money lenders typically charge a higher interest rate because they're assuming more risk than a traditional lender would. They may require a higher down payment than a traditional loan would, and you'll have a shorter period to pay back the loan.


   The Bottom Line  

Hard money loans are typically used by real estate investors, developers, and flippers. They can be arranged much more quickly than a loan through a traditional bank, and loan terms are generally short - 6 to 18 months. Hard money loans may be sought by investors who plan to renovate and resell the real estate that is used as collateral for the financing. The higher cost of a hard money loan is offset by the fact that the borrower intends to pay off the loan relatively quickly.
What Is a Hard Sell?  

A hard sell refers to an advertising or sales approach that features especially direct and insistent language. A hard sell is designed to get a consumer to purchase a good or service in the short-term, rather than evaluate their options and potentially decide to wait on the purchase. It is considered a high-pressure, aggressive technique that has fallen out of favor according to some sales experts.





Key Takeaways

A hard sell is a sales strategy that is direct and pushy.It is designed to get a consumer to purchase a good or service immediately without time to contemplate.Hard sell tactics have a negative connotation and are considered unscrupulous.A hard sell stands in contrast to a soft sell that is gentle and low-pressure.It is considered a counterproductive sales tactic as it typically results in negative feelings and a small chance of repeat business.


   Understanding a Hard Sell  

"Hard sell" as a term saw its first use in the United States in the 1950s to describe sales and advertising practices that are aggressive in nature. Hard-sell tactics put immediate pressure on a prospective client. They can include abrupt language, cold calls, or unwanted pitches. They're intended to keep pushing a client to buy even if the client has said, "no." The accepted standard practice is to keep pushing until the client has said "no" three times.


   Hard Sell Characteristics  

Hard selling may be characterized by various techniques that provoke the consumer, flatter them, play on their fear of missing out, and attempt to convince them that buying a product will be a smart decision that will improve their lives.






A soft sell is the alternative sales approach where urgency is not a factor and the salesperson focuses more on the emotional aspect of the sale.



A hard sell technique used to sell a car, for example, might focus on the limited availability of the particular model, how other people are waiting to purchase the vehicle, and how prices might increase if the consumer walks off the lot. Hard selling is often associated with unscrupulous salespeople, who may attempt to misinform the consumer, withhold information from them, or even lie to them.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Hard Sell  

Despite the negative perception consumers have of hard-sell tactics, they provide some advantages. For example, the immediacy of the hard sell can be an advantage in dealing with the fact that most people tend to delay purchases and will postpone making decisions even if it involves something that would immediately improve their lives.



For the salesperson, hard sells provide immediate rewards, especially for 100% commission-based jobs. The seller avoids wasting time following up with customers, who will likely decline the sale as time passes. Also, with a shortened sales cycle, the salesperson has more time to focus on other sales and has a better ability to meet sales goals.



Hard-sell tactics are also effective at shutting out competition as customers have little to no time to compare.



However, hard sells, especially when done aggressively, may overwhelm the buyer and prevent prospective buyers from considering the brand. For the overwhelmed buyer, the experience may be so distasteful that they share their negative experience with others, which can adversely affect the company's reputation. It may also push them to competitors who do not employ hard-sell tactics.



Hard sells often ignore the needs of the customer as the salesperson is focused more on the sale, rather than the customer. This could result in a mismatch between the customer and the product or service sold.





Pros

Rewards the salesperson immediately
Fulfills an urgent need
Shuts out competitors



Cons

Pushes customers away
Repels prospective customers
Tarnishes the company's reputation





   Hard Sell vs. Soft Sell  

To better understand the hard sell, it is helpful to consider the soft sell, which features more subtle language, a consultative tone, and a non-aggressive technique. A soft sell is designed to avoid angering potential customers and pushing them away. It appeals to the emotions of the consumer, attempting to trigger feelings that compel them to make a purchase.



Because soft selling is a low-pressure sales technique, it may not result in a sale the first time a product is presented. A soft sell may be better for certain goods and services, or certain types of consumers.


   Hard Sell Debate  

Many sales experts contend that hard selling is counterproductive. It can alienate buyers or make them respond to aggressive tactics with their own aggression. It can also intimidate and scare off prospective buyers, creating negative feelings that make repeat sales less likely.



Hard selling allows no time for education and persuasion and, therefore, leaves a prospective buyer thinking that they are being told what to do and that their thought-process doesn't matter.


   Hard Sell FAQs   
  Should I Use a Hard Sell or a Soft Sell?   

Employing a hard-sell tactic could be beneficial when the customer has a need for an immediate solution, such as a flat tire needing replacement. When there is no immediate customer need and building a relationship is more important, a soft sell should be employed. The soft seller needs to exercise patience and be consistent to secure the sale, understanding that it may not occur during the first encounter.


  Is a Hard Sell Unethical?  

Not all hard sales are unethical, and for some industries, it is necessary. However, a hard sell can be unethical when the salesperson is aggressive or threatening, when the needs of the customer are ignored, and when it forces the customer to comply.


  Does a Hard Sell Lead to More Sales?  

When the customer's needs are met and when done respectfully, a hard sell can lead to more sales. The sales cycle is shortened, allowing the salesperson more time to secure sales from other customers.



When poorly executed, a hard sell will, in the long term, reduce overall sales. Also, it will negatively affect the reputation of the salesperson and the company.
What Are Hard Skills?  

Hard skills are technical skills required for a job. They are learned abilities acquired and enhanced through education and experience. Hard skills are important for your resume, as employers look for them when hiring.



Hard skills alone don’t translate into success, as employees also need other skills, such as soft skills. Unlike soft skills, hard skills can be quantified. For example, a hard skill might be proficiency in a second language, while a soft skill could be the ability to work well on a team.





Key Takeaways

Hard skills are technical skills required for a job.Hard skills are acquired through education and experience.Soft skills are behavioral, such as being a team player.Unlike soft skills, hard skills can be easily quantified.Employers typically look for a combination of hard and soft skills.


   Understanding Hard Skills  

Hard skills are technical skills needed to perform a job or land a new one. They are typically industry specific. For example, a financial analyst would need a different set of hard skills from a carpenter. But hard skills can also be valuable across industries. For example, fluency in a second language could potentially benefit both the analyst and the carpenter.



Employers and recruiters look for hard skills listed on your resume and during the interview process. It’s best to back up your hard skills with a certificate, degree, or other qualification that shows a level of achievement. Experience is also seen as a qualification that validates expertise in hard skills. Some prospective employers test the hard skills of job candidates. Someone interviewing for an editing job, for example, might have to take an editing test.



Hard skills focus on practical abilities and skills, whereas soft skills focus on behaviors and personalities, such as social and communication skills. Soft skills are less tangible and harder to teach.



Employers typically look for a hybrid of hard and soft skills. Soft skills are more intrinsic to personality and more difficult to judge quickly, but they may be as important on the job over time.






Hard and soft skills are critical for success at almost any job, and having both on your resume is essential when job hunting.


   Types of Hard Skills  

The types of hard skills needed to be qualified and successful in a job depend on the industry. Employers typically list hard skills required in job descriptions. Common hard skills include:


  Common Hard Skills  

Computer software knowledgeGraphic designData analysisProject managementMarketingCopywritingComputer programmingForeign languagesSearch engine optimization (SEO)



 According to data published by LinkedIn in September 2022, the top trending hard skills are:


  Top Hard Skills in 2022  

Customer serviceSalesAccountingBusiness developmentMarketingDigital marketingSales managementFinanceSocial mediaSales and marketingFinancial analysisEngineeringSocial media marketingStructured query language (SQL)


   Hard Skills vs. Soft Skills  

Hard skills generally have rules that remain the same regardless of the business, industry, or even culture in which they are practiced. The rules of soft skills can change depending on company culture and the expectations of colleagues. For example, the rules for how a programmer creates code are the same regardless of where the programmer works. However, a programmer may communicate effectively to other programmers about technical details but struggle when communicating with senior managers about a project’s progress or support needs.



Hard skills can be learned via education, training, or apprenticeships, and on the job. The levels of competency can be defined, and there is a direct path for achieving them. For example, in the field of accounting, you can take basic and advanced accounting courses, earn a degree, gain work experience, and pass the certified public accountant (CPA) exam.



Soft skills are not often found in the curriculum of a school or college. But they are taught in programs that help people develop communication skills, teamwork, or people-management skills. Some common soft skills include:



CommunicationTeamworkAdaptabilityProblem solvingConflict resolution






Ask your employer if they offer or pay for any leadership training or team-building programs for employees. If your employer wants you to improve one of your hard or soft skills, many companies will cover hard- and soft-skill programs for their employees.


   Example of Hard Skills  

Accounting is a profession that requires a relatively rigid set of hard skills. Proficiency in the Microsoft Office suite, especially Excel, is a given. Familiarity with industry-specific software, such as tax preparation software and Intuit’s QuickBooks, is also required.



Accountants need to know how to prepare and interpret financial statements and other accounting reports, develop efficient financial reporting mechanisms, and plan and implement accounting controls.



Some of the other skills that accountants need might be categorized as soft skills. They must be able to communicate effectively with clients and be diplomatic when dealing with external auditors.




What are hard skills to include on a resume?
If you are listing hard skills on a resume, include any technical skills you have acquired and any foreign languages. List hard skills relevant to the position for which you are applying. These are typically spelled out in job postings.




How can I acquire hard skills?
You can acquire hard skills by taking online or in-person classes at a university or other training program, practicing these skills before applying them to a job, and gaining experience by using the hard skills in the workplace.




Is critical thinking a hard skill?
No. Critical thinking is an important soft skill. You can study and practice critical thinking, but it cannot be “learned” in the same way you can teach yourself to use accounting software.


   The Bottom Line  

Every job, from firefighting to being a marketing executive, calls for a specific skill set often made up of a combination of hard and soft skills. Whether you are considering a new job or applying for your first job, knowing which hard skills are needed, and obtaining those skills, means you will have a better chance of being hired or promoted in your field of choice.



Some hard skills—such as being proficient in using a computer, analyzing data, or understanding at least the basics of using social media—will often be useful in many different jobs and careers. Many trades call for particular hard skills that are required for employment in construction, architecture, plumbing and electric, and engineering.



To get hired and be successful in the workplace, you’ll need a combination of hard and soft skills, both of which you can continually build on and develop.
What Is a Hard Stop?  

A hard stop is more of a concept than an actual order type. A hard stop presumes a price level that, if reached, will decisively trigger an order to sell an underlying security.



Hard stops are usually implemented as a stop order on an open position in a market. Such an order is likely set to be good until canceled (GTC) or filled, whichever comes first. When the designated price level is observed, the order may convert into a market order and the next available market price is taken as the trade. The key concept behind the hard stop is that the rule is uncompromising and must be followed regardless of other considerations.





Key Takeaways

A hard stop is an inflexible decision point to close a trade if certain criteria are met.Traders using a hard stop usually use some form of a stop order to limit losses on an open position.The alternative to a hard stop is a soft, or mental stop, where an order is not placed in the broker platform ahead of time.


   Understanding a Hard Stop  

A hard stop is placed in advance of an adverse move and remains active until the price of the underlying security moves beyond the stop level. A hard stop is one that is inflexible. It differs from a mental stop, where a trader may have a price in mind, but really does not take action until they see their stop price traded, at which time they may or may not follow their expected rule to sell.



Traders convert a mental stop into a hard stop by merely creating a standing order and putting it into the system on a good-till-canceled status. This takes away the need to be disciplined about following through on an exit order. This kind of order does not protect against gapping prices, but does have the advantage of getting out at the first possible price when trading resumes after it has gapped below the original stop price level.



Many traders will choose to set a hard stop once the price of their investment becomes profitable and will leave the order active until it reaches the price target. For example, a technical trader may buy a stock following a breakout from an ascending triangle and place a hard stop just below the upper trendline support with plans to either take profit when the price target is reached or exit the position if the breakout fails.


   Special Considerations  

Hard stops are often used in conjunction with technical analysis to maximize the odds of success. By placing these orders just below support levels, traders can avoid being stopped out prematurely if the market experiences a whipsaw. For these reasons, fund managers with large positions are reluctant to use hard stops as part of their investing or trading strategies.



Trailing stop loss orders are a common alternative to hard stop orders, where the stop loss price point is reset on a regular basis to account for an increase in the underlying stock price. The idea is to constantly maintain a buffer without letting the stock drop too far before taking profits.


   Example of a Hard Stop  

Suppose that an investor purchases 100 shares of Acme Co. for $10.00 per share.



The investor may decide to place a hard stop at $10.00 per share, once the stock has moved meaningfully higher, to ensure that they don't experience a loss. Since it's meaningfully higher than the current price, there's no risk of the hard stop order being executed by a brief whipsaw. The goal is to ensure that the position is never underwater following the hard stop order's placement.



Alternatively, the investor may wait until the stock reaches $20.00 per share since they will have earned $1,000 in profit. They may set a hard stop at $20.00 per share for 50 shares, which would effectively remove their cost basis from the position. The remaining 50 shares would be treated as house money in the sense that there is no net loss on the total 100 share position if they were to go to zero. This is known as taking money off the table.






The comments, opinions, and analyses expressed on Investopedia are for informational purposes online. Read our warranty and liability disclaimer for more info.
What Is a Hard-To-Borrow List?  

A hard-to-borrow list is an inventory record used by brokerages to indicate what stocks are difficult to borrow for short sale transactions. A brokerage firm's hard-to-borrow list provides an up-to-date catalog of stocks that cannot easily be borrowed for use as a short sale.



The hard-to-borrow list can be compared with a brokerage's easy-to-borrow list.





Key Takeaways

Short sellers rely on brokers to have stock shares available to borrow.If the broker has very few shares of a stock available, then that stock is placed on the hard-to-borrow list.Stocks on the hard-to-borrow list may not be short-sellable or have higher stock loan fees.


   Understanding the Hard-To-Borrow List  

Short selling of stocks is built on the notion that an individual trader or investor, wanting to profit from a decrease in a stock's price, is able to borrow shares of that stock from the broker.



Brokerages have a variety of ways to provide access to shares that can be sold short. However, regardless of their methods, there is a finite number of shares available for shorting. Once the number of shares available has come close to running out, the broker will publish a notation of some kind on their platform. This alerts account holders that if they attempt to sell that security short, their trade order may be refused.






Short supply isn't the only reason why a security may be on the hard-to-borrow list. It may also be included because of high volatility or something else.



To enter a short sale, a brokerage client must first borrow the shares from their broker. To provide the shares, the broker can use its own inventory or borrow from the margin account of another client or another brokerage firm. The borrower (i.e., the short seller) must pay interest and fees on the borrowed shares. Those on the hard-to-borrow list can have higher stock loan fees as a result of being in shorter supply.



Investors who enter short sale transactions attempt to capture profits in a declining market. For example, an investor may think that shares in Apple are likely to drop in price. The investor can short sell the stock and, if the price falls as they anticipate, repurchase it back for a profit. If the stock rises, however, the investor loses money.


   Hard-to-Borrow List Requirements  

Brokerage firms update their hard-to-borrow lists daily. A broker must be able to provide or locate the shares to loan to their client before executing the client's short sale transaction.



Regulation SHO, which was implemented on Jan. 3, 2005, has a "locate" condition that requires brokers to have a reasonable belief that the equity to be shorted can be borrowed and delivered to the short seller. The regulation is intended to prevent naked short selling, a practice where the investor places a short sale without holding the shares.


   Hard-to-Borrow List vs. Easy-to-Borrow List  

The hard-to-borrow list is the opposite of the easy-to-borrow list, which is an inventory record of securities that are available for short sale transactions. In general, an investor can assume that securities not included on the hard-to-borrow list will be available for short selling. While a brokerage firm's hard-to-borrow list is typically an internal list that is not made available to clients, the firm's clients usually have access to the easy-to-borrow list.



Brokerage clients may have to pay hard-to-borrow fees on certain short sales. Typically, the cost of borrowing stocks on the difficult-to-borrow list is higher than for stocks that are on the easy-to-borrow list. Large brokerage firms usually have a securities lending desk that helps source stocks that are difficult to borrow. A brokerage's securities lending desk also lends securities to other firms.
What Is Hardening?  

Hardening is a reference to trading conditions in which securities prices are rising and volatility is declining in a particular financial market. Although the assessment that a market is hardening can be applied in several contexts, it is most commonly used when referring to the market for commodities futures.



The term hardening can also be used in the insurance and banking industries to refer to a period of more stringent underwriting or lending standards.





Key Takeaways

In the finance industry, the term “hardening” is typically used to refer to a period of rising prices and reduced volatility, specifically in the commodities trading industry.The term hardening is also common in the insurance and lending industries, where it refers to periods of time when more rigorous underwriting or lending practices are implemented.In the banking and insurance industries, hardening is often observed in the aftermath of financial crises when financial institutions are more eager to control and reduce their risks.


   How Hardening Works  

In commodities trading, a market is said to be “hardening” if its prices are steadily rising at a time when volatility is relatively low. For many traders, a market that is hardening presents ideal conditions for trading because of the apparently calm and predictable nature of the market at such times. 



Of course, for traders wishing to speculate on large movements in commodity prices, a hardening market might be a negative sign, as the resulting decline in volatility could make those large moves less likely to materialize. This could be especially damaging for owners of options contracts set against those commodities, whose value generally falls when the volatility of their underlying asset decreases.






While hardening is most often noted in reference to the trading conditions of commodities futures markets, it is also used to refer to periods of strict underwriting or lending standards in the insurance and banking industries.


   How Speculators Impact Volatility  

A commonly held belief is that the rise of speculators into the commodities futures markets has led to an increase in price volatility on futures contracts. On the contrary, some researchers have concluded that an influx of futures traders, and the liquidity that they bring to the market, have a stabilizing or hardening effect on futures prices. 



These researchers suggest that futures markets are considered volatile not because of price fluctuations, but because of a great deal of leverage available to futures traders. By way of example, equity margin requirements are generally around 50%, whereas margins as low as 5% to 10% are common for futures contracts. Under these circumstances, even small fluctuations in price can have a tremendous impact on the owner of a highly leveraged futures position.


   Special Considerations  

When applied in the insurance and banking industries, the term hardening has a different meaning. In these industries, hardening is commonly used to refer to periods of more rigorous underwriting or lending standards. These periods often arise following a financial shock such as the credit crunch that occurred during the 2007-2008 financial crisis.



More rigorous underwriting or lending practices are sometimes implemented in response to risky decisions by the financial institutions involved, such as the optimistic derivative contracts and subprime loan agreements that American banks and insurance companies entered into prior to the 2007-2008 financial crisis. In the aftermath of this financial crisis, financial firms were keener to reset their lending and underwriting standards on a more conservative footing. 



Although this reversal in sentiment amongst financial institutions–from risky to more conservative–can help reduce the incidence of inappropriate insurance policies and too risky loans, it can also make it difficult for creditworthy counterparties to secure credit or insurance. In these periods of fiscal “hardening," consumers and market participants alike will often complain that approval criteria have become unnecessarily onerous.
What Was the Hardship Exemption?  

The term hardship exemption referred to an exemption granted to individuals who weren't able to afford health insurance due to personal and/or financial circumstances. These exemptions were part of a provision in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), which was signed into law in 2010. Individuals were required to have acceptable health care coverage or else pay a fee. Individuals who weren't able to afford coverage could apply for an exemption where no penalty was assessed. The fee for uninsured individuals was eliminated in 2019 with the passing of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA).





Key Takeaways

Hardship exemptions were granted to individuals under certain circumstances when they couldn't afford to purchase health care coverage. Individuals granted exemptions didn't have to pay the individual mandate or Shared Responsibility Payment for not having health insurance during the hardship period.Notable hardship exemptions were homelessness, eviction, being a victim of domestic violence, or bankruptcy.Hardship exemptions were no longer applicable after 2019 as the individual mandate was eliminated. 


   How Hardship Exemptions Worked  

The Affordable Care Act was signed into law by President Barack Obama on March 23, 2010. Commonly referred to as Obamacare, it helped reduce the cost of health care for the American public by creating health care exchanges, expanding the eligibility for Medicaid, preventing insurance companies from denying coverage, and penalizing individuals who weren't covered.



Starting in 2014, most individuals were required to have acceptable health care coverage, which was known as minimum essential coverage. Those who weren't covered were charged a fee called an individual mandate or the Shared Responsibility Payment. This was a one-time fee collected by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) when individuals filed their annual tax returns. Those who couldn't afford health care were able to apply for hardship exemptions through the Health Insurance Marketplace.



A hardship exemption may be granted for tax years between 2015 and 2018 for the following circumstances:



Homelessness
You were evicted in the last six months or faced foreclosure.
You received a shut-off notice from a utility company.
You were the victim of domestic violence.
You experienced the death of a close family member within the previous three-year period.
You experienced a fire, flood, or another disaster (natural or man-made) that resulted in substantial damage to your property.
You filed for bankruptcy within the previous six months.
You had medical expenses you were unable to pay in the last 24 months.
You had unexpected increases in necessary expenses related to caring for an ill, disabled, or aging family member.
You expected to claim a child on your tax return who was denied coverage in Medicaid and CHIP, and another person was under a court order to provide medical support for the child (in this case, you did not owe the penalty for the child).
As a result of an eligibility appeals decision, you are eligible for a qualified health plan (QHP) through the Marketplace, lower costs on your monthly premiums, or cost-sharing reductions for a period when you were not enrolled in the QHP.
You are ineligible for Medicaid because your state did not expand its eligibility under the ACA.



The Trump administration eliminated the individual mandate in 2019, which means those without health insurance were longer penalized. The administration expanded the conditions for approval for the hardship exemption, making it easier to avoid the penalty up until 2018 if individuals:



Lived somewhere with no marketplace plans.
Lived somewhere with just one company selling plans on the marketplace
Couldn’t find an affordable plan without abortion coverage.
Had personal circumstances preventing them from purchasing a marketplace plan, including not being able to find a plan with specialty care.



As noted above, the individual mandate was eliminated in 2019, which means individuals without health insurance are no longer penalized.






President Biden's health care plan includes bringing back the individual mandate.


   Special Considerations  

Hardship exemptions typically covered the month prior to, the month of, and the month after the hardship. The exemption period could be extended up to an entire calendar year in some cases. For instance, people who were ineligible for Medicaid because their state has not expanded Medicaid coverage. Individuals were often required to provide documentation to back up their application for an exemption.
What Is a Hardship Withdrawal?  

A hardship withdrawal is an emergency removal of funds from a retirement plan, sought in response to what the IRS terms "an immediate and heavy financial need." This type of special distribution may be allowed without penalty from such plans as a traditional IRA or a 401k, provided the withdrawal meets certain criteria regarding the need for the funds and their amount.



However, even if penalties are waived (notably, the 10% penalty for withdrawals made before age 59½), the withdrawal will still be subject to standard income tax.





Key Takeaways

If you're younger than 59½ and suffering financial hardship, you may be able to withdraw funds from your retirement accounts without incurring the usual 10% penalty.Not all hardships qualify, however, and you're still responsible for paying income tax on the withdrawal.Keep in mind that you won't be able to return the funds to the account if and when your finances improve.Consider other alternatives to hardship withdrawals, including a Substantially Equal Periodic Payments (SEPP) plan.


   Understanding Hardship Withdrawals  

Hardship withdrawals can provide needed funds in an emergency—without a credit check—but they should be used very sparingly and only if all other alternatives have been tried or dismissed. By exposing funds held in a tax-sheltered account to income tax, a hardship withdrawal is likely to boost your tax bill for the year. Even more important, it will permanently deprive you of funds targeted for your retirement.



Unlike, say, a loan you take from your 401(k), the funds from a hardship withdrawal cannot be returned to the account if and when your financial position improves.



Because of these disadvantages, consider a hardship withdrawal only as a last resort to meet an exceptional and pressing need. Indeed, the IRS and most employers who offer 401(k)s impose stringent criteria for these distributions to limit when they may be used and their amount.



The rules that govern such withdrawals, and who administers them, differ by the type of retirement fund.


   Hardship Withdrawals from IRAs  

The IRS will waive the 10% penalty for IRA withdrawals made before age 59½ that are prompted by medically related hardship. If you do not have health insurance or your medical expenses are more than your insurance will cover for the year, you may be able to take penalty-free distributions from your IRA to cover these expenses—or at least some of them. Only the cost difference between these expenses and 7.5% of your adjusted gross income (AGI) is eligible.



If you are unemployed, you are permitted to take penalty-free distributions to pay for your medical insurance. However, to qualify, you must have lost your job, rather than simply left it voluntarily, and you must have received federal or state unemployment compensation for 12 consecutive weeks. Concerning the timing, you must receive the distributions the same year, or the year after, you received the unemployment compensation and no later than 60 days after you get another job. And the bills must be large—representing at least 10% of your AGI—and must not be covered by any health insurance.



The IRS also allows early, penalty-free withdrawals from IRAs for other reasons that may or may not be prompted by hardship. These include having a mental or physical disability, or needing funds to pay higher-education bills for you, your spouse, or your children or grandchildren.


   Hardship Withdrawals from 401(k)s  

Whether or not you may take a hardship distribution from your 401(k) or similar 403(b) plans—and for which reasons—is up to the employer who sponsors the program. “A retirement plan may, but is not required to, provide for hardship distributions,” the IRS states. If the plan does allow such distributions, it must specify the criteria that define a hardship, such as paying for medical or funeral expenses. Your employer will ask for certain information and possibly documentation of your hardship.



If your employer permits a withdrawal for a particular reason, though, IRS rules govern whether or not the 10% penalty for withdrawals made before age 59½ will be waived, as well as how much you're allowed to withdraw. These conditions are similar to those governing waivers for IRA withdrawals, but there are some differences.



Notably, you can't withdraw from your 401(k) without penalty to pay your medical insurance premiums, as you can with an IRA. Nor are withdrawals to pay educational expenses or to buy a first home free from penalties; both are permitted penalty-free for IRA withdrawals, under certain conditions.






In response to the economic crisis, the CARES Act of 2020 provides significant temporary relief to the rules surrounding hardship withdrawals and loans for people who have experienced adverse financial consequences. Refer to the IRS Q&A bulletin for further details.


   Hardship Withdrawal Alternatives  

There's another option to tap your retirement accounts before age 59½ without incurring penalties, but it requires more time to set up and a longer-term commitment to early withdrawals. The funds you wish to tap can be placed into a Substantially Equal Periodic Payments (SEPP) plan. The plan will then pay you, without penalty, annual distributions for five years or until you turn 59½, whichever comes later. As with hardship withdrawals, only the penalties are waived; you're still liable for paying income tax on the early withdrawals.



Because the IRS requires individuals to continue the SEPP plan for at least five years, this is not a solution for those who seek only short-term access to retirement funds without penalty. If you cancel the plan before the minimum holding period expires, you're required to pay the IRS all the penalties that you were waived under the program, plus interest on that amount.



Also, funds held in an employer-sponsored qualified plan, such as a 401(k), can be used in a SEPP only if you no longer work for the sponsoring employer. Once you start a SEPP program on a retirement account, too, you may not make any additions to or take distributions from the account. Any changes to the account balance, with the exception of the SEPPs and required fees, such as trade and administrative charges, may result in a modification of the SEPP program and could be cause for disqualification by the IRS—and, again, the imposition of all penalties that were waived, plus interest.



Despite these limitations and drawbacks, a SEPP plan is worth considering in cases where you need to tap funds early. Among other pluses, the programs are less restrictive regarding how you spend the funds you withdraw without penalty when compared to hardship withdrawals.
What Is Harmless Warrant?  

The term harmless warrant refers to a provision that requires bondholders to surrender an existing bond if they want to purchase the same type of bond from the issuer. Put simply, bond issuers put harmless warrants on their bonds, requiring investors to swap their existing bond if they want to purchase another one with similar features from the same issuer. Harmless warrants are a safety net for bond issuers as they help keep their debt levels in check.





Key Takeaways

A harmless warrant is a provision that requires a bondholder to surrender the bond back to the issuer if they buy another one with similar terms from the same issuer. Harmless warrants prevent the bond issuer from taking on too much debt. A harmless warrant does not prevent the holder from purchasing another bond with different terms from the issuer.Not all bonds have harmless warrants attached to them. Harmless warrants force investors to decide which bond terms are the most crucial to them and their investment goals. 


   Understanding Harmless Warrants  

Warrants are derivative securities that allow the holder the right—not the obligation—to purchase or sell a specific security at a specific price before the expiration date. They come in several different forms, including harmless warrants.



A harmless warrant is attached to bonds and offered by bondholders. An investor who buys a bond with a harmless warrant cannot purchase another bond from the same issuer with the same terms until the investor surrenders the first bond they purchased. This includes any bonds that have the same maturity date, yield, and principal amount. As such, Mr. Investor can't purchase a $1,000 10-year bond from Company A without surrendering the first one they own with the same terms.



Bonds are a form of debt for the issuer. The investor lends the entity a specific sum of money for a period of time in exchange for the principal balance plus interest at maturity. As such, these instruments add to the issuer's total amount of debt. Issuing bonds with harmless warrants allows these entities to control their debt levels. In this way, an investor can't get too much leverage on the issuer while preventing the issuer from getting into a dangerous situation in which an investor calls multiple bonds that the issuer can't cover.



One important point to note is that not all issuing entities attach harmless warrants on their bond offerings.






Harmless warrants are also called wedding warrants.


   Special Considerations  

If harmless warrants prevent investors from purchasing multiple bonds with similar terms from the same issuer, what happens if someone wants to buy different bonds from the issuer?



These warrants don't prevent bondholders from purchasing bonds with different terms from the same issuer. This means they may purchase other bonds with different maturity terms, yield rates, and principal amounts.



Keep in mind, though, that most investors generally want to repeat certain investments because of the favorable terms they carry, so a harmless warrant forces an investor to decide which of the terms are the most crucial. That is unless they are willing to surrender the original bond to purchase a new one with the same terms.






Harmless warrants are not detachable, which means they can't be separated from the underlying security. As such, you can't sell the bond or warrant separately on the secondary market.


   Harmless Warrant vs. Warrant  

Remember that a harmless warrant gives the holder the right to purchase another bond at the same terms as the bond to which the harmless warrant applies. However, the harmless warrant does not give the holder the right to own two bonds with the same terms at the same time. Instead, it requires the holder to surrender the first bond to be allowed to buy the second bond with the same terms.



A warrant, on the other hand, is a type of derivative security because it gives the holder the right to act in some way with another security. A warrant gives the holder the right to buy or sell another security at a specific time, although the warrant holder does not have the obligation to exercise this warrant. The holder of the original security purchases the warrant to have the right to do whatever the warrant delineates.




Are Bonds and Warrants the Same?
Bonds and warrants are not the same thing. Bonds are fixed-income investments that guarantee investors the return of their principal along with a set interest rate by a certain period of time. Warrants, on the other hand, are derivatives that give the holder the right but not the obligation to purchase or sell the underlying security at a certain price by the expiration date. Warrants can be attached to bonds. Bond-linked warrants give perks to both investors and bond issuers.




What Are Detachable Warrants?
Detachable warrants are derivatives that are attached to certain securities. They allow the holder the right to buy the underlying asset at a certain price within a certain period of time. As their name implies, these warrants can be detached or removed from the associated asset and sold or traded separately on the secondary market. As such, the holder can sell either the investment or the detachable warrant and keep the other.




What Is a Penny Warrant?
A penny warrant is a warrant that comes with an exercise price (the agreed-upon price for the underlying asset) of one cent or another nominal amount.




Can You Sell Warrants?
You can sell a warrant as long as it's detachable. Detachable warrants are those that can be removed from the underlying asset, such as a stock. Once detached, they can be traded on their own. If you do this, it means that you claim the asset itself but sell (or trade) the warrant itself on the secondary market—usually over-the-counter or through a broker.
What Is the Harmonic Mean?
The harmonic mean is a numerical average calculated by dividing the number of observations, or entries in the series, by the reciprocal of each number in the series. Thus, the harmonic mean is the reciprocal of the arithmetic mean of the reciprocals.
For example, to calculate the harmonic mean of 1, 4, and 4, you would divide the number of observations by the reciprocal of each number, as follows: 






3



(



1


1



 


+


 



1


4



 


+


 



1


4



)




 


=


 



3


1.5



 


=


 


2



\frac{3}{\left(\frac{1}{1}\ +\ \frac{1}{4}\ +\ \frac{1}{4}\right)}\ =\ \frac{3}{1.5}\ =\ 2


(11​ + 41​ + 41​)3​ = 1.53​ = 2
The harmonic mean has uses in finance and technical analysis of markets, among others.





Key Takeaways


The harmonic mean is the reciprocal of the arithmetic mean of the reciprocals.
Harmonic means are used in finance to average data like price multiples.
Harmonic means also can be used by market technicians to identify patterns such as Fibonacci sequences.



   Understanding the Harmonic Mean  

The harmonic mean helps to find multiplicative or divisor relationships between fractions without worrying about common denominators. Harmonic means are often used in averaging things like rates (e.g., the average travel speed given a duration of several trips).
The weighted harmonic mean is used in finance to average multiples like the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio because it gives equal weight to each data point. Using a weighted arithmetic mean to average these ratios would give greater weight to high data points than low data points because P/E ratios aren't price-normalized while the earnings are equalized.
The harmonic mean is the weighted harmonic mean, where the weights are equal to 1. The weighted harmonic mean of x1, x2, x3 with the corresponding weights w1, w2, w3 is given as:









∑



i


=


1



n




w


i






∑



i


=


1



n





w


i




x


i








\displaystyle{\frac{\sum^n_{i=1}w_i}{\sum^n_{i=1}\frac{w_i}{x_i}}}


∑i=1n​xi​wi​​∑i=1n​wi​​






The reciprocal of a number n is simply 1 / n.


   Harmonic Mean vs. Arithmetic Mean and Geometric Mean  

Other ways to calculate averages include the simple arithmetic mean and the geometric mean. Taken together, these three types of mean (harmonic, arithmetic, and geometric) are known as the Pythagorean means. The distinctions between the three types of Pythagorean mean makes them suitable for different uses.



An arithmetic average is the sum of a series of numbers divided by the count of that series of numbers. If you were asked to find the class (arithmetic) average of test scores, you would simply add up all the test scores of the students, and then divide that sum by the number of students. For example, if five students took an exam and their scores were 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, and 100%, the arithmetic class average would be 80%.



The geometric mean is the average of a set of products, the calculation of which is commonly used to determine the performance results of an investment or portfolio. It is technically defined as "the nth root product of n numbers." The geometric mean must be used when working with percentages, which are derived from values, while the standard arithmetic mean works with the values themselves.






The harmonic mean is best used for fractions such as rates or multiples.


   Example of the Harmonic Mean  

As an example, take two firms. One has a market capitalization of $100 billion and earnings of $4 billion (P/E of 25), and the other has a market capitalization of $1 billion and earnings of $4 million (P/E of 250). In an index made of the two stocks, with 10% invested in the first and 90% invested in the second, the P/E ratio of the index is: 


















Using the WAM: P/E 


=


 


0.1


×


25


+


0.9


×


250


 


=


 


227.5























Using the WHM: P/E 


=


 




0.1


 


+


 


0.9





0.1


25



 


+


 



0.9


250





 


≈


 


131.6
















where:
















WAM


=


weighted arithmetic mean
















P/E


=


price-to-earnings ratio
















WHM


=


weighted harmonic mean







\begin{aligned}&\text{Using the WAM:\ P/E}\ =\ 0.1 \times25+0.9\times250\ =\ 227.5\\\\&\text{Using the WHM:\ P/E}\ =\ \frac{0.1\ +\ 0.9}{\frac{0.1}{25}\ +\ \frac{0.9}{250}}\ \approx\ 131.6\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{WAM}=\text{weighted arithmetic mean}\\&\text{P/E}=\text{price-to-earnings ratio}\\&\text{WHM}=\text{weighted harmonic mean}\end{aligned}


​Using the WAM: P/E = 0.1×25+0.9×250 = 227.5Using the WHM: P/E = 250.1​ + 2500.9​0.1 + 0.9​ ≈ 131.6where:WAM=weighted arithmetic meanP/E=price-to-earnings ratioWHM=weighted harmonic mean​



As can be seen, the weighted arithmetic mean significantly overestimates the mean price-to-earnings ratio.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Harmonic Mean  

The harmonic mean is effective because it incorporates all the entries in the series, and remains impossible to compute if any item is disallowed. Using the harmonic mean also allows a more significant weighting to be given to smaller values in the series, and it can also be calculated for a series that includes negative values. In comparison with the arithmetic mean and geometric mean, the harmonic mean generates a straighter curve.



However, there are also a few downsides to using the harmonic mean. First and foremost, because it requires using the reciprocals of the numbers in the series, the calculation of harmonic mean can be complex and time-consuming. In addition, because of the impossibility of finding the reciprocal of zero, it is not feasible to calculate the harmonic mean if the series contains a zero value. Finally, any extreme values on the high or low end of the series have an intense impact on the results of the harmonic mean.




What Is the Difference Between Harmonic Mean and Arithmetic Mean?
The harmonic mean is calculated by dividing the number of observations, or entries in the series, by the reciprocal of each number in the series. In contrast, the arithmetic mean is simply the sum of a series of numbers divided by the count of numbers in that series. The harmonic mean is equal to the reciprocal of the arithmetic mean of the reciprocals.




When Should You Use the Harmonic Mean?
The harmonic mean is best used for fractions such as rates or multiples. Harmonic means are used in finance to average data like price multiples such as the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio. Market technicians may also use harmonic means to identify patterns such as Fibonacci sequences.




What Are the Advantages of Using the Harmonic Mean?
The harmonic mean necessarily includes all the entries in a series, and it allows a more significant weighting to be given to smaller values. Harmonic mean can be calculated for a series that includes negative values, although it is impossible to compute when the series includes a value of zero. In comparison with the arithmetic mean and geometric mean, the harmonic mean generates a straighter curve.


   The Bottom Line  

The harmonic mean is calculated by dividing the number of entries in a series by the reciprocal of each number in the series. The harmonic mean stands out from the other types of Pythagorean mean—the arithmetic mean and geometrical mean—by using reciprocals and giving greater weight to smaller values. The harmonic mean is best used for fractions such as rates, and in finance, it is useful for averaging data like price multiples and identifying patterns such as Fibonacci sequences.
What Is the Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP)?  

The Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) is a measure of inflation in the European Union (EU). It reflects change over time in the prices paid by households for a representative basket of goods and services. The European Central Bank (ECB) uses the HICP for the Eurozone comprising the 19 EU states using the euro common currency to pursue its objective of price stability, defined as 2% annualized inflation over the medium term.





Key Takeaways

The Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) is a measure of inflation in the Eurozone and the European Union.The HICP tracks consumer price inflation based on the spending patterns of consumers in each EU country, weighted according to that country's share of aggregate consumer spending.The most important HICP number for financial markets is the monthly flash estimate of the Monetary Union Index of Consumer Prices, reflecting inflation in the Eurozone comprising the 19 EU states using the euro currency.The ECB uses the MUICP to calibrate its pursuit of price stability, aiming for 2% inflation over the medium term.


   Understanding the Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP)  

Each EU state's statistical agency compiles a national HICP using a common methodology. Eurostat, a department of the European Commission, then uses the national HICPs to calculate the Monetary Union Index of Consumer Prices (MUICP), the aggregate HICP for the 19-country Eurozone area that serves as the ECB's primary inflation gauge. Eurostat also calculates the European Index of Consumer Prices (EICP) covering the entire European Union as well as the European Economic Area Index of Consumer Prices incorporating data from EU trading partners Norway, Iceland, and Liechtenstein.



The flash estimate of the Eurozone's MUICP, published by Eurostat on the last working day of each month, is a key economic release for financial markets.



Each country's HICP measures the change over time in the prices of a basket of goods and services reflective of the spending patterns of that country's households. The index tracks the prices of goods such as coffee, tobacco, meat, fruit, household appliances, cars, pharmaceuticals, electricity, clothing, and many other widely used products and services. Owner-occupied housing costs are excluded from the HICP, though the ECB's Governing Council recommended their inclusion in 2021.


   Weighted Baskets  

Eurostat calculates the Monetary Union Index of Consumer Prices using the weighted average of the HICP from each country in the euro area based on the country's share of aggregate Eurozone consumer spending.



Each country's HICP measures the change over time in the prices of a basket of goods and services representative spending by that country's households.



The baskets of consumer goods and services and the weightings of each country are updated annually to reflect the most recent spending patterns.



The MUICP was first compiled in 1998 ahead of the euro currency's launch on Jan. 1, 1999.
What Is the Harmonized Sales Tax (HST)?  

Canada’s harmonized sales tax (HST) is a consumption tax paid by local consumers and businesses. As the name implies, it “harmonizes” (combines) the nation’s federal goods and services tax and various provincial sales taxes. Five Canadian provinces use the HST; other areas of Canada use a similar goods and services tax (GST).



The HST was implemented in 1997. Proponents of the tax argue that it improves the competitiveness of Canadian businesses by simplifying their administrative costs, leading to lower prices for consumers. The HST is collected by the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA), which then remits the appropriate amounts to the participating provinces.





Key Takeaways

The harmonized sales tax (HST) is a combination of federal and provincial taxes on goods and services in five Canadian provinces.The HST rate is 15% in all participating provinces except Ontario, where it is 13%.The concept behind the HST was to streamline the recording and collection of federal and provincial sales taxes by combining them into a single, uniform levy across Canada.Foreign purchasers of Canadian products do not have to pay HST provided that the goods or services will be solely used outside of the country.Critics argue that the HST shifts the burden of taxation to consumers, but proponents of the tax say it ultimately benefits consumers by lowering costs.


   Who Pays the HST in Canada?  

The HST is paid by purchasers at the point of sale (POS). The vendor collects the tax proceeds by adding the HST rate to the cost of goods and services and then remits the collected tax to the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA), the tax division of the federal government. The CRA later allocates the provincial portion of the HST to the respective province’s government.



Prior to the HST’s introduction in 1997, Canadian sales taxes were divided into the federal sales tax (GST) and the provincial sales tax (PST). Each province had its own rates, resulting in significant differences in sales taxes throughout Canada.



The concept behind the HST was to streamline the recording and collection of federal and provincial sales taxes by combining them into a single, consistent levy across the country. Advocates argue that it should reduce costs for businesses (and ultimately customers) since it simplifies their sales-tax-related bookkeeping.





15%

The tax rate of the HST in all participating provinces except Ontario, where it is 13%.



Unfortunately, in practice, the HST can often complicate companies’ lives instead. While the aim was to create a national sales tax, the Canadian government made adoption of the HST optional—and many provinces opted not to, keeping their separate systems and rates instead.



As a result, businesses operating across provincial lines or nationwide—either in physical locations or via ecommerce—have to deal with disparities in tax rates, depending on whether the customer is based in an HST province or a GST/PST province. (While the GST is 5% everywhere, the PST can range from 6% to 9.975%.)


   Canadian Provinces and the HST  

Five of Canada’s 13 provinces use the harmonized sales tax:



Newfoundland/Labrador (joined 1997)New Brunswick (joined 1997)Nova Scotia (joined 1997)Ontario (joined 2010)Prince Edward Island (joined 2010)



Of the remaining Canadian provinces, British Columbia, Saskatchewan, Québec, and Manitoba apply the provincial system in addition to the separate federal sales tax. Several others apply only the federal goods and services sales tax and do not impose local sales taxes: Alberta, Northwest Territories, Nunavut, and Yukon.






British Columbia adopted the HST in 2010, but then abandoned it three years later. reinstating its provincial sales tax system after an estimated 55% of the province’s residents voted against the system.


   Registering and Collecting the HST  

It is the responsibility of Canadian business owners located in one of the five participating provinces to collect and remit the HST. To start applying the sales tax, the business operator must register for a GST/HST account through the CRA, provided that the business makes $30,000 or more per year in total revenue.



Each province established its own percentage for PST collection and harmonized it with the GST when it joined the HST program. So the exact amount of the HST could differ, depending on which of the five provinces a business operates in. Originally, the rate ranged from 13% to 15%, but now almost every province imposes 15%.



So-called small suppliers—business owners with firms earning less than $30,000 in annual revenue—are not required to charge or remit the HST. However, they can still voluntarily register to collect the tax, since doing so allows them to claim input tax credits on the goods and services that they purchase in running their operations.


   Exempted Goods and Services  

While many goods and services are subject to the HST, some are zero-rated or tax-exempt. A zero-rated commodity or service is one that has an HST rate of 0%. These include products like basic groceries, books, and many agricultural and fishery goods.



Foreign purchasers of Canadian products do not have to pay the HST provided that the goods or services will be solely used outside of the country. However, nonresidents visiting Canada, such as tourists, are required to pay the HST. In some cases, they may qualify for an HST rebate.


   The HST’s Effect on Taxpayers  

There is still a constant debate as to how the HST impacts consumers and taxpayers.



Critics claim that the HST shifts the tax burden from businesses to consumers. Proponents of the HST argue that it actually lowers taxes. They say that the HST system reduces the cost of doing business, which effectively lowers the prices of consumer goods and services.




How does Canada’s harmonized sales tax (HST) work?
The HST is paid by purchasers at the point of sale (POS). Vendors collect the tax proceeds by adding the HST rate to the cost of goods and services. They then send the collected tax to the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA), the tax division of the federal government. The CRA later allocates the provincial portion of the HST to the respective province’s government.




What is the purpose of the HST?
The goal of the HST system is to streamline the recording and collection of federal and provincial sales taxes by combining them into a single, consistent levy across the country. 




Does the United States have an HST?
No, the U.S. does not have a federal sales or value-added tax. Most states impose some version of these taxes, but the revenue generated is not nationally distributed.


   The Bottom Line  

The harmonized sales tax (HST) is a combination of federal and provincial taxes on goods and services in five Canadian provinces. The HST rate is 15% in all participating provinces except Ontario, where it is 13%.



The HST was introduced in 1997 to streamline the recording and collection of federal and provincial sales taxes. Critics argue that the HST shifts the burden of taxation to consumers, but proponents of the tax say it ultimately benefits consumers by lowering costs.
Harry Markowitz (born 1927) is a Nobel Prize-winning American economist best known for developing Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT), a groundbreaking investment strategy based on his realization that the performance of an individual stock is not as important as the performance and composition of an investor's entire portfolio.



Since Markowitz introduced MPT to academic circles in his article, "Portfolio Selection" in The Journal of Finance in 1952, his original theory has fundamentally changed the way that people and institutions invest.



For his theory of allocation of financial assets under uncertainty, also known as the theory of portfolio choice, Markowitz shared the 1990 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences with William F. Sharpe and Merton Miller. Specifically, the Nobel Committee cited the theory of portfolio choice developed by Markowitz as the “first pioneering contribution in the field of financial economics.” The Nobel Committee also acknowledged that Markowitz’s original portfolio theory was the basis for “a second significant contribution to the theory of financial economics”: the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM), a theory of price formation for financial assets, developed by William Sharpe and other researchers in the 1960s.





Key Takeaways

Harry Markowitz revolutionized the way that individuals and institutions invest by developing MPT, a groundbreaking investment theory that demonstrated that the performance of an individual stock is not as important as the performance of an entire portfolio.Markowitz was one of three recipients of the 1990 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his theory of portfolio choice, which the Nobel Committee called the “first pioneering contribution in the field of financial economics.”His MPT theory was also cited by the Nobel Committee as the basis for the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM), the “second significant contribution to the theory of financial economics.”












Investopedia / Alison Czinkota


   Education and Early Career  

Markowitz earned an M.A. and a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Chicago, where he studied under famous academics, including the economists, Milton Friedman and Jacob Marschak, and the mathematician and statistician, Leonard Savage. While still an undergraduate, Markowitz was invited to join a prestigious economic research institute, the Cowles Commission for Research in Economics (now the Cowles Foundation at Yale University), under the direction of Tjalling Koopmans, a mathematician, economist, and Nobel Laureate.



In 1952, Markowitz joined the RAND Corporation, a global policy research institute, where he built large logistics simulation models. After a stint at General Electric building models of manufacturing plants, he returned to RAND to work on SIMSCRIPT, a computer simulation language that made it possible for researchers to reuse computer code rather than write new code for each analysis. When he left RAND to found Consolidated Analysis Centers, Inc (CACI) in 1962, he led the commercialization of a proprietary version of SIMSCRIPT. In addition to his current role as Adjunct Professor at the Rady School of Management at the University of California at San Diego, Markowitz is Co-Founder and Chief Architect of GuidedChoice, a San Diego-based financial advisor firm, where he heads the Investment Committee.


   The Development of Modern Portfolio Theory  

In his lecture to the Nobel Committee in 1990, Harry Markowitz said, "the basic concepts of portfolio theory came to me one afternoon in the library while reading John Burr Williams's Theory of Investment Value. Williams proposed that the value of a stock should equal the present value of its future dividends. Since future dividends are uncertain, I interpreted Williams's proposal to be to value a stock by its expected future dividends. But if the investor were only interested in expected values of securities, he or she would only be interested in the expected value of the portfolio; and to maximize the expected value of a portfolio one need invest only in a single security."



But Markowitz realized that investing in a single security “was not the way investors did or should act.” He knew that “investors diversify because they are concerned with risk as well as return.” He also knew that, while investors understood the benefits of diversification, they needed tools to determine the ideal level of diversification.



This insight guided Markowitz’s design of the Efficient Frontier, an investment tool that charts the level of diversification that will offer the highest return for an investor’s desired level of risk. If a certain portfolio lands on the “efficient frontier” section of the graph, it is considered efficient, which means it delivers the maximum return for that investor’s risk tolerance. Portfolios outside the efficient section of the graph have either too much risk vs. return or too little return vs. risk. Of course, because the risk tolerance and return expectations of each investor are different, there is no one efficient frontier.


   The Impact of Harry Markowitz's Modern Portfolio Theory  

Prior to Harry Markowitz's work on MPT, investing was largely seen in terms of the performance of individual investments and their current prices. Diversification was unsystematic at best.


  MPT and Diversification  

Although it took well into the 1960s for Markowitz's work to be properly appreciated, MPT has become a mainstay of investment strategy, and the benefits of diversification are widely understood by all money managers. Even robo-advisors, one of the most disruptive technologies in finance, draw on MPT when compiling suggested portfolios for users.


  Wall Street  

So much of Markowitz's work has become standard practice in portfolio management that fellow Nobel laureate Paul Samuelson summarized his contribution by claiming that “Wall Street stands on the shoulders of Harry Markowitz.”


  Mathematical Portfolio Management  

In 1954, when Markowitz was defending his doctoral dissertation on the application of mathematics to the analysis of the stock market, the idea was so unprecedented that Milton Friedman commented that his thesis was not even economics. By 1992, his ideas were so respected that the economist Peter Bernstein in Capital Ideas called his development of mathematical and statistical methods for portfolio management "the most famous insight in the history of modern finance."





Risk Correlation

Another major impact that Markowitz had on economics was that he was the first to understand the importance of assessing risk correlation—the fact that risk depends not only on the individual risk of each separate stock but also on the degree to which multiple stock values rise and fall together.
Fellow economist Martin Gruber credits Markowitz with the simple—but revolutionary—realization that investors should always assess the relationships between stocks, rather than look only at each stock in isolation.


   Criticisms of Modern Portfolio Theory  

As with any widely adopted theory, there have been criticisms of MPT.



A common one is that there is no absolute measure of how many stocks one needs to hold for proper diversification. It had also been argued that managing a portfolio according to MPT principles will nudge risk-averse investors into taking on more risk than they can tolerate.



Yet another criticism focuses on the need to move beyond MPT to address real-world systemic risk.


  Moving Beyond Modern Portfolio Theory  

Two critics of Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT) are Jon Lukomnik, Managing Director of Sinclair Capital and Senior Fellow of High Meadows Institute, a Boston-based policy institute focused on the role of business leadership in creating a sustainable society, and James Hawley, Head of Applied Research at TruValue Labs, a San Francisco-based start-up which provides artificial intelligence analytics to create sustainability/ESG metrics.



In 2021, Lukomnik and Hawley published a book, Moving Beyond Modern Portfolio Theory: It’s About Time!, to address what they call “the MPT paradox”: the fact that Markowitz’s MPT diversification works only to mitigate idiosyncratic risks, which are specific to certain assets, sectors, or asset classes—and does nothing to mitigate systematic risks, which could collapse an entire industry or the entire financial system.



Lukomnik and Hawley acknowledge that MPT was developed decades before certain systemic risks, such as climate change, antimicrobial resistance, and resource scarcity, were recognized as investment issues. However, they argue that these systemic risks to the environmental, social, and financial systems in the real world matter much more to returns than idiosyncratic risks associated with any individual security or company. In their book, they identify MPT’s lack of tools to address these real-world systemic risks as an urgent issue for modern investors.




What Does Markowitz View As the Biggest Mistake of Amateur Investors?
Harry Markowitz has said that “the chief mistake of the small investor is they buy when the market goes up, on the assumption that it’s going to go up further, and they sell when the market goes down, on the assumption that the market is going to go down further.”




What Does Harry Markowitz Think of Robo-Advisors?
When asked if robo-advisors operate on MPT principles, Markowitz said that they did: “They’re a way to bring advice to the masses. Robo-advisors can give good advice or bad advice. If the advice is good, great.”




What Did Markowitz Call His “A-ha” Moment?
Markowitz’s “a-ha” moment came when he was reading a book on mathematical probability—and he had his famous brainstorm about risk correlation: "that the volatility of the portfolio depends not only on the volatility of the constituents but to what extent they go up and down together.”


   The Bottom Line  

Since he developed Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT) in 1952, Harry Markowitz has been one of the most important pioneers of the new field of financial economics.



His groundbreaking work on concepts ranging from portfolio theory to computer programming language laid the foundation for how Wall Street operates today.



Markowitz's work has also popularized concepts like diversification and overall portfolio risk and return, shifting the focus away from the performance of individual stocks.
What Is the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976?  

The Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 requires large companies to file notifications with the Federal Trade Commission and the anti-trust division of Department of Justice prior to certain mergers and acquisitions or tender offers.﻿﻿



The law requires companies intending to merge to file an HSR Form, also called a "Notification and Report Form for Certain Mergers and Acquisitions" and generally known as a premerger notification report.﻿﻿ This gives regulators an opportunity to review the proposed merger based on antitrust laws.



President Gerald Ford signed the act into law as a set of amendments to existing antitrust laws, including the Clayton Antitrust Act.﻿﻿ The Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 is also known as the "HSR Act" or Public Law 94-435.﻿﻿





key takeaways

The Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 requires companies to file premerger notifications with the Federal Trade Commission and the Justice Department for certain acquisitions.﻿﻿The necessity of premerger notifications depends on three factors: the nature of the commerce, the size of the parties involved, and the size of the transaction.﻿﻿If regulators see potential anti-competitive issues, they could negotiate concessions with the companies or seek to preliminarily enjoin the transaction.﻿﻿


   How the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 Works  

Once companies file the required forms, a waiting period begins. The waiting period is usually 30 days, or 15 days for cash tender offers or an acquisition in bankruptcy.﻿﻿



The transaction can proceed once the waiting period ends or if the government terminates the waiting period early. If regulators see potential anti-competitive issues with the proposed merger, they will request additional information from the companies involved and extend the waiting period; they will negotiate an agreement with the companies to enact measures to restore competition; or they will seek to stop the transaction by filing a preliminary injunction in court.﻿﻿


  Premerger Tests  

Under the HSR Act, the following tests must be met to require a pre-merger filing:



The commerce test: Any party to a proposed transaction must be engaged in commerce or be involved in any activity that affects commerce. This requirement is so broad that it will be met in nearly all cases.
The size-of-person test: As of 2020, either the acquiring or acquired person must have total assets or annual net sales of $188 million or more. The other party must have total assets or annual net sales of $18.8 million or more.
The size-of-transaction test: This test is met if a certain amount of assets or voting securities—at least $94 million as of 2020—is being acquired. It is also met if 15% or more of voting securities are acquired and, as a result, the acquiring party gains control of an entity with annual net sales or total assets of $94 million or more.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿



For 2020, the base filing threshold for the HSR Act, which determines whether a transaction requires a premerger notification, is $904 million. The statutory size-of-person threshold is between $18.8 million and $188 million. Alternatively, the statutory transaction size test that applies to all transactions (even if the "size-of-person" threshold is not met) is $376 million.﻿﻿ 


   Special Considerations  

HSR forms carry a filing fee that varies depending on the size of a transaction. For example, transactions worth more than $94 million but less than $188 million require a $45,000 filing fee. Transactions valued at more than $188 million but less than $940.1 million incur a $125,000 filing fee. The filing fee is $280,000 for transactions greater than $940.1 million.﻿﻿
What Is Harvard Business School?  

Harvard Business School is an internationally renowned business school located at Harvard University in Boston, Massachusetts. Founded in 1908, it admits roughly 1,000 students to its MBA program per year and regularly ranks among the top business schools in the world.



In addition to its Master in Business Administration (MBA) program, the school also offers various other doctoral and executive education programs, some of which are provided in collaboration with partnering institutions such as Harvard Law School and the John F. Kennedy School of Government.



The school is consistently ranked as one of the best business schools in the world. U.S. News & World Report ranks Harvard Business School as the fifth best business school and the Financial Times rates its MBA program as no. 4 in the world.





Key Takeaways

Harvard Business School is one of the most famous and highly-rated business schools in the world.It is principally known for its MBA program, which consistently ranks as one of the best.In addition to its MBA program, the school offers online certificates, an Executive MBA, and doctoral programs.As of 2023, the school has a network of 89,000 living alumni, many of whom are employed in management positions in areas such as finance, management consulting, and professional services.The school is extremely difficult to get into, and those who do and graduate, often take jobs at prestigious companies with high-paying salaries.


   Understanding Harvard Business School  

Harvard Business School was founded in 1908 and established the world's first MBA program. In 1922, the doctoral program and the Harvard Business Review were both founded. The school regularly ranks in the top five graduate business programs internationally and is undoubtedly one of the best-known business schools in the world.



One reason for its substantial brand recognition is the many books and other publications put forward by the Harvard Business School Publishing Corporation (HBSPC). In addition to publishing the scholarly works of Harvard Business School’s roughly 270 full-time faculty members, the HBSPC is also responsible for publishing the famous Harvard Business Review.



As is typical of the so-called Ivy League universities, Harvard Business School is very selective of who it admits into its program. The school has an acceptance rate of approximately 10%. The doctoral program is typically even more competitive, with a 4% admission rate between 2012 and 2018.



For those students whose applications are accepted, the financial cost of attendance can pose a substantial barrier, with the MBA program costing approximately $115,000 per year for the 2023-2024 school year. Of this, roughly $75,000 is attributable to direct tuition fees while the remainder is due to ancillary costs such as health insurance, course and program materials, rental accommodation, and other living expenses.


   Academic Programs  

Harvard Business School offers a variety of programs, including an MBA, Executive MBA, online certificate courses, joint MBA degrees, and doctoral programs. The Ph.D. concentrations are in accounting and management, business economics (includes finance), health policy (management), management, marketing, organizational behavior, strategy, and technology and operations management.



The online certificates are available in the concentrations of business essentials, strategy, leadership and management, finance and accounting, entrepreneurship and innovation, and business in society. The joint MBA degrees are available with the Harvard Kennedy School, the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, the Law School, the Medical School, the School of Dental Medicine, and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.


   Cost  

The total cost for the MBA program for the 2023-2024 academic year is $115,638 for a single individual. This includes tuition, a student health fee, health insurance, course and program materials fee, and nine months of housing, food, transportation, and other living expenses. Tuition alone is $74,910. Note that the MBA program is two years.


   Alumni of Harvard Business School  

The Harvard Business School's stated mission is to educate leaders who make a difference in the world. Some notable alumni include Salman Khan, founder of the self-education website Khan Academy; Meg Whitman, former president and CEO of eBay; James D. Wolfensohn, former president of the World Bank; Henry Paulson, former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury and CEO of Goldman Sachs; Sheryl Sandberg, COO of Meta (Facebook); Michael Bloomberg, founder and CEO of Bloomberg; Mitt Romney, former Bain & Company CEO and current senator, and George W. Bush, former President of the U.S. Alumni and friends of the school have provided a high level of support for the school throughout its history.



As of 2023, Harvard Business School had 89,000 living alumni collectively representing 173 countries. The most prominent industries in which they work are finance (venture capital, investment banking, and investment management), consulting, marketing, and general management.




How Much Does a Harvard MBA Cost?
For the 2023-2024 academic year, a Harvard MBA costs approximately $115,000. Of this, approximately $75,000 is tuition, with the rest of the costs related to health insurance, books, supplies, and housing.




What GPA Is Required for Harvard's MBA Program?
Though Harvard does not say it requires a specific GPA for its MBA program, the class of 2024 had an average GPA of 3.70.




Why Is Harvard Business School So Famous?
Harvard Business School is famous for many reasons. It offers students an exceptional education by some of the brightest people in their fields, the school has a large alumni network of graduates with prominent jobs in almost every industry, the school publishes well-respected research papers, and it is competitive, only accepting those with excellent academic and non-academic profiles.


   The Bottom Line  

Harvard Business School is one of the best business schools in the world, and as such, one of the most difficult to get into. It boasts a large and prominent alumni network and regularly publishes well-respected papers on a variety of business topics. The school is very expensive to attend, so prospective students should weigh the costs and benefits before deciding.
What Is the Harvard MBA Indicator?  

The Harvard MBA Indicator is a contrarian long-term stock market indicator that evaluates the percentage of Harvard Business School MBA graduates that accept "market sensitive" jobs. Market sensitive jobs exist in fields such as investment banking, securities sales and trading, private equity, venture capital, and leveraged buyouts.



If more than 30% of a year's graduating class take jobs in these areas, the Harvard MBA Indicator is said to generate a sell signal for stocks. Conversely, if less than 10% of graduates take jobs in this sector, it represents a long-term buy signal for stocks. In between can be regarded as "neutral".





Key Takeaways

The Harvard MBA Indicator generates long-term market signals based on the proportion of new Harvard MBA's who take jobs in the securities markets.It is a contrarian indicator, where if more than 30% take such jobs it is a sell signal, and if fewer than 10% do it is a buy signal.The Harvard MBA Indicator generally produces more sell than buy signals, and correctly predicted the 1987, 2000, and 2008 bear markets in stocks.


   Understanding the Harvard MBA Indicator  

Started and maintained in 2001 by investment consultant and Harvard Business School graduate Roy Soifer, who received his MBA there in 1965. The Harvard MBA Indicator gave sell signals in 1987 and in 2000, which were both terrible years for the stock market. The esoteric indicator is meant to represent long-term signals based on the relative attractiveness of Wall Street jobs. The more grads that are enticed to go there, the more bloated Wall Street becomes and the more likely the market is nearing a top. When stock markets are doing poorly, fewer grads want to enter the sector.



This indicator is contrarian in that it is based on a similar theme to the old market adage that "when everyone else is looking to get in, it's time to get out". In other words, herding behavior can be indicative of a reversal.


   Performance of the Harvard MBA Indicator  

According to Soifer, the Harvard MBA Indicator produces far more sell signals than buy signals. The last time it reached the 10% long-term “Buy” level was back in 1982, heralding what turned out to be a historic bull market. Soifer weites, "as far as I know, the record low was reached in 1937, when only three MBAs, about 1%, went into Wall Street. It was a good time to buy." The record high of 41% occurred in 2008, right before the stock market crashed during the 2008-09 financial crisis leading to the Great Recession.



Soifer calls his index a “rather esoteric but nonetheless generally accurate” long-term indicator of the direction of the stock market.
What Is a Harvest Strategy?  

A harvest strategy is a marketing and business strategy that involves a reduction or a termination of investments in a product, product line, or line of business so that the entities involved can reap—or, harvest—the maximum profits. A harvest strategy is typically employed toward the end of a product's life cycle when it is determined that further investment will no longer boost product revenue.





Key Takeaways

A harvest strategy involves reducing spending on an established product in order to maximize profits.Typically, harvest strategies are used on outdated products as profits are reinvested in newer models or newer technologies.Strategies for venture capitalists to exit successful investments also are referred to as harvest strategies.


   Understanding Harvest Strategies  

Products have life cycles, and when the item nears the end of its life cycle, it usually will not benefit from additional investments and marketing efforts. This product stage is called the cash cow stage, and it is when the asset is paid off and requires no further investment. Therefore, employing a harvest strategy will allow companies to harvest the maximum benefits or profits before the item reaches its decline stage. Companies often use the proceeds from the ending item to fund the development and distribution of new products. Funds also may go toward promoting existing products with high growth potential.



For example, a soft-drink company may terminate investments in its established carbonated product to reallocate funds to its new line of energy drinks. Companies have several harvest strategy options. Often they will rely on brand loyalty to drive sales, thereby reducing or eliminating marketing expenses for new products. During harvest, the company can limit or eliminate capital expenses, such as the purchase of new equipment needed to support the ending item. Also, they can restrict spending on operations.



A harvest strategy may involve the gradual elimination of a product or product line when technological advances render the product or line obsolete. For example, companies selling stereo systems gradually eliminated sales of record turntables in favor of CD players as compact disc sales soared and record sales declined. Also, when product sales consistently fall below the target level of sales, companies may gradually eliminate the related products from their portfolios.






Computers, cellphones, and other electronics products are common objects of harvest strategies as they quickly become outdated and profits are put into newer gadgets.


   Special Considerations  

Harvest strategy also refers to a business plan for investors such as venture capitalists or private equity investors. This method is commonly referred to as an exit strategy, as investors seek to exit the investment after its success. Investors will use a harvest strategy to collect the profit from their investment so that funds can be reinvested into new ventures. Most investors estimate that it will take between three and five years to recoup their investment. Two common harvest strategies for equity investors are to sell the company to another company or to make an initial public offering (IPO) of company stock.
What Is a Hash?  

A hash is a mathematical function that converts an input of arbitrary length into an encrypted output of a fixed length. Thus, regardless of the original amount of data or file size involved, its unique hash will always be the same size. Moreover, hashes cannot be used to "reverse-engineer" the input from the hashed output since hash functions are "one-way" (like a meat grinder; you can't put the ground beef back into a steak). Still, if you use such a function on the same data, its hash will be identical, so you can validate that the data is the same (i.e., unaltered) if you already know its hash.



Hashing is also essential to blockchain management in cryptocurrency.





Key Takeaways

A hash is a function that meets the encrypted demands needed to secure information.Hashes are of a fixed length, making it nearly impossible to guess the hash if someone was trying to crack a blockchain.The same data will always produce the same hashed value.Hashes are one of the backbones of the blockchain network.A hash is developed based on the information present in a block header.


   How Hashes Work  

Typical hash functions take inputs of variable lengths to return outputs of a fixed length. A cryptographic hash function combines the message-passing capabilities of hash functions with security properties. Hash functions are algorithms that determine how information is encrypted.



For example, Secure Hashing Algorithm 256 (SHA-256) goes through a process to encrypt the input it receives by:



Converting it to binaryCreating hash valuesInitializing constantsChunking data into bitsCreating a message scheduleRunning a compression loopModifying the final values



Using SHA-256, the word “Hello” will produce an output that is the same number of characters (64) as "Hello world" and “Hello John." However, the hash will be significantly different for all three—keep in mind that capital letters change the hash also:



Hello: 185f8db32271fe25f561a6fc938b2e264306ec304eda518007d1764826381969Hello world: 64ec88ca00b268e5ba1a35678a1b5316d212f4f366b2477232534a8aeca37f3cHello John: a8119595d77342cc73c93697a7f70920d3f4ded5d458e31907607e997ff76868



The function used to generate the hash is deterministic, meaning it will produce the same result each time the same input is used. SHA 256 can generate a hashed output in milliseconds with very little computing power, but it also makes determining the input difficult. This makes hashing ideal for securing cryptocurrency because it would take thousands of years to reverse the encryption to determine the original input with modern technology.



Hash functions are commonly used data structures in computing systems for tasks such as checking the integrity of messages and authenticating information. Cryptographic hash functions add security features, making detecting the contents of a message or information more difficult.



In particular, cryptographic hash functions exhibit these three properties:



They are collision-free: This means that no two different input hashes should map to the same output hash. They can be hidden: It is difficult to guess the input value for a hash function from its output. They should be puzzle-friendly: It should be difficult to select an input that provides a predefined output. Thus, the input should be selected from a distribution that's as wide as possible. 






Because of the features of a hash, they are used extensively in online security—from protecting passwords to detecting data breaches to checking the integrity of a downloaded file.


   Hashing and Cryptocurrencies  

The backbone of a cryptocurrency is the blockchain, which is a globally distributed ledger formed by linking together individual blocks of transaction data through hashing. The blockchain only contains validated transactions, which prevents fraudulent transactions and double spending of the currency. Cryptocurrency mining and validation involves working with this hash.



Solving a cryptocurrency hash starts by using the block header from the previous block as input and generating a hash. Each block header contains a version number, a timestamp, the hash used in the previous block, the hash of the Merkle root, the nonce, and the target hash.



The goal is to generate a hash that is equal to or less than the network's target hash. In the hash is a sequence of numbers called the nonce, or number used once. The mining program focuses on the nonce, which starts at zero in the first attempt. If the attempt fails, the program adds 1 to the nonce, and generates the hash again. It adds 1 to each failed attempt until generating a hash less than or equal to the target hash, then it is accepted as the solution.



Solving the hash requires the miner to continue trying to generate the right value, which requires a significant amount of trial-and-error. The miner who solves the hash is given the reward, and the block is added to the blockchain.



It is highly unlikely that a miner will successfully come up with the correct nonce on the first try, meaning that the miner may potentially test a large number of nonce options before getting it right. The greater the difficulty—a measure of how hard it is to create a hash that meets the requirement of the target hash—the longer it is likely to take to generate a solution.




What Is a Hash Function?
Hash functions are algorithms that transform or "map" a given set of data into a bit string of fixed size, also known as the "hash."




How Is a Hash Calculated?
A hash function utilizes complex algorithms that convert data of arbitrary length to data of fixed length (for instance, 256 characters). If you change one bit anywhere in the original data, the entire hash value changes, making it useful for verifying the fidelity of digital files and other data.




What Are Hashes Used for in Blockchains?
Hashes are used in several parts of a blockchain system. Each block header contains the previous block's hash, which ensures that nothing has been tampered with as new blocks are added. Cryptocurrency blockchains use hashes to secure information and make the ledger immutable.


   The Bottom Line  

In a cryptocurrency blockchain, a hash is a deterministic hexadecimal number. This means that no matter how many characters the input has, the hash will always be the same number of characters. For instance, Bitcoin's hashes are always 64 digits.



Hashes are used to secure information—in the case of cryptocurrency, they are used to ensure data contained in the blocks on a blockchain are not altered. The information encrypted by the hashing function is validated by network participants when they attempt to generate a hash less than the network target. Once the target hash is reached, the network closes the block—consensus is reached after the block closes because the network continues to validate transactions and block information after the hash is solved.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein. As of the date this article was written, the author does not own cryptocurrency.
What Is a Hashed Timelock Contract (HTLC)?  

A hashed timelock contract (HTLC) is a type of smart contract used in blockchain applications. It reduces counterparty risk by creating a time-based escrow that requires a cryptographic passphrase for unlocking.



In practical terms, this means that the person receiving the funds in a transaction has to perform two actions to access the funds: enter the correct passphrase and claim payment within a specific timeframe. If they enter an incorrect passphrase or do not claim the funds within the timeframe, they lose access to the payment.





Key Takeaways

A hashed timelock contract (HTLC) reduces counterparty risk in decentralized smart contracts by effectively creating a time-based escrow that utilizes a cryptographic passphrase.This type of smart contract requires the receiver of a payment to acknowledge it within a certain period of time or forfeit it.Payments using HTLCs are conditional and so have efficiency benefits for blockchain transactions. This property makes HTLCs a fundamental tool used by the lightning network.


   Understanding Hashed Timelock Contracts (HTLCs)  

A Hashed Timelock Contract (HTLC) uses several elements from existing cryptocurrency transactions. For example, HTLC transactions use multiple signatures consisting of a private and public key to verify and validate transactions. However, two elements distinguish HTLC from standard cryptocurrency transactions with smart contracts—the hashlock and the time contract.


  Hashlock  

The first element is the hashlock. A hashlock is a hashed—or cryptographically scrambled—version of a public key generated by the person that initiated the transaction. The associated private key is then used to unlock the original hash.



In HTLC, the initiating party generates a key and hashes it. The hash is stored in a pre-image, which is revealed during the final transaction. HTLCs are programmed to expire after a certain period passes or a specific number of blocks are generated, creating a known termination date and time.






To conduct a transaction using HTLC, both parties need to open channels with each other. This is generally done using a wallet, an exchange, or both.


  Timelock  

The second important element of HTLC is a timelock. Two different timelocks are used to set time constraints on contracts generated using HTLC. The first one is CheckLockTimeVerify (CLTV). It uses a time base to lock and release cryptocurrency. This means that time constraints are hardcoded, and coins are released only at a specific time and date or a specific height of block size.



Atomic swaps—cross-chain trading between cryptocurrencies— are often achieved using HTLCs. Additionally, Bitcoin’s lightning network (LN) also employs HTLCs.



The second one is CheckSequenceVerify (CSV). It is not dependent on time; instead, it uses the number of blocks generated as a tracking measure to determine when to finalize a transaction.


   The Process in a Hashed Timelock Contract  

Suppose Alice wants to exchange her Bitcoin for Litecoin from Bob. A typical HTLC transaction between them takes place as follows:



Alice generates a hash from her Litecoin private key and sends it to Bob. She also generates a pre-image of the hash by creating a nominal transaction. This pre-image will help her validate and finalize the transaction.Bob also generates a hash from his key and sends it to Alice. In addition to this, he creates a pre-image by conducting a nominal transaction (in Litecoin). Once Alice receives Bob’s Litecoin transaction, she signs it using the original key that is already available with her in the pre-image. Bob does likewise on his end, using his private key to unlock Alice’s transaction.Once Alice and Bob enter their keys and agree to the transaction, the smart contract executes it. Neither can change the transaction once it executes, which removes the possibility that one could trick the other by quickly canceling the exchange.




What Is a Timelock Contract?
A timelock contract is a smart contract embedded in a blockchain that executes a transaction at a specific time. They are used in hashed timelock contracts and payment channels where specific payment times are needed.




Does Bitcoin Have Smart Contracts?
Initially, Bitcoin's blockchain was not able to execute smart contracts. However, the Taproot upgrade in 2021 allowed the blockchain to use smart contracts in transactions.




What Is a Smart Contract?
A smart contract is a program stored on a blockchain that executes when specific conditions are met.




How Much Does a Smart Contract Cost?
On the Ethereum blockchain, a smart contract deployment takes gas, which costs Gwei (a lower denomination of ether). Depending on the complexity of the contract, it can cost billions of Gwei to deploy a smart contract. Less complex contracts like a simple exchange are much cheaper.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is Hashgraph Consensus?  

Hashgraph consensus is an alternative to—or the next generation of—the technology behind blockchain consensus mechanisms. Instead of using the computational power of large networks to verify transactions, transactions are recorded and confirmed via a protocol that uses node communication.



A hashgraph is a decentralized ledger in much the same way a blockchain is. It stores information, secures it with cryptography, limits access, and uses the stored data as verification. However, a hashgraph network reaches consensus in a much different way than a blockchain does.



Hashgraph consensus is reached using concepts called "gossip," "gossip about gossip," and virtual voting. Designers of the system report that it solves the problems inherent to consensus-building algorithms, such as proof of work (PoW), in terms of better speed and higher efficiency.



Learn more about hashgraph consensus and how it is different and more efficient than blockchain consensus mechanisms.





Key Takeaways

Hashgraph consensus uses information about information rather than the content itself to create consensus.Primary information in the hashgraph is called "gossip," and secondary information is called "gossip about gossip."The hashgraph distributed ledger system has not received wide adoption by the crypto community.






Hashgraph consensus—gossip, gossip about gossip, and virtual voting—is the mechanism the Hedera distributed ledger uses to validate and confirm transactions.


   Understanding Hashgraph Consensus  

Hashgraph is an alternative to blockchain. Similar to a blockchain, it stores data and encrypts it. A hash is generated for transaction information, and new transactions or data are added and built upon. However, a blockchain is a ledger that consists of blocks of data. Each block is linked to the previous block using its data, verified by a network of validators to create the next block. This process creates one chain. A hashgraph isn't one chain—all information is kept in an encrypted ledger, and every user participates in the validation process, not just the validators.



For example, Alice creates a transaction with Bob, and all of the information she knows is given to him. Bob then makes a transaction with Kris. All of the information Bob has is communicated to Kris. Kris transacts with Eli, and everything she knows is transferred. This continues throughout the network, with the chain essentially gossiping about the events taking place. Every node knows what all other nodes know, so there is no need for computational validation.



As the gossip spreads from user to user, the network uses algorithms and automation to ensure the state of the hashgraph ledger is updated and the same.


  Gossip  

Information about data is called "gossip." The data structure contained in a transaction are:



A timestampMore transactions or zerosTwo hashes from the parent containersAn encrypted signature.



The two hashes are the last events from two syncing nodes that compare their information. Nodes are continuously creating events and syncing.






Hashgraph—the ledger—is more efficient than blockchain because no energy is wasted on blocks that are not accepted. All information is retained in a hashgraph.


  Gossip About Gossip  

Information about transaction data is called "gossip about gossip." Information is synchronized in the hashgraph network using an event called a "gossip sync." A gossip sync is a collaborative history of "gossip events" throughout the hashgraph. In this way, data cannot be altered or tampered with, and there is consensus.


  Virtual Voting  

Virtual voting occurs when the nodes compare events and reach a consensus via a voting algorithm. Here's how it works—a transaction is assigned a timestamp as a node receives it. As it passes to the other nodes in the network, it is assigned a timestamp that is a median of all of the timestamps for that transaction received by the nodes in the network. The median acts as the result of the vote. This creates a more fair transaction system than a blockchain because the network decides, not one node.


  Fault Tolerance  

As with most distributed ledgers and blockchain, there is always a chance that a participant in the network is not honest. There might be delays in communication or network latency that causes nodes not to communicate properly.



Consensus mechanisms are designed to deal with these faults by setting fault tolerance criteria. Developers need to consider and account for bad actors, bad connections, network latency, and other network issues. Hashgraph consensus can tolerate one-third of the network acting maliciously. It is reportedly asynchronous Byzantine fault tolerant—the highest security level—which means that honest nodes on a network continue operating even if there are bad actors.


   How Is Hashgraph Different From Blockchain?  

Hashgraph is a data structure that maintains the records of who told who what and in what order they did so. It is a collaborative history of gossip events as participants add and share information, which validates transactions much faster than a blockchain.



Blockchain adds previous transaction information to new transaction information and encrypts it. A third party is needed to validate the transactions between parties. Hashgraph doesn't need this slow process because of the gossip protocol.






Hashgraph consensus is much faster than blockchain consensus mechanisms, with average transaction confirmation times in seconds rather than minutes.



Bitcoin and many other cryptocurrencies have issues with message timing. However, hashgraph's asynchronous Byzantine fault tolerance overcomes the problem of message timing by assuming that lost or delayed messages will eventually make it to their destinations.



For example, if two transactions occur simultaneously, a blockchain network chooses which order the transactions occurred. In some blockchains, transaction fees prioritize confirmation. Other networks might decide which transaction is confirmed based on how many tokens a validator has staked. In these blockchains, one node influences the outcome.



Hashgraph consensus eliminates the influence one node or a group of nodes can have on transactions. Because there is a timestamp on each transaction, and each transaction is communicated to the entire network, transaction timing issues are resolved.




What Is Hashgraph Consensus?
Hashgraph consensus is a mechanism used in a hashgraph distributed ledger to validate transactions.




How Does Hashgraph Consensus Work?
Hashgraph consensus works using consensus timestamps and "gossip," in which each node communicates everything it knows to random nodes in "gossip events."




Will Hashgraph Replace Blockchain?
Hashgraph is designed to be—and marketed as—an improvement on blockchain technology, but whether it will replace it remains to be seen. It doesn't yet have as much developer interest and adoption as blockchain technology.
What Is Hawala?  

Hawala is an informal method of transferring money without any physical money actually moving. It is described as a "money transfer without money movement." Another definition is simply "trust."



Hawala is used today as an alternative remittance channel that exists outside of traditional banking systems. Transactions between hawala brokers are made without promissory notes because the system is heavily based on trust and the balancing of hawala brokers' books.





Key Takeaways

Hawala (sometimes referred to as underground banking) is a way to transmit money without any currency actually moving.Hawala networks have been used since ancient times. Today they are found among expats of developing countries sending remittances home.Hawala provides anonymity in its transactions, as official records aren't kept and the source of money can't be tracked.Hawala is also finding a footing in the world of financial technology, which grants access to money transfers among the unbanked and underbanked populations of the world.Some countries, like India, have made hawala illegal due to its informal nature and absence of regulation or oversight.


   Understanding Hawala  

Hawala originated in South Asia during the 8th century and is used throughout the world today, particularly in the Islamic community, as an alternative means of conducting funds transfers. Unlike the conventional method of transferring money across borders through bank wire transfers, money transfer in hawala is arranged through a network of hawaladars or hawala dealers.



Hawala dealers keep an informal journal to record all credit and debit transactions on their accounts. Debt between hawala dealers can be settled in cash, property, or services. A hawaladar who doesn't keep their end of the deal in the implied contractual system of hawala will be tagged as one who has lost their honor and will be excommunicated from the network or region.






Hawala is thought to come from the Arabic word for "assignment" or "bill of exchange" or the Hindi word for "reference."



Migrant workers who frequently send remittances to relatives and friends in their countries of origin find the hawala system advantageous. Hawala facilitates the flow of money between poor countries where formal banking is too expensive or difficult to access.



In addition to the convenience and speed of conducting hawala, the fees are usually low compared with the high rates that banks charge. To encourage foreign exchange transfers through hawala, dealers sometimes exempt expatriates from paying fees. The system is also easy to use, as one only needs to find a trusted hawaladar to transfer money.


   Benefits of Hawala  

Hawala allows people to transfer money even if they don't have formal banking relationships or access to established financial networks. For people without a government-issued ID or bank account, hawala networks may be the only way to send remittances, particularly if the destination is in another country. In other circumstances, it may be cheaper or faster than dealing with the paperwork of official channels.



For this reason, hawala networks are frequently used in countries where there are strict capital controls or sanctions on the flow of money. Traders and expatriates from sanctioned countries, like Iran, might use hawala networks to make payments to their counterparties in neighboring countries.


   Example of Hawala  

How does hawala work? Let’s say Maryam needs to send $200 to Amir, who lives in another country. She will approach a hawaladar, Nasir, and give him the amount of money she wants Amir to receive, including the details of the transaction; the name of the recipient, city, and password.



Nasir contacts a hawala dealer in the recipient’s city, Muhammed, and asks him to give Amir $200 on the condition that Amir correctly states the password. Muhammed transfers the money to Amir from his own account, minus commission, and Nasir will owe Muhammed $200.



The transaction initiated by Maryam and concluded by Amir’s receipt of the funds takes only one to two days or, in some instances, just a few hours. No money is moved and no IOUs are signed and exchanged by Nasir and Muhammed, as the hawala system is backed only by trust, honor, family connections, or regional relationships.






Hawala provides anonymity in its transactions, as official records aren't kept and the source of money that is transferred can't be tracked. Because money laundering aims to hide the source of cash that is generated from illegal activities, hawala is often used as a system for money laundering.


   Hawala and Illegal Activities  

The very features that make hawala an attractive avenue for legitimate patrons also make it attractive for illegitimate uses. Thus, hawala is frequently referred to as underground banking. This is because money launderers and terrorists take advantage of this system to transfer funds from one location to another.



In addition, corrupt politicians and the wealthy who would prefer to evade taxes use hawala to anonymize their wealth and activities. Cash generated from business transactions that aren't recorded can't be taxed.



Hawala is also used to fund terrorism, which makes it more difficult to stop terrorism. A large portion of discovering terrorist cells involves tracing the movement of money, as terrorist organizations are funded and need money to buy weapons and feed their people. Hawala transactions make this movement of money easy as there is no paper trail from the source of funds to the terrorist organization.


   Hawala and Government Regulation  

Because hawala transfers aren't routed through banks and, hence, aren't regulated by governmental and financial bodies, many countries have been led to re-examine their regulatory policies in regard to hawala.



For example, in India, the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) are the two major legislative systems that deter the use of hawala in the country. India prohibits informal hawala transactions and people from entering into them by strictly defining the types of transactions not allowed, which include the creation or procurement of any asset outside India.



In Pakistan, informal Hawala transactions are prohibited as well. The country specifies what entities are allowed to make remittances and currency exchanges. There are laws in place that require money changers to register and comply with regulations to become foreign exchange companies within two years and if they don't register, they aren't allowed to operate.



Afghanistan's more than 300 money exchangers have organized themselves into a self-regulatory body that has created rules and regulations that all members must comply with. It has been more difficult for the country to bring unregistered money exchangers into the fold to prevent illegal activities through hawala exchanges.






Some countries have made hawala illegal due to the difficulty of enforcing regulations.



Most countries have laws related to informal funds transfer systems, like hawala, that seek to curb the negative activities created by such a system.


   Hawala and Fintech  

Some fintech companies are implementing the hawala system in providing financial services to the unbanked and underbanked populations of the world. Mobile banking and payment platforms, such as Paga and M-Pesa, are revolutionizing the financial system in certain African countries by promoting financial inclusion through the hawala system of financial services.




Is Hawala Illegal?
Hawala trades are illegal in the U.S. and many other countries because financial regulations require money services businesses to obtain appropriate licenses and follow anti-money laundering laws.




What Is Hawala Money?
Hawala money is funds that are transferred using the hawala system, in which no actual movement of funds from one account to another account happens, no paper trail is created, and no promissory notes exist.




What Is the Punishment for Hawala in India?
The punishment for hawala in India is:A monetary penalty of up to three times the sum involved with a cap of 200,000 Indian rupees (about $2,433).Confiscation of the currency, security, or other money and property related to the violation.Imprisonment, if the penalty is not paid.




Is Hawala Legal in Dubai?
Hawala is legal in Dubai as long as the hawala provider is registered with the United Arab Emirates Central Bank and abides by the regulations that exist.


   The Bottom Line  

Hawala is an informal funds transfer system that allows for the shifting of money from one person to another without the actual movement of money. It is a simple process that requires no documentation and, therefore, is an anonymous system of moving money. This has been beneficial for many poor countries where individuals move abroad to work and send money home, avoiding costly transfer fees and other required documentation.



Because of its anonymity, hawala also has been a means for illegal activity to take place, such as money laundering and the financing of terrorism. For this reason, many countries prohibit hawala or have placed regulations on it.
What Is an Inflation Hawk?  

An inflation hawk, also known in economic jargon as a hawk, is a policymaker or advisor who is predominantly concerned with the potential impact of interest rates as they relate to monetary policy.



What does it mean to be hawkish? Hawks are seen as willing to allow interest rates to rise in order to keep inflation under control, even if it means sacrificing economic growth, consumer spending, and employment.



A hawk can be contrasted with a dove.





Key Takeaways

Hawks are policy makers and advisors who favor higher interest rates to keep inflation in check.Inflation can occur when economic growth “overheats,” which higher interest rates are thought to moderate.The opposite of a hawk is a dove, who prefers an interest rate policy that is more accommodative to stimulate spending in an economy.Depending on the state of the U.S. economy, policy makers may shift between a hawkish or dovish stance.


   Understanding Inflation Hawks  

A hawk generally favors relatively higher interest rates if they are needed to keep inflation in check. In other words, hawks are less concerned with economic growth and more focused on the potential of recessionary pressure brought to bear by high inflation rates.



Whether being hawkish is a good or appropriate stance will depend on the strength of the economy and other macroeconomic factors. This is because hawkish policies that can lower inflation can also lead to economic contraction and higher unemployment, and can sometimes backfire and lead to deflation.



Although it is common to use the term “hawk” as described here in terms of monetary policy, it is also used in a variety of contexts. In each case, it refers to someone who is intently focused on a particular aspect of a larger pursuit or endeavor. A budget hawk, for example, believes the federal budget is of the utmost importance—just like a generic hawk (or inflation hawk) is focused on interest rates. A war hawk, similarly, pushes for armed conflict to resolve disputes as opposed to diplomacy or restraint.






The opposite of a hawk is known as a dove, or an economic policy advisor who prefers monetary policies that involve low interest rates. Doves typically believe that lower rates will stimulate the economy, leading to an increase in employment.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Hawkish Policies  
  Advantages  

Although the term “hawk” is often levied as an insult, high interest rates can carry economic advantages. While they make it less likely for people to borrow funds, they make it more likely that they will save money.



In some cases, banks end up lending money more freely when interest rates are higher. High rates dissipate risk, making banks potentially more likely to approve borrowers with less-than-perfect credit histories. Moreover, if a country increases interest rates but its trading partners do not, that can result in a fall in the prices of imported goods.


  Disadvantages  

Higher interest rates can become deflationary, making prices cheaper. While this can be a short-term positive, deflation can often be worse than moderate inflation in the long run. Persistent deflation means that a dollar tomorrow will be worth more than one today, and worth even more in a week or a month. This incentivizes people to hoard money and put off large purchases until much later, when ostensibly they will be even less expensive in terms of the dollar’s greater purchasing power.



With higher interest rates, consumers will borrow less and spend less on credit. Higher mortgage rates will also put a damper on the housing market and can cause housing prices to fall in turn. Higher rates on car loans can have a similar effect on the automobile market.



Hawkish policies will likewise tend to reduce a company’s desire to borrow and invest, as the cost of loans and interest rates on bonds rise. Moreover, companies will be less eager to hire and retrain workers in such an environment.



Hawkish policies can also impact domestic manufacturers and trade. If the relative inflation rate in the home country is falling relative to the inflation rate in a trading partner, the exchange rate should adjust to keep prices in line with the dollar appreciating relative to the trading partners. When the home currency strengthens, the prices of imported foreign goods become relatively cheaper, hurting domestic producers. At the same time, domestic exports become relatively more expensive for overseas consumers, further hurting domestic manufacturing.






Hawkish policies tend to favor savers and lenders (who can enjoy higher interest rates). They also make imports and traveling abroad cheaper.Hawkish policies tend to negatively impact borrowers and domestic manufacturers. They also make exports and domestic tourism more expensive.




Pros and Cons of Hawkish Policy

Pros

Can stem runaway inflation
Increases the savings rate
Cheaper imports
Tourists to foreign destinations have greater purchasing power



Cons

Can hurt domestic producers
Makes borrowing more expensive for consumers and firms
Can lead to deflation









These aren’t the only instances in economics in which animals are used as descriptors. Bulls and bears are also used—the former refers to a market affected by rising prices, while the latter is typically one where prices are falling.




Who is considered an inflation hawk?
Esther George, the Kansas City, Mo., Federal Reserve (Fed) president, is considered a hawk. George favors raising interest rates and fears the potential price bubbles that accompany inflation.Loretta Mester, the Cleveland Fed president, also fits into this category. Mester studied under Charles Plosser, the former president of the Fed Bank of Philadelphia and a committed hawk. She worries about inflation caused by the low interest rates championed by doves.Of the current voting members of the Fed, Raphael Bostic, the Atlanta Fed president, is considered to be quite hawkish.




Why is it called ‘hawkish’?
Hawks and hawkish policy are more aggressive in nature, whether in terms of monetary policy or military stance during a potential conflict. It is named after hawks, the aggressive birds of prey.The opposite are a dove and dovish policies, seen as more meek or conservative. These epitomize the peaceful symbolism of another bird, the dove.




Can hawks become doves and vice versa?
Yes, as the recent history of U.S. Fed leadership shows.Alan Greenspan, who served as chair of the Fed from 1987 to 2006, was considered to be fairly hawkish in 1987, but he changed over time to a relatively dovish stance. Ben Bernanke, who served in the post from 2006 to 2014, also alternated between hawkish and dovish tendencies. Janet Yellen, Fed chief from 2014 to 2018, was generally seen as a dove who was committed to maintaining low lending rates. Jerome Powell, named to the post in 2018, was rated as neutral (neither hawkish nor dovish) by the Bloomberg Intelligence Fed Spectrometer.




How are interest rates determined?
At eight annual meetings, a group from the Fed examines economic indicators such as the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and the Producer Price Index (PPI) and determines if interest rates should go up or down, or stay the same. Those who support high rates are hawks, while those who favor low rates are labeled doves.High interest rates make borrowing less attractive. As a result, consumers become less likely to make large purchases or take out credit. The lack of spending equates to lower demand, which helps to keep prices stable and prevent inflation.In contrast, low interest rates entice consumers into taking out loans for cars, houses, and other goods. Consumers spend more, and, ultimately, inflation occurs.It is the Fed’s responsibility to balance economic growth and inflation, and it does this by manipulating interest rates.


   The Bottom Line  

Inflation hawks adopt policies to quickly stamp out inflation, such as aggressively raising interest rates and other contractionary measures. Inflation hawks believe that low target inflation rates, around 2% to 3%, should be maintained, even it comes at the expense of economic growth or employment. The opposite policy stance is to be dovish.



Correction—May 26, 2023: A previous version of this article incorrectly identified the types of policies hawks impact. It's monetary policy.
What Is the Hawthorne Effect?  

The Hawthorne Effect is the supposed inclination of people who are the subjects of an experiment or study to change or improve the behavior being evaluated only because it is being studied and not because of changes in the experiment parameters or stimulus. It was first identified by organizational researchers in the 1920s.



More recent research suggests that the Hawthorne Effect may not actually be real and that the original study was flawed.





Key Takeaways

The Hawthorne Effect is when subjects of an experimental study attempt to change or improve their behavior simply because it is being evaluated or studied.The term was coined during experiments that took place at Western Electric’s factory in the Hawthorne suburb of Chicago in the late 1920s and early 1930s.The Hawthorne Effect is thought to be unavoidable in studies and experiments that use humans as subjects.Whether or not the Hawthorne Effect is real remains up for debate.


   How the Hawthorne Effect Works  

The Hawthorne Effect refers to the fact that people will modify their behavior simply because they are being observed. The effect gets its name from one of the most famous industrial history experiments that took place at Western Electric’s factory in the Hawthorne suburb of Chicago in the late 1920s and early 1930s. However, subsequent analyses of the effect have revealed that the original results were likely overstated along with several flaws in the study's design and execution.



The Hawthorne experiments were originally designed by the National Research Council to study the effect of shop-floor lighting on worker productivity at a telephone parts factory in Hawthorne. However, the researchers were perplexed to find that productivity improved, not just when the lighting was improved, but also when the lighting was diminished. Productivity improved whenever changes were made in other variables such as working hours and rest breaks.



The researchers concluded that the workers’ productivity was not being affected by the changes in working conditions, but rather by the fact that someone was concerned enough about their working conditions to conduct an experiment on it.


   The Hawthorne Effect and Modern Research  

Research often relies on human subjects. In these cases, the Hawthorne Effect is the intrinsic bias that researchers must take into consideration when studying their findings. Although it can be challenging to determine how a subject's awareness of a study might modify their behavior, researchers should nevertheless strive to be mindful of this phenomenon and adapt accordingly.



While there is no universally agreed-upon methodology for achieving this, experience and keen attention to the situation can help researchers prevent this effect from tarnishing their results.






Although it can be challenging to determine how a subject's awareness of a study might modify their behavior, researchers should nevertheless strive to be mindful of this phenomenon and adapt accordingly.


   The Hawthorne Effect in Medical Practice  

As an example of the Hawthorne Effect, consider a 1978 study conducted to determine if cerebellar neurostimulators could reduce the motor dysfunction of young cerebral palsy sufferers. The objective testing revealed that the patients in the study claimed that their motor dysfunctions decreased and that they embraced the treatment. But this patient feedback countered the quantitative analysis, which demonstrated that there was scant increased motor function.



Indeed, the increased human interaction with doctors, nurses, therapists, and other medical personnel during these trials had a positive psychological impact on patients, which consequently fostered their illusion of physical improvements to their conditions. When analyzing the results, researchers concluded that the Hawthorne Effect negatively impacted the data, as there was no evidence that the cerebellar neurostimulators were measurably effective.




Is the Hawthorne Effect Real?
While the Hawthorne Effect is taught in business schools and sociology courses around the world, recent scholarship has begun to question its validity. According to Scientific American, out of the first three original experiments, only one showed improved productivity, the second found no improved productivity, and in the third productivity actually worsened. What is suspicious is that the sponsors of the study ordered the destruction of all data, including everything that had been sent to MIT, and for no report to be written. When the original data finally did resurface, several scholars were able to debunk the initial findings. Additionally, modern attempts to replicate the Hawthorne Effect have been inconclusive. Only seven out of 40 such studies found any evidence of the effect.




Why Is It Called the Hawthorne Effect?
The name comes from where the original studies took place: in a factory complex known as the Hawthorne Works, outside of Chicago, IL.




What Were Some of the Flaws of the Original Hawthorne Study?
Scholars have identified several flaws in the studies that led to the Hawthorne Effect. For one, the sample size was very small: just five individual workers. Moreover, the members of the sample changed over time. The researchers conducting the study were not blinded and so could have been biased. The data collected, even if it had been sound, has been further criticized as being misinterpreted.
What Is Hazard Insurance?  

Hazard insurance is coverage that protects a property owner against damage caused by fires, severe storms, hail/sleet, or other natural events. As long as the specific weather event is covered within the policy, the property owner will receive compensation to cover the cost of any damage incurred. Typically, the property owner will be required to pay for their premiums with an escrow account, but this practice will depend on the exact details of the policy.



Colloquially, hazard insurance is often considered synonymous with catastrophe insurance. Although both deal with coverage for large-scale, natural disasters, they are technically different. Within the insurance industry, hazard insurance refers to a portion of a general homeowners insurance policy that protects the structure of the home; catastrophe insurance usually refers to a separate, freestanding policy that covers specific types of disaster, including man-made ones.





Key Takeaways

Hazard insurance protects a property owner against damage caused by fires, severe storms, and other natural events.Hazard insurance usually refers to a section of a general homeowners insurance policy that protects the structure of the home.Mortgage lenders often require you to have homeowners insurance to get hazard coverage.In areas prone to certain risks, such as floods or landslides, homeowners often opt to take out separate or additional hazard insurance to cover specific contingencies.


   How Hazard Insurance Works  

Hazard insurance protects a property owner against damage caused by fires; lightning; hail-, wind-, snow-, or rainstorms; or other natural events. Hazard coverage is usually a subsection of a homeowners insurance policy that protects the main dwelling and other nearby structures, such as a garage. To be prepared for every contingency, homeowners should be sure that specific, common hazards are covered in their insurance policy package.



The amount of hazard insurance required depends on what it would cost to replace the home in the event of a total loss. This dollar amount may differ significantly from the property's value on the current real estate market. Policies are typically written for one year and are renewable.






Hazard insurance generally refers to the coverage of the structure, roof, and foundation of your home only, though in some policies it can be extended to furnishings and personal belongings, as well.



Homeowners can often elect to beef up the hazard coverage of their policy. It is much better to pay the upfront costs of extra hazard insurance than to deal with the associated legal and medical problems out of pocket. As severe weather events become more commonplace across North America due to climate change, increased hazard insurance may become necessary for more homeowners.


   Hazard Insurance and Mortgages  

If you have or are taking out a mortgage on your home, it's common for your lender to require you to carry homeowners insurance. Strictly speaking, what they want you to have is, in fact, hazard coverage since it is the portion of the homeowners insurance directly related to the home structure itself (as opposed to personal liability, loss of use, or personal property coverage).



Usually, purchasing a general homeowners policy will satisfy the lender's requirement, though the level of protection required will depend on the laws of the local municipality and other special considerations. If you have a very expensive property in a high-risk area, the lender may require additional coverage.


   Separate Hazard Insurance Policies  

In some areas, certain natural or weather-related activity is excluded from the hazard coverage of homeowners insurance—usually because the area is so prone to these events, and it's too costly for the insurance issuer to include them in a standard policy. For example, a Florida beachfront property can be susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms; California properties located close to fault lines face earthquake threats.



If homeowners live in a high-risk area, they often need a separate hazard insurance policy to adequately protect their property, such as a flood insurance policy, or a policy that protects property against landslides (such movements of the earth are rarely covered by conventional homeowners insurance's hazard coverage).
What Is the Hazard Rate?  

The hazard rate refers to the rate of death for an item of a given age (x). It is part of a larger equation called the hazard function, which analyzes the likelihood that an item will survive to a certain point in time, based on its survival to an earlier time (t). In other words, it is the likelihood that if something survives to one moment, it will also survive to the next.



The hazard rate only applies to items that cannot be repaired and is sometimes referred to as the failure rate. It is fundamental to the design of safe systems in applications and is often relied on in commerce, engineering, finance, insurance, and regulatory industries.





Key Takeaways

The hazard rate refers to the rate of death for an item of a given age (x). It is part of a larger equation called the hazard function, which analyzes the likelihood that an item will survive to a certain point in time based on its survival to an earlier time (t).The hazard rate cannot be negative, and it requires a set "lifetime" on which to model the equation.


   Understanding the Hazard Rate  

The hazard rate measures the propensity of an item to fail or die depending on the age it has reached. It is part of a wider branch of statistics called survival analysis, which is a set of methods for predicting the amount of time until a certain event occurs, such as the death or failure of an engineering system or component.



The concept is applied to other branches of research under slightly different names, including reliability analysis (engineering), duration analysis (economics), and event history analysis (sociology).


   Calculating the Hazard Rate  

The hazard rate for any time can be determined using the following equation:








h


(


t


)


=


f


(


t


)


/


R


(


t


)



h(t) = f(t) / R(t)


h(t)=f(t)/R(t)



F(t) is the probability density function (PDF), or the probability that the value (failure or death) will fall in a specified interval, such as a specific year. R(t), on the other hand, represents the survival function, or the probability that something will survive past a certain time (t).






The hazard rate cannot be negative, and it is necessary to have a set "lifetime" on which to model the equation.


   Example of the Hazard Rate  

The probability density calculates the probability of failure at any given time. For instance, a person is certain to die eventually. As you get older, you have a greater chance of dying at a specific age, since the average failure rate is calculated as a fraction of the number of units that exist in a specific interval, divided by the number of total units at the beginning of the interval.



If we were to calculate a person's chances of dying at a certain age, we would divide one year by the number of years that person potentially has left to live. This number would grow larger each year.



A person aged 60 would have a higher probability of dying at age 65 than a person aged 30 because the person aged 30 still has many more units of time (years) left in their life, and the probability that the person will die during one specific unit of time is lower.


   The Shape of the Hazard Rate Curve  

In many instances, the hazard rate can resemble the shape of a bathtub. The curve slopes downwards at the beginning, indicating a decreasing hazard rate, then levels out to be constant, before moving upwards as the item in question ages.



Think of it this way: when an auto manufacturer puts together a car, its components are not expected to fail in its first few years of service. However, as the car ages, the probability of malfunction increases. By the time the curve slopes upwards, the useful life period of the product has expired and the chance of non-random issues suddenly occurring becomes much more likely.




What Is the Difference Between the Failure Rate and Hazard Rate?
The hazard rate and failure rate are essentially the same thing. Failure rate is basically another way to say hazard rate.




What Is the Hazard Rate Used For?
The hazard rate seeks to determine the chances of survival of its subject at a certain time point. It can effectively be applied to any item with a set lifetime and is commonly used in engineering, medicine, and insurance.




What Is the Bathtub Hazard Rate Curve?
The bathtub curve is a visual representation of the typical failure rate of a product or group of products over time. The bathtub image maps out three distinct periods. The initial downward slope, also known as “infant mortality,” represents the timeframe when the product is first used and goes from a high failure occurrence to a low one. Next, the line levels out and becomes flat, depicting the useful life period when assets are expected to have a relatively constant failure risk. Then finally the slope moves upward, taking the form of a bathtub, as the product in question enters its wear-out period and degrades at an accelerated pace.


   The Bottom Line  

The hazard rate is a simple yet effective way to determine the likelihood that an item will survive to a given time point. That might not sound particularly useful or groundbreaking. However, in certain industries, the concept is used to make key decisions.
What Is a Hazardous Activity?  

Hazardous activity refers to a recreational pursuit that life or disability insurance policy considers high-risk. The activities are not typically covered by insurance as they carry an increased potential for injury or loss. Hazardous activities include scuba diving, BASE jumping, hang gliding, race car driving, flying a plane, horseback riding, bungee jumping, parasailing, and off-roading. Further, some employment falls into this category such as some construction work, logging, aircraft pilots, offshore oil rig worker, offshore fisherman, structural steelworkers, and underground mining.



If a hobby falls under an insurance company’s definition of hazardous activity, the policyholder may not be able to purchase a life insurance or disability insurance plan, or they may pay a higher premium because the insurer considers the action high-risk.



Another possibility is that the insurer will issue a policy, but it will explicitly exclude the hazardous activities from the coverage. The insurance policy will not pay benefits for death or disability from a designated hazard, but will still provide benefits for other covered accidents and events.





Key Takeaways

Hazardous activity is a hobby or activity that an insurance policy considers to be high-risk.These types of activities are typically not covered by standard life or disability insurance policies due to the increased risk of injury or loss.Activities may take the form of a hobby or be a particular line of employment.Examples can include hang-gliding, piloting small aircraft, or race car driving, among others.Adventure Activities Coverage is an insurance rider that requires an additional premium to provide coverage for a high-risk hobby or job.


   Understanding Hazardous Activity  

Some policyholders may omit a dangerous hobby or work on their insurance application to secure approval. Not being truthful on an application for insurance is fraud, called non-disclosure. The 1984 Insurance Contracts Act made it a duty to disclose all information that can reasonably be relevant to the final decisions of the insurer.



The insurance provider has corrective actions it may take if it learns the applicant lied on the application for coverage. During the underwriting process, the insurer will review medical records and past insurance coverage, noting injuries sustained from hazardous activities. The insurer may deny the application or adjust the policy and premium payment to reflect the hazards covered. When the insurer learns of dangerous nondisclosed enterprises after writing a policy, it may demand back payment of adjusted premiums, limit the benefit payment for death or dismemberment or even cancel the insurance policy as a whole.



It is essential to understand that not all insurance providers consider the same activities hazardous. Also, the occasional participation in a hazardous activity, such as going scuba diving for the first time on a vacation, will not necessarily classify you as a high-risk applicant.


   Special Considerations  

Some disability policies have exclusion riders. Alcohol and substance abuse limitations are key examples of exclusions. Coverage for a disability arising from substance abuse or alcoholism is often capped at two years, but in some cases may not be covered at all.



Prescription medication may also trigger the substance abuse limitation. Some medications are easily abused, and insurers may argue you are taking more than warranted for your injury or illness. If the substance abuse limitation kicks in, your legitimate insurance claim for a physical condition may be restricted or even denied.



Other exclusions may include some lesser-known exclusions, including:



Injuries caused by aircraft (except to passengers on scheduled airline flights)War or acts of warSuicide attemptsNormal pregnancyInjuries on the jobIntentional acts causing disability






Smoking is also considered a hazardous activity. Insurance companies maintain separate rate schedules for smokers (who pay more) and non-smokers.


   Alternative Coverage for Hazardous Activity  

Some travel and sports insurance companies work with extreme sports enthusiasts and adventure travelers by offering Adventure Activities Coverage. This insurance is not the standard travel insurance that protects from lost luggage, canceled flights, and medical emergencies. The design of adventure activities insurance specifically addresses the needs of those with more extreme pursuits or lifestyles. It often comes in the form of an exclusion waiver, since most travel insurance plans exclude coverage for adventurous activities and hazardous sports.



One hazardous activity that sometimes manages to avoid exclusion is scuba diving, depending on the level of education and experience of the participants. More specifically, some insurers provide plans in which Scuba divers who are Professional Association of Diving Instructors (PADI) or National Association of Underwater Instructors (NAUI) receive coverage in the base plan without the need for an extra rider, and thus additional costs. Most other adventure activities would require an additional rider at an extra charge.


   Real-World Example  

In India, the South Mumbai District Consumer Disputes court upheld a ruling during an appeal from Nagin Parekh. The court was hearing a complaint that Mr. Parekh entered against an insurance provider who denied coverage for an accident he had during a 2012 ballooning trip.



Parekh was on an organized hot air balloon ride when the balloon suddenly lost altitude. The balloon's basket landed roughly, and the pilot and co-pilot jumped out. Before the basket could be secured the balloon craft rose into the air again, carrying Parekh and other adventurers aloft. The balloon again crashed into the ground, more violently this second time, and Parekh sustained injuries to both of his legs and received treatment for fractured bones.



Parekh's insurance denied medical and disability coverage and rejected his claim for reimbursement. The company stated, "one who went for the ride did it at [their own] "self-risk" which the appeals court upheld. The court ruled that "hot air balloon riding always involves [a] high-risk of life and it is hazardous in nature."




What is considered high risk for life insurance?
High-risk activities are a concern for life insurers because they can cause an untimely death for someone who is insured, earlier than actuarial models would otherwise predict. Such activities may include piloting aircraft, paragliding, bungee jumping, scuba diving, racing cars, off-roading, and so on. The exact activities will vary by insurer.




What is a high risk policy?
High-risk policies insure individuals that are more likely to have a claim, whether it be an aggressive driver or an ill individual. Such policies will be at a higher cost and may have certain other limitations.




What can disqualify you from life insurance?
You may not be approved for life insurance during the underwriting process if they deem you to be too high of a risk. This can come from a combination of lifestyle, health, family history, and financial situation. In addition, if you are found to be lying on your insurance application, it will disqualify you from coverage.
What Is the Head and Shoulders Pattern?  

A head and shoulders pattern is used in technical analysis. It is a specific chart formation that predicts a bullish-to-bearish trend reversal. The pattern appears as a baseline with three peaks, where the outside two are close in height, and the middle is highest.



The head and shoulders pattern forms when a stock's price rises to a peak and then declines back to the base of the prior up-move. Then, the price rises above the previous peak to form the "head" and then declines back to the original base. Finally, the stock price peaks again at about the level of the first peak of the formation before falling back down.



The head and shoulders pattern is considered one of the most reliable trend reversal patterns. It is one of several top patterns that signal, with varying degrees of accuracy, that an upward trend is nearing its end.





Key Takeaways

A head and shoulders pattern is a technical indicator with a chart pattern of three peaks, where the outer two are close in height, and the middle is the highest.A head and shoulders pattern—considered one of the most reliable trend reversal patterns—is a chart formation that predicts a bullish-to-bearish trend reversal.An inverse head and shoulders pattern predicts a bearish-to-bullish trend.The neckline rests at the support or resistance lines, depending on the pattern direction.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding the Head and Shoulders Pattern  

A head and shoulders pattern has four components:



After long bullish trends, the price rises to a peak and subsequently declines to form a trough.The price rises again to form a second high substantially above the initial peak and declines again.The price rises a third time, but only to the first peak level, before declining again.The neckline, drawn at the two troughs or peaks (inverse).



The first and third peaks are the shoulders, and the second peak forms the head. The line connecting the first and second troughs is called the neckline.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


  Inverse Head and Shoulders  

The opposite of a head and shoulders chart is the inverse head and shoulders, also called a head and shoulders bottom. It is inverted with the head and shoulders bottoms used to predict reversals in downtrends. This pattern is identified when the price action of a security meets the following characteristics:



The price falls to a trough, then rises
The price falls below the former trough, then rises again
The price falls again but not as far as the second trough
Once the final trough is made, the price heads upward toward the resistance (the neckline) found near the top of the previous troughs.






An inverse head and shoulders pattern is also a reliable indicator, signaling that a downward trend is about to reverse into an upward trend. In this case, the stock's price reaches three consecutive lows, separated by temporary rallies.



Of these, the second trough is the lowest (the head), and the first and third are slightly shallower (the shoulders). The final rally after the third dip signals that the bearish trend has reversed, and prices are likely to keep rallying upward.


   What Does the Head and Shoulders Pattern Tell You?  

The head and shoulders pattern indicates that a reversal is possible. Traders believe that three sets of peaks and troughs, with a larger peak in the middle, means a stock's price will begin falling. The neckline represents the point at which bearish traders start selling.



The pattern also indicates that the new downward trend will likely continue until the right shoulder is broken—where prices move higher than the prices at the right peak.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Head and Shoulders Pattern  



Advantages

Experienced traders identify it easily
Defined profit and risk
Big market movements can be profited from
Can be used in all markets



Disadvantages

Novice traders may miss it
Large stop loss distances possible
Unfavorable risk-to-reward possible





  Advantages Explained  

Experienced traders identify it easily: The pattern is very recognizable to an experienced trader.Defined profit and risk: Short and long entry levels and stop distance can be clearly defined with confirmation openings and closings.Big market movements can be profited from: The timeframe for a head and shoulders pattern is fairly long, so a market can move significantly from entry to close price.Can be used in all markets: The pattern can be used in forex and stock trading.






While traders agree that the pattern is a reliable indicator, there is no guarantee that the trend will reverse as indicated.


  Disadvantages Explained  

Novice traders might miss it: The head and shoulders pattern may not present with a flat neckline; it may be skewed, which can throw off new traders.Large stop loss distances possible: Large downward movement over long timeframes can result in a large stop distance.Neckline can appear to move: If the price pulls back, the neckline might be retested, confusing some traders.




What Does a Head and Shoulders Pattern Tell You?
The head and shoulders chart is said to depict a bullish-to-bearish trend reversal and signals that an upward trend is nearing its end. Investors consider it to be one of the most reliable trend reversal patterns.




How Reliable Is a Head and Shoulders Pattern?
The most common entry point is a breakout of the neckline, with a stop above (market top) or below (market bottom) the right shoulder. The profit target is the difference between the high and low with the pattern added (market bottom) or subtracted (market top) from the breakout price. The system is not perfect, but it does provide a method of trading the markets based on logical price movements.




Can Head and Shoulders Turn Bullish?
An inverse head and shoulders, also called a "head and shoulders bottom," is similar to the standard head and shoulders pattern but inverted, with the head and shoulders top used to predict reversals in downtrends. It is a bearish-to-bullish indicator.




What Is the Opposite of a Head and Shoulders Pattern?
The inverse head and shoulders pattern is the opposite of the head and shoulders, indicating a reversal from a bearish trend to a bullish trend.


   The Bottom Line  

The head and shoulders is a pattern used by traders to identify price reversals. A bearish head and shouders has three peaks, with the middle one reaching higher than the other two. It indicates a reversal of an upward trend.



A bullish head and shoulders has three troughs, with the middle one reaching lower than the other two. It indicates a reversal of a downward trend.
What Is a Head-Fake Trade?  

A head-fake trade occurs when a security's price moves in one direction, but then reverses course and moves in the opposite direction. The head-fake trade gets its name from a tactic used by a basketball or football player to confuse the opposition, leading with their head to pretend that they are moving in one direction but then moving in the other way. The head-fake trade occurs most often at key breakout points, such as major support or resistance levels, or with moving averages like the 50-day or 200-day simple moving average (SMA).





Key Takeaways

A head-fake trade moves in one direction, usually countertrend, but then reverses course and moves in the opposite direction, back in line with the overall trend.Head-fake trades occur most frequently at key breakout points, such as major support or resistance levels, or closely watched moving averages, for example.Stop-loss selling or buying at these levels is usually the cause of a head-fake trade.Head-fake trades can lead to significant losses, as they often occur before the start of a major trend in the opposite direction. 


   Understanding a Head-Fake Trade  

Consider a situation where a major market index has reached new highs amid deteriorating economic fundamentals. Traders who are looking to short the index will closely monitor significant technical levels to assess whether the advance is beginning to break down. Suppose the index advance stalls and begins to drift lower, trading below a key short-term moving average. The bears might rush in at this point, based on their trading view that the index decline has begun. But if the index subsequently reverses course and heads higher, this would be a classic head-fake trade.



Contrarians often try to profit from head-fake trades because their trading philosophy embraces a willingness to go against the crowd. They argue that institutional traders push a security's price through closely watched support/resistance areas to find additional liquidity to fill larger orders at a better price for their clients.



Traders and investors who fall for a head-fake trade can incur significant losses, as such trades often occur before the start of a major trend in the opposite direction. That's why it's imperative to maintain strict adherence to stop-loss orders with these instances to help minimize risk.


   The Head-Fake Trade and Breakouts  

An initial breakout is typically followed by some level of pullback. As price retraces to the original breakout level or somewhat further down, traders are left to determine whether the pullback is the beginning of a head fake—a false breakout—or whether it is temporary, and the market will soon continue in the direction of the primary trend. In the latter case, the pullback may present another opportunity to enter a breakout move at a more advantageous level.


   Example of a Head-Fake Trade  

During 2022, the U.S. dollar was on a massive winning streak against all but a few currencies. The chart below shows the U.S. dollar against the Hungarian forint (USD/HUF) in a clear long-term uptrend (USD strengthening/HUF weakening). One can discern multiple pullbacks, but all are contained by the dominant rising channel, with one key exception, highlighted in the red oval. Price fell below the key uptrend support line on an intraday basis, but managed to regain that trendline support before the end of the day.



This is a classic example of a countertrend, head-fake pattern. If one made a trading decision based on the break of trendline support, they would have learned in short order (by the end of the day) that the break was false and constituted a head-fake price movement. Tight stops or the simple fact that the USD-HUF pair finished the day back inside the dominant up channel would have told traders that this was a head fake. This was also confirmed by the fact that nothing new on in fundamentals had altered the basis for the USD to continue to strengthen.












TradingView




How Can I Tell If Price Is Moving in a New Direction or If It's Just a Head Fake?
Head-fake trades usually only last a short period of time, perhaps an hour or a day. If the price move coincided with a break of key technical significance, and that technical level is subsequently regained, you're very likely looking at a head-fake move. That's why it's important to keep stop-loss orders tight if you have gone with the price break, so as not to get caught in a head fake, and, more important, miss the potential resumption of the prior trend.




What Causes a Head-Fake Price Move?
Typically a head-fake move will involve a test of important technical support or resistance, such as trendline support in an uptrend, or a test of key moving averages. These technical levels are made to be tested, and frequently stop-loss orders to buy/sell are placed around that price level. If the price move tests or breaks these levels, stop-loss orders may be triggered, bringing in temporary buying/selling pressure. If the technical level is regained within a short period of time (hours for day traders; days for longer-term traders), the market has likely shown its hand as a head fake, or a false break of that technical level.




How Much Should I Risk on Going with a Move That Might Be a Head Fake?
By definition, a head fake is countertrend, so you need to be prepared with tight stop losses in case it is in fact a head fake. In terms of how much to risk, a quarter to a half of your usual position is conservative and reasonable to go with a potential head-fake set-up, due to the tenuous nature of the scenario. That way you're committing only a relatively small portion of your risk capital to the breakout trade and keeping tight stop-loss orders to minimize losses.


   The Bottom Line  

A head fake refers to a false breakout of a significant technical level. For example, the current price trend is higher; a head fake occurs when a move lower below key support occurs and catches the market flat-footed, which can lead to outsized moves on the break of that technical level. Head-fake price action is all too common in markets, and represents a counter-trend breakout most often at a significant technical price point.



A key element to consider in deciding whether to go with the breakout or if it's just a head fake, is how much and for how long the break of the key price level lasts. Frequently, the buying/selling surrounding the break of a key price point is due to stop loss orders around a technical level. Once the stop loss buying/selling is done, there may be no real news to sustain the break. On the other hand, fresh news may have surfaced, potentially leading to a counter-trend movement and not a head fake. That's why it's critical to be aware of any fresh news that could lead to a legitimate countertrend move or breakout. If there is none, it is less likely to be real breakout and more likely just a head fake.
What Is Head of Household (HOH)?  

Head of household is a filing status on tax returns used by unmarried taxpayers who support and house a qualifying person. Taxpayers may file tax returns as head of household (HOH) if they are unmarried and pay more than half the cost of supporting and housing a qualifying person.



The head of household filing status is meant to give single or separated individuals with dependents a financial boost. Taxpayers eligible to classify themselves as an HOH get higher standard deductions and lower tax rates than taxpayers who file as single or married filing separately.





Key Takeaways

Head of household is a filing status on tax returns used by unmarried taxpayers who support and house a qualifying person.To qualify for head of household (HOH) tax filing status, you must file a separate individual tax return, be considered unmarried, and have a qualifying child or dependent.The qualifying person must generally be either a child or parent of the HOH.The HOH must pay for more than one-half of the qualifying person’s support and housing costs.The purpose of the HOH filing status is to provide single or separated individuals with dependents a financial boost.


   Understanding Head of Household (HOH)  

Head of household is a filing status available to taxpayers who meet certain qualifying thresholds. They must file separate individual tax returns, be considered unmarried, and have a qualifying dependent, such as a child or parent. Further, the HOH must pay more than one-half the cost of supporting the qualifying person and more than one-half the cost of maintaining that qualifying person’s primary home. Here's who can file.






The IRS provides a breakdown of what constitutes a qualified person in Table 4 of Publication 501.


  Unmarried  

To be considered unmarried, the HOH must be single, divorced, or regarded as unmarried. For example, married taxpayers would be regarded as unmarried if they did not live with their spouse during the last six months of the tax year. The status further requires that the HOH meet either of these two requirements:



The HOH is married to a nonresident alien whom they elect not to treat as a resident alien.
The HOH is legally separated under a divorce or separate maintenance decree by the last day of the tax year.






Married taxpayers are considered unmarried if they have not lived with their spouse for the last six months of the tax year.


  Financially Support a Qualifying Person  

An HOH must pay for more than one-half of the cost of a qualifying person’s support and housing costs. The HOH must also pay more than one-half of the rent or mortgage, utilities, repairs, insurance, taxes, and other costs of maintaining the home where the qualifying person lives for more than half of the year. The home must be the taxpayer’s own home unless the qualifying person is the taxpayer’s parent and the home is the property of that parent. 






If the qualifying person is a parent who lives at another address, it's still possible to file as head of household—provided they are dependent on you and you cover more than half the cost of keeping up their home.


  Personal Exemption Suspended  

The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) resulted in the suspension of the personal exemption through 2025. Back when there was one, HOH filers had to be able to claim an exemption for their qualifying person. Taxpayers could release their exemption to a noncustodial parent in a divorce proceeding or a legal separation agreement and remain eligible to file as an HOH.


   Head of Household vs. Single  

If you qualify, there can be significant advantages to filing as head of household rather than single. There are two main reasons for this:



One is that the tax brackets are wider for people filing as head of household, rather than as single. For example, in 2022, single filers may reach the top of the 12% bracket with $41,775 ($44,725 in 2023), whereas heads of households may have up to $55,900 ($59,850 in 2023).Second, there is a larger standard deduction for people filing as head of household. This means that you can earn more money before you start paying taxes on it. In 2022, the standard deduction for people filing singly is $12,950 ($13,850 in 2023), compared with $19,400 for those filing as HOH ($20,800 in 2023).


   Examples of Filing as Head of Household  

Filing as an HOH can provide significant savings for taxpayers. Below we compare the tax burden for an individual earning $70,000 using the different filing statuses.


  HOH vs. Single or Married Filing Separately  

For 2022 tax returns, which are due April 2023, the HOH has a standard deduction of $19,400, reducing their $70,000 taxable income to $50,600. From that amount, $14,650 will be taxed at 10%, and $35,900 at 12%, bringing the total tax bill to $1,465 + $4,308 = $5,773.



In comparison, a taxpayer filing as single or married filing separately qualifies for a standard deduction of $12,950, reducing their taxable income from $70,000 to $57,050. Of that $57,050, $10,275 will be taxed at 10%, $31,499 at 12%, and the remaining $15,276 at 22%, resulting in a total tax bill of $1,027.5 + $3,779.88 + $3,360.72 = $8,168.1.



Thus, filing as an HOH saved this hypothetical taxpayer $2,395.10.



For the 2023 tax year, these savings will increase even more as income limits are adjusted for inflation, and the standard deduction rises $1,400 for HOH to $20,800, versus $900 to $13,850 for single filers.











2022 Tax Brackets for Single Filers, Married Couples Filing Jointly, and Heads of Households




2022 Tax Rate
For Single Filers
For Married Individuals Filing Joint Returns
For Heads of Households


 10%
$0 to $10,275
$0 to $20,550
$0 to $14,650


 12%
$10,276 to $41,775
$20,551 to $83,550
$14,651 to $55,900


 22%
$41,776 to $89,075
$83,551 to $178,150
$55,901 to $89,050


 24%
$89,076 to $170,050
$178,151 to $340,100
$89,051 to $170,050


 32%
$170,051 to $215,950
$340,101 to $431,900
$170,051 to $215,950


 35%
$215,951 to $539,900
$431,901 to $647,850
$215,951 to $539,900


 37%
$539,901 or more
$647,851 or more
$539,901 or more



Source: Internal Revenue Service











2023 Tax Brackets for Single Filers, Married Couples Filing Jointly, and Heads of Households




2023 Tax Rate
For Single Filers
For Married Individuals Filing Joint Returns
For Heads of Households


 10%
$0 to $11,000
$0 to $22,000
$0 to $15,700


 12%
$11,001 to $44,725
$22,001 to $89,450
$15,701 to $59,850


 22%
$44,726 to $95,375
$89,451 to $190,750
$59,851 to $95,350


 24%
$95,376 to $182,100
$190,751 to $364,200
$95,351 to $182,100


 32%
$182,101 to $231,250
$364,201 to $462,500
$182,101 to $231,250


 35%
$231,251 to $578,125
$462,501 to $693,750
$231,251 to $578,100


 37%
$578,126 or more
$693,751 or more
$578,101 or more



Source: Internal Revenue Service




Who Qualifies as Head of Household?
To file taxes as head of household, you must be considered unmarried, pay at least half of the household expenses, and have either a qualified dependent living with you more than half the year or a parent for whom you cover half of housing costs.




Should I Claim Single or Head of Household Status?
For tax purposes, it is almost always better to be head of household. Head of household filers have a lower tax rate and higher standard deductions than single filers.




What Is the Standard Deduction for Head of Household?
In the 2022 tax year, the portion of income not subject to tax for heads of households is $19,400. In the 2023 tax year, that threshold increases to $20,800.


   The Bottom Line  

Head of household (HOH) is a filing status for tax returns. It is used by unmarried taxpayers who support and house a qualifying person. To qualify for head of household (HOH) tax filing status, you must file a separate individual tax return, be considered unmarried, and have a qualifying child or dependent.



The purpose of the HOH filing status is to provide single or separated individuals with dependents a financial boost. If you qualify, it is almost always better to be head of household. Head of household filers have a lower tax rate and higher standard deductions than single filers.
What Is a Head Trader?  

A head trader is the manager of a trading business, responsible for the positions, risk, and ultimately, the profitability of that business. In a registered securities firm, the head trader supervises all traders and other personnel within their purview and may also trade themselves. Most notably, the head trader is charged with ensuring regulatory and internal compliance for every employee who is part of the trading operation (i.e. not just traders). A head trader may also be referred to as a "head of trading."





Key Takeaways

A head trader is the manager of a trading business, responsible for the positions, risk, and ultimately, the profitability of that business.A head trader may report to a chief investment officer or portfolio manager and will have a key role in fulfilling and executing individual trade requests.A head trader should be among the most knowledgeable individuals at a firm regarding the markets and trading architecture/environment.


   Understanding a Head Trader  

Any head trader in a securities operation with supervisory and/or approval responsibilities must be a registered principal, meaning they must hold all of the basic securities licenses and possess one of the following certifications:﻿



Series 4: Registered Options Principal Exam (OP)
Series 9 and 10: General Securities Sales Supervisor Examination
Series 23: General Securities Principal Exam - Sales Supervisor (GP)
Series 24: General Securities Principal Exam (GP)
Series 51: Municipal Fund Securities Limited Principal Examination
Series 53: Municipal Securities Principal Examination (MP)﻿﻿



The exact principal exams required depend on the head trader's responsibilities. In smaller firms, there may only be one or two head traders, but in large firms there can be many head traders, each in charge of a specific market. The head trader for municipal securities, for example, would have at a minimum a Series 53 license.﻿﻿﻿ Different licenses apply for futures and commodities trading operations. A registered options principal, for example, will hold a Series 4 license.﻿﻿﻿


   Head Trader Job Description  

In many environments, such as wealth management companies or money managers, a head trader may report to a chief investment officer and a chief operating officer and will have a key role in fulfilling and executing individual trade requests. Head traders may also be responsible for creating and maintaining relationships with external brokers and custodians. A head trader should be among the most knowledgeable individuals at a firm regarding the markets and trading architecture/environment. Some specific head trader job responsibilities may include:



Managing trades from inception to post-trade analysis, including building trades, pre-trade analysis, execution, and settlement.Ensuring compliance with regulations and that best execution policies are adhered to.Designing trade architecture, trading policies and procedures, as well as broker evaluation and trading record keeping.Assisting portfolio managers with rebalancing and asset allocation tasks.


   Head Trader Job Evolution  

As rapidly changing regulations alter the day-to-day responsibilities of head traders, their role has shifted away from actively trading and toward more of a compliance and supervisory role. In Europe in particular, the MiFID II regulations are shifting head traders' daily priorities away from trading and toward market structure and regulation changes rather than keeping abreast of what the markets are doing.﻿﻿﻿ While being a seasoned trading expert is essential to becoming a head trader, the role now may allow for only a small amount of time actually trading securities.


   Example of Head Trader Order Execution  

Let's say the head trader of a mid-sized hedge fund is given a stock order from the portfolio manager. The order is to buy 100,000 shares of ABC stock "best way." Because the head trader knows that ABC is a thinly traded stock and typically trades 150,000 a day on average, they decide to put 50,000 shares to buy in a dark pool in order to not impact the stock price. From here, they may also look at dealer indications of interest in the ticker to see if there is a natural seller available. This transaction would be a cross trade.



Because the head trader is familiar with how ABC stock trades, they know that it is not the best idea to work the order in the machines because the order size is too large. Knowing this information is critical to best execution and comes with years of experience.
What Is a Headhunter?  

A headhunter is a company or individual that provides employment recruiting services on behalf of the employer. Headhunters are hired by firms to find talent and to locate individuals who meet specific job requirements.



Headhunters may also be referred to as executive recruiters and the function they perform is often called executive search. Headhunters may have a pool of candidates for specific positions or may act aggressively to find talent by looking at competitors' employees. Employers tend to enlist headhunters when there is a sense of urgency and they are unable to find the right person to fill a role on their own.





Key Takeaways

A headhunter, or executive recruiter, is an individual or company hired by an employer to recruit talent for an open role.Headhunters are often paid on contingency and typically earn commission only when they are successful in placing a candidate in a job. A good headhunter won't ask you about your current or past salary, so it's important to address the salary range that you are seeking. 


   Understanding Headhunters  

Finding and recruiting job candidates is often performed by hiring managers, human resources personnel, or internal recruitment specialists. But in some cases, employment agencies or executive search firms may be employed. Third parties working on behalf of a hiring company are colloquially referred to as headhunters.



A headhunter is retained to fill jobs that require specific or high-level skills or offer high pay. Headhunters working on behalf of a firm often scour international organizations for top talent. In addition, some individuals may contact a headhunter to provide a résumé or curriculum vitae (CV) or to apply for a position for which the headhunter is seeking talent. Headhunting is supported on many levels by internet technologies, including social media and online job boards.


   How Headhunters Are Paid  

Headhunters typically only make money when they are successful in placing a candidate in a job. Independent, third-party recruiters are often paid on contingency, meaning they do not get paid unless their candidate is hired. The typical fee is 20% to 30% of a new hire's total first-year salary. As headhunters work for the employer, they have the incentive to please them rather than the candidate.



There is no licensing necessary to become a headhunter or recruiter, so anyone can become one. Less-reputable recruiters often compete with professional ones that possess large networks of clients and candidates. They may operate in a similar way, such as an unsolicited email, call, or LinkedIn request.


   What Should You Look for in a Headhunter?  

The quality and helpfulness of headhunters vary. Here are some characteristics to look for and avoid:



A good headhunter will contact you knowing ahead of time that you are a good fit for a role based on your skills and experience.If a headhunter asks for your past or current salary, this is a red flag. Rather, they should tell you the salary range of the opportunity they are calling about and then ask you whether it is a good fit.An unprepared headhunter will not have done proper homework on your background and may try to interview you on the fly once you are on the phone.Quality headhunters are easy to reach and communicate with, and they conduct themselves professionally. It is a bad sign if a headhunter talks fast, is rude, makes too many demands, is hard to reach, or neglects to respond to messages.A good head hunter will want to stay in touch especially if you're a good candidate and will want to keep you in their network of potential candidates for openings.
What Are Headline Earnings?  

Headline earnings refer to a method of reporting corporate earnings based entirely on operational, trading, and capital investment activities achieved during the previous period. Excluded from the headline earnings figure are profits or losses associated with the sale or termination of discontinued operations, fixed assets or related businesses, or from any permanent devaluation or write-off of their values.





Key Takeaways

Headline earnings report a company's income from operations, trading, and investments only.Headline earnings therefore exclude certain one-time or exceptional items such as write-offs.Analysts look to headline earnings as a basis for how a company is operating at its business as usual capacity.


   Understanding Headline Earnings  

Headline earnings provide a stringent measurement tool to isolate core operational profitability. By excluding asset sales, discontinued operations, restructuring charges and write-downs, the headline earnings number shows the profitability of a company's core business. Because headline earnings make these exclusions, it provides a better picture of a how company operates on an ongoing basis, where one-time charges or special items that are unlikely to occur again can give an unfair impression of true operations. At the same time, these items certainly do matter for analysts, especially if they end up recurring or greatly impacting future prospects.



Some companies report headline earnings per share (EPS) in addition to required EPS figures that take into account other items. Because it does not account for these items, headline earnings are considered to be non-GAAP and must be reconciled with net income if presented in shareholder reports, in accordance with SEC regulations.﻿﻿



This basis for measuring headline earnings per share was implemented in 1993 by the former Institute of Investment Management and Research (IIMR) in the United Kingdom.﻿﻿ IIMR developed this method as a way to better analyze a company's P&L statement with a picture that would better represent a firm's operations during "business as usual," which could be clouded by a one-time charge or write-off.


   Criticism of Headline Earnings  

A company's quality of earnings is important, so investors need to consider the validity of headline earnings and the exclusions that it makes on a case-by-case basis in order to avoid being misled or misinformed. For instance, research has shown that headline figures are more likely to exclude losses than gains. GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) earnings now significantly trail non-GAAP earnings, as companies become accustomed to including "one-time" adjustments or charges, which become problematic when they start to occur every quarter.



For example, Merck (MRK) turned a loss of $0.02 per share under GAAP standards into an "adjusted" headline EPS of $1.11 a share in the third quarter of 2017—a 5,650% difference.﻿﻿
What Is the Headline Effect?  

The headline effect refers to the effect that negative news in the popular press has on a corporation or an economy. Many economists believe that negative news headlines make consumers more reluctant to spend money.





Key Takeaways

The headline effect refers to the observation that negative news tends to have a proportionally more pronounced effect on prices and markets than positive news. Potential explanations for the headline effect include media sensationalism, risk and loss aversion, and prudential institutional bias. Examples of the headline effect include the change in consumer discretionary spending resulting from gasoline price changes and the impact of the Greek debt crisis on the value of the euro. 


   Understanding the Headline Effect  
  Extension of the Headline Effect  

Whether it is justified or not, the investing public's reaction to a headline can be very dramatic and out of proportion when compared with the reaction to good news in the headlines. Therefore, when a government agency or central bank releases an unfavorable economic report, traders, investors, and members of the investing public might disproportionately react to that bad news by converting, selling, or shorting funds away from any stocks, currencies, or other investments that have been affected. While this market reaction is, to some extent, natural and expected, the headline effect can speed up and worsen the severity of the market reaction by bringing bad news to the forefront of the trading public's mind.


  Possible Causes of the Headline Effect  

Economists and market observers have put forth several possible explanations for the headline effect. Most likely, a combination of different factors are in play, but here are a few possibilities. First, media sensationalism may be responsible for the headline effect. The media know that bad news sells and that attention-grabbing headlines generate more clicks and page views, so negative news tends to be featured and promoted more heavily. People will naturally pay more attention and react more strongly to stories that are run for widely, frequently, or prominently by news outlets. 



Second, risk aversion and loss aversion may also be responsible for the headline effect. Most people tend to weight potential dangers, risks, and losses more heavily in their decision-making. This can easily mean that people will be more likely to act on negative news than positive news.



Finally, institutional factors that bias the behavior of businesses and fiduciaries toward caution may also be responsible for the headline effect. These include things like the basic accounting principle of conservatism or the prudential rules that certain institutional funds such as pensions are required to follow. 


   Example of the Headline Effect  

An example of a headline effect is the media's extensive coverage of the impact of rising gas prices on consumers. Some economists believe that the more attention that is paid to small increases in the price of gasoline, the more likely it is that consumers will be more cautious about spending their discretionary dollars. The headline effect can be regarded as the difference between decreases in discretionary spending that are rationally justifiable based on economic fundamentals and those that occur purely as a result of news coverage.



Another example of the headline effect is the effect of the Greek debt crisis on the value of the euro. The economic crisis in Greece was credited with weakening the euro significantly, despite the fact that the Greek economy accounted for only 2% of the eurozone’s overall economic productivity. The public’s reaction to bad news about the Greek economy affected not only the eurozone but also countries outside the eurozone, such as the United Kingdom, that rely heavily on trade with the eurozone to support their own economies. Some have said that the headline effect could be as drastic as undermining the future of the euro and the European Union itself.
What Is Headline Inflation?  

Headline inflation is the raw inflation figure reported through the Consumer Price Index (CPI) that is released monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). The CPI calculates the cost to purchase a fixed basket of goods to determine how much inflation is occurring in the broad economy. The CPI uses a base year and indexes the current year's prices, according to the base year's values.





Key Takeaways

Headline inflation is the raw inflation figure reported through the Consumer Price Index (CPI).The CPI determines inflation by calculating the prices on a fixed basket of goods.Core inflation removes the CPI components that can exhibit large amounts of volatility from month to month. 


   Headline Inflation Explained  

As it includes all aspects within an economy that experience inflation, headline inflation is not adjusted to remove highly volatile figures, including those that can shift regardless of economic conditions. Headline inflation is often closely related to shifts in the cost of living, which provides useful information to consumers within the marketplace.



The headline figure is not adjusted for seasonality or for the often-volatile elements of food and energy prices, which are removed in the core CPI. Headline inflation is usually quoted on an annualized basis, meaning that a monthly headline figure of 4% inflation equates to a monthly rate that, if repeated for 12 months, would create 4% inflation for the year. Comparisons of headline inflation are typically made on a year-over-year basis, also known as top-line inflation.


   Negatives of Rising Inflation  

Inflation is a threat to long-term investors because it erodes the value of future dollars, can stifle economic growth, and can cause a rise in prevailing interest rates. While headline inflation tends to get the most attention in the media, core inflation is often considered the more valuable metric to follow. Both headline and core results are followed closely by investors, and are also used by economists and central banking figures to set economic growth forecasts and monetary policy.


   Core Inflation  

Core inflation removes the CPI components that can exhibit large amounts of volatility from month to month, which can cause unwanted distortion to the headline figure. The most commonly removed factors are those relating to the costs of food and energy. Food prices can be affected by factors outside of those attributed to the economy, such as environmental shifts that cause issues in the growth of crops. Energy costs, such as oil production, can be affected by forces outside of traditional supply and demand, such as political dissent.



From 1957 till 2018, the average core inflation rate in the United States was listed as 3.64%. The all-time high was 13.60%, which occurred in June 1980. The lowest rate was recorded in May 1957 with an inflation rate of 0%. As of 2018, the Federal Reserve’s goal rate for core inflation is 2%.




What is a central bank?
A central bank is a financial institution given privileged control over the production and distribution of money and credit for a nation or a group of nations. In modern economies, the central bank is usually responsible for the formulation of monetary policy and the regulation of member banks. Central banks are inherently non-market-based or even anti-competitive institutions. Although some are nationalized, many central banks are not government agencies, and so are often touted as being politically independent. However, even if a central bank is not legally owned by the government, its privileges are established and protected by law. The critical feature of a central bank—distinguishing it from other banks—is its legal monopoly status, which gives it the privilege to issue banknotes and cash. Private commercial banks are only permitted to issue demand liabilities, such as checking deposits.




What is the cost of living?
The cost of living is the amount of money needed to cover basic expenses such as housing, food, taxes, and healthcare in a certain place and time period. The cost of living is often used to compare how expensive it is to live in one city versus another, and it is tied to wages. If expenses are higher in a city, such as New York, for example, salary levels must be higher so that people can afford to live in that city.




What is the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS)?
The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) is a federal agency that collects and disseminates various data about the U.S. economy and labor market. Its reports include the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and the Producer Price Index (PPI), both of which are considered to be important measures of inflation.
What Is Headline Risk?  

Headline risk is the possibility that a news story will adversely affect the price of an investment, such as a stock or commodity. Headline risk can also impact the performance of a specific sector or the entire stock market.





Key Takeaways

Headline risk is that a news story will adversely affect a stock's price, where the timing and content of the story is unknown in advance.Headline risk most often affects individual companies, but can also bear down on sectors or the entire market.Headline risk can be mitigated through public relations (PR) campaigns and a long-term strategy from investors that disregards short-term fluctuations triggered by headlines.


   Understanding Headline Risk  

Headline risk is the risk that a news headline or story can influence the price of a stock, sector, or broader market. Suppose that a pharmaceutical company releases a new drug called “Cholestride” that dramatically reduces a person’s cholesterol levels. In response to the drug, a competitor organizes for a study that finds a possible but not conclusive link between the new cholesterol medication and liver damage. This creates a headline risk for Cholestride's makers that must be managed to prevent it from having a material impact on the company's stock price.



Headlines generated by newspapers, television, or online - including social media posts - can moves stock prices. Note that prices can move, even if the story is incorrect or misleading, although in such cases the prices will tend to snap back. Headlines can also create positive movements, such as the approval of a new drug by the FDA or some other breakthrough.



Headline risk can be mitigated through effective public relations (PR) campaigns. Successful public relations efforts can promote positive images of a company that can help counteract any negative stories as well as provide swift damage control if such a story is released.


   Managing Headline Risk  

Investors cannot control or manage headline risk directly unless they are able to manipulate the flow of information before it becomes public. Such efforts could potentially be considered to include unethical behavior depending on the circumstances and the information involved.



But investor sentiment can be quite capricious and even a trivial headline could trigger behaviors that will negatively affect asset prices. Headline risk is really nothing more than price risk. As such, it is best managed through diversification and allocation rules in a portfolio, or by trading position rules that employ stop-loss strategies.


   Example of Sector-Specific Headline Risk  

In the aftermath of the 2007–2010 subprime lending crisis, mortgage lenders such as Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup faced significant headline risk from other financial institutions collapsing or coming under severe financial pressure.



After the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the bailout of prominent financial institutions including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 2008, investors had little confidence in the stability of the financial system, and any negative headline relating to the financial sector had the potential to spark a stock selloff in financial stocks.
What Is a Heads of Agreement?  

A "heads of" agreement is a non-binding document that outlines the basic terms of a tentative partnership agreement or transaction. Also known as a "heads of terms," or "letter of intent," a heads of agreement marks the first step on the path to a full legally binding agreement or contract and a guideline for the roles and responsibilities of the parties involved in a potential partnership before any binding documents are drawn up. Such a document is commonly used in commercial transactions, such as the purchase of a business.



As a business term, "heads of agreement" is most commonly used in Australia, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom.





Key Takeaways

A "head of" agreement is an initial, non-binding document that establishes the basic framework for a partnership or transaction.The agreement is the first step toward creating a formal deal, and due to its tentative nature can often be renegotiated or reneged.While heads of agreements are considered non-binding, certain aspects, such as nondisclosure clauses, may not be.


   Understanding a Heads of Agreements  

A heads of agreement document is only meant to serve as an introductory agreement to the basic terms of a transaction or partnership. It happens during the pre-contractual stage of negotiations. By design, a heads of agreement will not be comprehensive enough to cover all the necessary details involved in a binding formal agreement. But its lack of detail is also its strength; the parties are less likely to find something they do not agree on.



Once both parties come to a broad consensus on a partnership or transaction and have signed a heads of agreement document, the next step entails involving attorneys and accountants to iron out the details. Such details may include a number of pre-conditions that must be satisfied before a final agreement is made. The step after that is the signing of a binding contract, though a heads of agreement may be terminated at any time by either party with some caveats.


  Heads of Agreement Purposes  

A heads of agreement can provide both parties in a transaction or partnership the following:



Evidence for both parties that a deal is likely so neither party wastes time or money
Guidelines for negotiating a formal agreement
A running list of agreed-to terms
Proof to lenders or investors that both parties are committed to a formal agreement
A tool and guidelines for addressing confidentiality, due diligence, intellectual property, exclusivity, as well as other pre-contractual issues


   Heads of Agreement: Binding or Not?  

Heads of agreement can be binding or non-binding, depending on the language used, though they are not generally binding. That said, some aspects, such as intellectual property, exclusivity, confidentiality, and non-solicitation provisions, tend to be binding, though only if the time-frames are reasonable. If a heads of agreement document is written so that it is binding it can present problems.



Since most aspects of a heads of agreement are not binding, the remedies for non-compliance by either party are few. In fact, they only apply to the legally binding terms listed above. If there is a breach of those binding terms by one party, the other may file for an injunction, equitable relief, damages or specific performance.
What Is Health Insurance?  

Health insurance is a contract between a company and a consumer. The company agrees to pay all or some of the insured person's healthcare costs in return for payment of a monthly premium.



The contract is usually a one-year agreement, during which the insurer will be responsible for paying specific expenses related to illness, injury, pregnancy, or preventative care.



Health insurance agreements in the U.S. generally come with exceptions to coverage including:



A deductible that requires the consumer to pay certain healthcare costs "out-of-pocket" up to a maximum amount before the company coverage beginsOne or more co-payments that require the consumer to pay a set share of the cost for specific services or procedures





Key Takeaways

Health insurance pays most medical and surgical expenses and preventative care costs incurred by the insured person in return for a monthly premium payment.Generally, the higher the monthly premium is the lower the out-of-pocket costs are to the insured.Virtually all insurance plans have deductibles and co-pays but these out-of-pocket expenses are now capped by federal law.Since 2010, the Affordable Care Act has prohibited insurance companies from denying coverage to patients with preexisting conditions and has allowed children to remain on their parents' insurance plan until they reach the age of 26.Medicare, Medicaid, and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) are federal health insurance plans that extend coverage to older, disabled, and low-income people.


   How Health Insurance Works  

In the United States, health insurance is tricky to navigate. It is a business with a number of regional and national competitors whose coverage, pricing, and availability vary from state to state and even by county.



About half of the population has health insurance coverage as an employment benefit, with premiums partially covered by the employer. The cost to the employer is tax-deductible to the payer, and the benefits to the employee are tax-free, with certain exceptions for S corporation employees.



Self-employed people, freelancers, and gig workers can buy insurance directly on their own. The Affordable Care Act of 2010, commonly called Obamacare, mandated the creation of a national database, called HealthCare.gov, which allows individuals to search for standard plans from private insurers that are available where they live. The costs of the coverage are subsidized for taxpayers whose incomes are between 100% and 400% of the federal poverty threshold.



Some, but not all, states created their own versions of HealthCare.gov that are tailored to their residents.



People over the age of 65 and those with disabilities, End-Stage Renal Disease, or ALS qualify to receive federally-subsidized care through Medicare, while families whose incomes are near the poverty level are eligible for subsidized Medicaid coverage.


   Types of Health Insurance  

Health insurance can be tricky to navigate in the U.S.



So-called managed care insurance plans require policyholders to get their care from a network of designated healthcare providers. If patients seek care outside the network, they must pay a higher percentage of the cost. The insurer may even refuse payment outright for services obtained out of network.



Many managed care plans—for example, health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and point-of-service plans (POS)—require patients to choose a primary care physician who oversees the patient's care, makes recommendations about treatment, and provides referrals for medical specialists.



Preferred-provider organizations (PPOs), by contrast, don't require referrals but do set lower rates for using in-network practitioners and services.



Insurance companies may deny coverage for certain services that were obtained without preauthorization. They may refuse payment for name-brand drugs if a generic version or comparable medication is available at a lower cost.



All these rules should be stated in the material provided by the insurance company. It's worth checking with the company directly before incurring a major expense.


   What Are Copays, Deductibles, and Coinsurance?  

Most health insurance plans require their customers to pick up some of the costs of their coverage in various ways:



The deductible is the amount that the customer must pay out of pocket every year before the insurer begins to meet the costs. This is now capped by federal law.
Copays are set fees that subscribers must pay for specific services such as doctor visits and prescription drugs even after the deductible is met.
Coinsurance is the percentage of healthcare costs that the insured must pay even after they've met the deductible (but only until they reach the out-of-pocket maximum for the year).



Insurance plans with higher out-of-pocket costs generally have smaller monthly premiums. When shopping for plans, weigh the benefit of lower monthly payments against the potential risk of large out-of-pocket expenses in the case of a major illness or accident.





Tip

If you're self-employed, you may be able to deduct up to 100% of health insurance premiums you pay out of pocket.


   High-Deductible Health Plans (HDHP)  

One increasingly popular type of health insurance is the high-deductible health plan (HDHP). These plans have higher deductibles and lower monthly premiums. Their users are the only ones eligible to open a Health Savings Account (HSA) that has substantial federal tax benefits.



For 2023, the IRS defines a high-deductible health plan as one that has deductibles of at least $1,500 for an individual or $3,000 for a family. Total out-of-pocket maximums are $7,500 for an individual and $15,000 for a family.



For 2024, a high-deductible health plan is one that has deductibles of at least $1,600 for an individual or $3,100 for a family. Total out-of-pocket maximums are $8,050 for an individual and $16,100 for a family.



High-deductible health plans offer a unique advantage in that if you have one, you're permitted to open—and contribute pretax income to—a health savings account, which can be used to pay for qualified medical expenses. These plans offer a triple tax benefit in that:



Contributions are tax-deductibleContributions grow on a tax-deferred basisQualified withdrawals for healthcare expenses are tax-free





Note

You can withdraw money from an HSA after age 65 for any reason with no tax penalty, but you will pay income tax on the withdrawal if the money is not used for qualified medical expenses.


   Federal Health Insurance Plans  

Not all health insurance in the US is provided by private companies. Medicare, Medicaid, and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) are federal health insurance plans that extend coverage to older, disabled, and low-income people.


  The Affordable Care Act (ACA)  

In 2010, President Barack Obama signed the Affordable Care Act (ACA) into law. In participating states, the act expanded Medicaid, a government program that provides medical care for individuals with low incomes.



The Affordable Care Act has prohibited insurance companies from denying coverage to patients with preexisting conditions and has allowed children to remain on their parents' insurance plan until they reach the age of 26.



In addition to these changes, the ACA established the federal Health Insurance Marketplace. It also prohibits insurance companies from denying coverage to patients with preexisting conditions and allows children to remain on their parents' insurance plan until they reach age 26.



The Marketplace helps individuals and businesses shop for quality insurance plans at affordable rates. Insurance available through the ACA Marketplace is required to cover 10 essential health benefits.



Through the HealthCare.gov website, shoppers can find the Marketplace in their state, if it has one.



Under the ACA, tax-payers were required to carry medical insurance that meets federally designated minimum standards or face a tax penalty, but the Tax Cuts and Job Act removed that penalty after December 31, 2018.



A Supreme Court ruling in 2012 struck down an ACA provision that required states to expand Medicaid eligibility as a condition for receiving federal Medicaid funding, and a number of states chose to refuse to expand their Medicaid programs.



As of 2023, an estimated 40 million people have health coverage through the Affordable Care Act.


  Medicare and CHIP  

Two public health insurance plans, Medicare and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), provide subsidized coverage for disabled individuals and children. Medicare, which is available to people age 65 or older, also serves people with certain disabilities, End-Stage Renal Disease, and ALS. The CHIP plan provides health coverage for low-income children under the age of 19.





Important

Medicaid can help older seniors to pay for long-term care in a nursing home, but Medicare does not. This is why Medicare recipients often pay for supplemental coverage through a private insurer.




What Is Health Insurance and Why Do You Need It?
Health insurance is an agreement in which an insurance company agrees to pay for some or all of your medical expenses in exchange for a monthly premium payment.If you're young, healthy, and lucky, the monthly premium may exceed the costs of your insurance.If you (or someone in your family) have a recurring condition that needs treatment or develop one, are injured in an accident, or develop a disease, you may well incur medical bills that you cannot possibly pay.




Who Needs Health Insurance?
The simple answer is everyone. Health insurance offsets the costs of minor medical issues and major ones, including surgeries and treatment for life-threatening ailments and debilitating conditions.




How Do You Get Health Insurance?
If your employer offers health insurance as part of an employee benefits package, you will be covered, although you will probably have to pay a portion of the costs.If you are self-employed, you can purchase health insurance through a federal or state Health Insurance Marketplace.People over the age of 65 qualify for federal Medicare insurance, although many of them supplement its coverage.Low-income individuals and families qualify for subsidized coverage through the federal Medicaid or Medicare programs.




How Much Does Health Insurance Cost?
The cost of health insurance varies widely based on the scope of coverage, the type of plan you have, the deductible, and your age when you sign up. Copays and coinsurance also add to your expenses.You can get a good sense of the costs of plans by looking at the four levels of coverage offered by the federal Health Insurance Marketplace. It categorizes plans as bronze, silver, gold, or platinum, with each category priced according to the level of coverage provided and their corresponding costs to the user.


   The Bottom Line  

Unlike many countries, the U.S. does not have a universal government health care system. Instead, it has a complicated system of subsidies and tax incentives that make health care affordable for most people most of the time.



If you are employed, you probably have health insurance that is subsidized by your employer. If you are self-employed, you can get insurance directly from a private insurer. If your income is low, you can get a subsidy for the costs. If you are elderly or disabled, you can get coverage through the federal Medicare or Medicaid programs.
What Is the ACA Health Insurance Marketplace?  

The Health Insurance Marketplace is a platform that offers insurance plans to individuals, families, and small businesses. The Affordable Care Act (ACA) established the Marketplace as a means to extend health insurance coverage to millions of uninsured Americans. Many states offer their own marketplaces, while the federal government manages an exchange open to residents of other states.





Key Takeaways

The Health Insurance Marketplace is a gateway for individuals, families, and small businesses to access health insurance.It was created following the passage of the Affordable Care Act.The Marketplace is available to those who don't have access to health insurance through employer-sponsored plans.The Marketplace enables various insurers to compete for customers by offering a variety of plans based on cost and need.A number of states have marketplaces and the federal government has an exchange.


   Understanding the ACA Health Insurance Marketplace  

The Health Insurance Marketplace is a key element of the Affordable Care Act, a healthcare reform signed into law by President Barack Obama in 2010 also known as Obamacare. The law instructed states to set up their own exchanges where individuals or families without employer-sponsored coverage could compare plans. Many states, however, have chosen not to establish a marketplace and have joined the federal exchange.



The Marketplace facilitates competition among private insurers in a central location where people who do not have access to employer-sponsored insurance can find a suitable plan. Individuals can compare and apply for plans via the Marketplace during the open enrollment period.



Typically, this period takes place in November and December of the year prior to the year in which the coverage will take effect. Consumers can apply for a special enrollment period in the case of a qualifying event such as the birth of a child, marriage, or the loss of another insurance plan.



The Marketplace categorizes plans into four tiers: bronze, silver, gold, and platinum, in the order of least to greatest coverage. The highest tier, platinum, includes plans that cover approximately 90% of health expenses, but is also the most costly.






Lower-income individuals and families can qualify for extra savings on all the health insurance plans offered on the exchange through premium tax credits and cost-sharing reductions.


   ACA Health Insurance Marketplace Requirements  

The Health Insurance Marketplace has requirements for individuals and families who use it, as well as for the insurance companies that offer coverage. To be eligible to buy coverage offered on the Marketplace, you must live in the United States and be a U.S. citizen or national. If you are covered by Medicare, you’re not eligible.



While the plans that insurers offer on the Marketplace can vary widely, the ACA requires that they must each satisfy 10 basic requirements or essential health benefits (EHBs).



Required benefits include:



Ambulatory patient servicesEmergency servicesHospitalizationLaboratory servicesMental health and substance use disorder servicesPregnancy, maternity, and newborn carePrescription medicationsPreventive and wellness services and chronic disease managementPediatric servicesRehabilitative and habilitative services






The ACA does not require large, employer-sponsored insurance plans to cover any of the EHBs. Instead, the writers of the law felt that the Marketplace would apply competitive pressure that would force employer plans to comply with these basic mandates.


   Special Considerations  

Changes have been made to the ACA that have addressed some of the objections raised by its opponents, while still keeping the Marketplace open. For example, as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, in Dec. 2017 Congress removed a penalty individuals had to pay for not having health insurance, a requirement that many Republicans had opposed.



President Biden, who had helped President Obama pass the Affordable Care Act, enacted more changes. Eight days after he took office, he signed an executive order focused on strengthening the ACA, as well as Medicaid.



Then, on Aug. 16, 2022, Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 to extend ACA insurance premium subsidies to include more middle-class families for three years through 2025.
What Is the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)?  

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) is an act created by the U.S. Congress in 1996 that amends both the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and the Public Health Service Act (PHSA). HIPAA was enacted in an effort to protect individuals covered by health insurance and to set standards for the storage and privacy of personal medical data.





Key Takeaways

HIPAA law impacts policies, technology, and record-keeping at medical facilities, health insurance companies, HMOs, and healthcare billing services. Noncompliance with HIPAA standards and best practices is against the law.The HITECH Act was created in 2009 to expand HIPAA privacy and security protections for patients.


   How the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Works  

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) ensures that individual health-care plans are accessible, portable and renewable, and it sets the standards and the methods for how medical data is shared across the U.S. health system in order to prevent fraud. It preempts state law (unless the state's regulations are more stringent).



Since 1996, HIPAA has been modified to include processes for safely storing and sharing patient medical information electronically. It also includes administrative simplification provisions, which are aimed at increasing efficiency and reducing administrative costs by establishing national standards.



In 2009, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) broadened HIPAA privacy and security protections. The HITECH Act was enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 as a way of promoting the use of health information technology. A portion of the HITECH Act addresses privacy and security concerns.


   The Future of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)  

In 2018, Bloomberg Law reported on the privacy risks that come from digital healthcare data and the likelihood of updated federal laws in the near future. In an age of fitness-tracking apps and GPS-tracked, shareable data on everything from an individual’s daily step count to their average heart-rate, medications, allergies, and even menstrual cycles, there are new challenges for upholding standards in storing and protecting personal medical data.



In a video interview, Nan Halstead, health privacy and security attorney with Reed Smith LLP, said that future laws are unlikely to expand on HIPAA. Rather, they will use HIPAA's framework as a model to create new laws governing the digital sector. Although no such federal laws have yet been passed, states can pass laws that fill the gap in the meantime. Moreover, companies tracking consumer data are currently also subject to supervision by regulating bodies like the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).
What Is a Health Maintenance Organization (HMO)?  

An individual who needs to secure health insurance may find a variety of insurance providers with unique features. One type of insurance provider that is popular on the Health Insurance Marketplace is a health maintenance organization (HMO), an insurance structure that provides coverage through a network of physicians.



There are several key differences between HMO plans and preferred provider organization (PPO) plans. With an HMO plan, your primary care physician (PCP) will refer you to specialists, and you must stay within a network of providers to receive coverage. On the other hand, HMO plans typically have lower premiums than PPO plans.





Key Takeaways

A health maintenance organization (HMO) is a network or organization that provides health insurance coverage for a monthly or annual fee.An HMO is made up of a group of medical insurance providers that limit coverage to medical care provided through doctors and other providers who are under contract with the HMO.These contracts allow for premiums to be lower—since the healthcare providers have the advantage of having patients directed to them—but they also add additional restrictions to HMO members.HMO plans require that participants first receive medical care services from an assigned provider known as the primary care physician (PCP).Preferred provider organizations (PPOs) and point-of-service (POS) plans are two types of healthcare plans that are alternatives to HMOs.With an HMO plan, you must always see your PCP first, who will then refer you to an in-network specialist. With a PPO plan, you can see a specialist without a referral.With an HMO plan, you must stay within your network of providers to receive coverage. Under a PPO plan, patients still have a network of providers, but they aren’t restricted to seeing just those physicians.


   How a Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) Works  

HMOs provide health insurance coverage for a monthly or annual fee. An HMO limits member coverage to medical care provided through a network of doctors and other healthcare providers who are under contract with the HMO. These contracts allow for premiums to be lower than for traditional health insurance—since the healthcare providers have the advantage of having patients directed to them. However, they also add additional restrictions to the HMO’s members.



When deciding whether to choose an HMO plan, you should take into consideration the cost of premiums, out-of-pocket costs, any requirements you may have for specialized medical care, and whether it’s important to you to have your own primary care physician (PCP).



An HMO is an organized public or private entity that provides basic and supplemental health services to its subscribers. The organization secures its network of health providers by entering into contracts with PCPs, clinical facilities, and specialists. The medical entities that enter into contracts with the HMO are paid an agreed-upon fee to offer a range of services to the HMO’s subscribers. The agreed payment allows an HMO to offer lower premiums than other types of health insurance plans while retaining a high quality of care from its network.



The HMO as it exists today was established under the Health Maintenance Organization Act of 1973. Signed by then-President Richard Nixon, the law clarified the definition of HMOs as “a public or private entity organized to provide basic and supplemental health services to its members.” The law further requires that plans provide insured individuals with basic healthcare in exchange for regular, fixed premiums that are established “under a community rating system.”


  Rules for HMO Subscribers  

HMO subscribers pay a monthly or annual premium to access medical services in the organization’s network of providers, but they are limited to receiving their care and services from doctors within the HMO network. However, some out-of-network services, including emergency care and dialysis, can be covered under the HMO.



Those who are insured under an HMO may have to live or work in the plan’s network area to be eligible for coverage. In cases where a subscriber receives urgent care while out of the HMO network region, the HMO may cover the expenses. But HMO subscribers who receive nonemergency, out-of-network care have to pay for it out of pocket.



In addition to low premiums, there are typically low or no deductibles with an HMO. Instead, the organization charges a co-pay for each clinical visit, test, or prescription. Co-pays in HMOs are typically low—usually, $5, $10, or $20 per service—thereby minimizing out-of-pocket expenses and making HMO plans affordable for families and employers.


  Role of the Primary Care Physician (PCP)  

The insured party must choose a PCP from the network of local healthcare providers under an HMO plan. A PCP is typically an individual’s first point of contact for all health-related issues. This means that an insured person cannot see a specialist without first receiving a referral from their PCP.



However certain specialized services may not require a referral. For example, screening mammograms in most cases will not require a doctor’s referral. Specialists to whom PCPs typically refer insured members are within the HMO coverage, so their services are covered under the HMO plan after co-pays are made. If a PCP leaves the network, subscribers are notified and are required to choose another PCP from within the HMO plan.


  HMO Regulation  

HMOs are regulated by both states and the federal government. The McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945 established that states regulate the insurance industry, and no federal law overrides state regulation unless it explicitly does so. As such, regulation of health insurance is left largely to the states, though legislation—such as the HMO Act of 1973 and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, among other laws—can bring some aspects of the health insurance business under the purview of the federal government.



That said, the federal government does maintain some oversight of HMOs. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act created the Federal Insurance Office (FIO), which can monitor all aspects of the insurance industry. Similarly, the Affordable Care Act of 2010 created an agency charged with overseeing the implementation of the act's provisions, called the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight (CCIIO).


   HMO vs. Preferred Provider Organization (PPO)  

A preferred provider organization (PPO) is a medical care plan in which health professionals and facilities provide services to subscribed clients at reduced rates. PPO medical and healthcare providers are called preferred providers.



PPO participants are free to use the services of any provider within their network. Out-of-network care is available, but it costs more to the insured. In contrast to PPO plans, HMO plans require that participants receive healthcare services from an assigned provider. PPO plans usually have deductibles, while HMO plans usually do not.



Both programs allow for specialist services. However, the designated PCP must provide a referral to a specialist under an HMO plan. PPO plans are the oldest and—due to their flexibility and relatively low out-of-pocket costs—have been the most popular managed healthcare plans. That has been changing, however, as plans have reduced the size of their provider networks and taken other steps to control costs.


   HMO vs. Point-of-Service (POS)  

A point-of-service (POS) plan is like an HMO plan in that it requires a policyholder to choose an in-network PCP and get referrals from that doctor if they want the plan to cover a specialist’s services. A POS plan is also like a PPO plan in that it still provides coverage for out-of-network services, but the policyholder has to pay more for those services than if they used in-network providers.



However, a POS plan will pay more toward an out-of-network service if the policyholder gets a referral from their PCP than if they don’t secure a referral. The premiums for a POS plan fall between the lower premiums offered by an HMO and the higher premiums of a PPO.



POS plans require the policyholder to make co-pays, but in-network co-pays are often just $10 to $25 per appointment. POS plans also do not have deductibles for in-network services, which is a significant advantage over PPOs.



Also, POS plans offer nationwide coverage, which benefits patients who travel frequently. A disadvantage is that out-of-network deductibles tend to be high for POS plans, so patients who use out-of-network services will pay the full cost of care out of pocket until they reach the plan’s deductible. However, a patient who never uses a POS plan’s out-of-network services probably would be better off with an HMO because of its lower premiums.






If you don’t travel frequently, you’ll be better off with an HMO plan than a POS plan because of the lower costs.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of HMOs  

It’s important to weigh the advantages and disadvantages of HMO plans before you choose a plan, just as you would with any other option. We’ve listed some of the most common pros and cons of the program below.


  Advantages of HMOs  

The first and most obvious advantage of participating in an HMO is the low cost. You’ll pay fixed premiums on a monthly or annual basis that are lower than traditional forms of health insurance. These plans tend to come with low or no deductibles, and your co-pays are generally lower than other plans. Your out-of-pocket costs will also be lower for your prescription. Billing also tends to be less complicated.



There’s also a very good likelihood that you’ll have to deal with the insurer itself. That’s because you have a PCP who you choose and who is responsible for managing your treatment and care. This professional will also advocate for services on your behalf. This includes making referrals for specialty services for you.



The quality of care is generally higher with an HMO plan. That is because patients are encouraged to get annual physicals and seek out treatment early.


  Disadvantages of HMOs  

If you’re paying for an HMO, then you’re restricted on how you can use the plan. You’ll have to designate a doctor, who will be responsible for your healthcare needs, including your primary care and referrals. However, this doctor must be part of the network. This means that you are responsible for any costs incurred if you see someone out of the network, even if there’s no contracted doctor in your area.



You’ll need referrals for any specialists if you want your HMO to pay for any visits. If you need to visit a rheumatologist or a dermatologist, for example, your PCP must make a referral before you can see one for the plan to pay for your visit. If not, you’re responsible for the entire cost.



There are very specific conditions that you must meet for certain medical claims, such as emergencies. For instance, there are usually very strict definitions of what constitutes an emergency. If your condition doesn’t fit the criteria, then the HMO plan won’t pay.





Pros

Lower out-of-pocket costs, including lower premiums, low or no deductibles, and low co-pays.
Your primary care physician will direct your treatment and advocate on your behalf.
Higher quality of care.



Cons

Medical professionals must be part of the plan’s network.
You can’t visit a specialist without a referral from your family doctor.
Emergencies must meet certain conditions before the plan pays.







What is health maintenance organization (HMO) insurance?
Health maintenance organization (HMO) insurance provides covered individuals with health insurance in exchange for monthly or annual fees. People pay lower premiums than those with other forms of health insurance when they visit doctors and other providers who are part of the HMO’s network.




What are HMO examples?
Almost every major insurance company provides an HMO plan. For instance, Cigna and Humana provide their own versions of the HMO. Aetna offers individuals two options: the Aetna HMO and the Aetna Health Network Only plan.




What are the benefits of an HMO?
The main benefits are cost and quality of care. People who purchase HMO plans benefit from lower premiums than traditional forms of health insurance. This allows insured parties to get a higher quality of care from providers who are contracted with the organization. HMOs typically come with low or no deductibles and charge relatively low co-pays. HMO participants also don’t need referrals to get specialty services such as mammograms.




What is the difference between an HMO and health insurance?
Coverage under an HMO is generally pretty restrictive and comes at a lower cost to insured parties. Traditional health insurance, on the other hand, charges higher premiums, higher deductibles, and higher co-pays. But health insurance plans are much more flexible. People with health insurance don’t need to have a primary care physician (PCP) to outline treatment. Health insurance also pays some of the costs for out-of-network providers.




Why do HMOs have a bad reputation?
There are several restrictions for those covered under HMOs, which is why these plans have such a bad reputation. For instance, HMOs only allow insured parties to see individuals in their own network, which means that insured parties are responsible for the full amount of a visit to any doctor or specialist outside this group. The plan also may require individuals to live in a certain area, This means that someone who receives medical service out of the HMO’s network must pay for it themselves. The plans also require individuals to choose a PCP who determines the kind of treatment that patients need.


   The Bottom Line  

Health insurance is an important consideration for every individual. Choosing the right plan depends on your personal situation, including your health, finances, and quality of life. You can choose from traditional health insurance, such as the PPO, or the HMO. The HMO provides insured individuals with lower out-of-pocket costs, but more restrictive conditions, including the doctor who you see. Make sure that you weigh the benefits and disadvantages of the plan, regardless of what you choose.
What is Health Plan Categories  

Federal health plan categories refer to the four types of health insurance plans that are differentiated based on the average percentage of healthcare expenses that will be paid by the plan. In the United States, health insurance plans are offered in four actuarial levels: Bronze, Silver, Gold, and Platinum. The level defines the amount of expenses each type of plan covers.





Key Takeaways

In the U.S., health insurance plans are offered in four actuarial levels: Bronze, Silver, Gold and Platinum.Gold and Platinum plans pay more on average toward healthcare expenses, while Silver and Bronze plans pay less.Catastrophic coverage is available for people under 30 or people of any age who qualify for a hardship exemption.


   Understanding Health Plan Categories  

The higher the actuarial value (i.e. Gold and Platinum), the more that the health plan category will pay on average toward healthcare expenses. The lower the actuarial value (Bronze and Silver), the less the health plan category will pay. The typical actuarial values for the four coverage tiers are:



Bronze = 60 percentSilver = 70 percentGold = 80 percentPlatinum = 90 percent



All federal plans cover the same set of essential health benefits. Because each plan is different in terms of deductibles, copayments, and coinsurance amounts, your share of the costs may come in the form of a large deductible with low coinsurance (for example, a $4,000 deductible with 10 percent coinsurance) or a small deductible with high coinsurance (such as a $1,500 deductible with 30 percent coinsurance).



As with all health plans, consumers pay a monthly insurance premium whether or not they use healthcare services. Premiums are typically higher for plans that pay more of your medical expenses when you receive care, such as Gold and Platinum plans. In general, premiums are also higher for plans that have lower deductibles and lower coinsurance amounts.



In addition to the four metallic coverage tiers, a catastrophic level is available to people under age 30 and to certain people over age 30 who are granted hardship exemptions based on income and other circumstances that would prevent them from getting a Bronze, Silver, Gold, or Platinum plan.



There are 14 reasons for which someone may be granted a hardship exemption, including being homeless; having substantial property damage resulting from fire, flood, or other disaster; and filing for bankruptcy in the past three years.


   Comparing Health Plan Categories  
   Bronze  

Lowest monthly premiumHighest costs when you need careBronze plan deductibles can be thousands of dollars a year.Good choice if: You want a low-cost way to protect yourself from worst-case medical scenarios, like serious sickness or injury. Your monthly premium will be low, but you’ll have to pay for most routine care yourself.﻿﻿


   Silver  

Moderate monthly premiumModerate costs when you need careSilver deductibles are usually lower than those of Bronze plans.Good choice if: You qualify for "extra savings"—or, if not, if you’re willing to pay a slightly higher monthly premium than Bronze to have more of your routine care covered.﻿﻿


   Gold  

High monthly premiumLow costs when you need careDeductibles are usually low.Good choice if: You're willing to pay more each month to have more costs covered when you get medical treatment. If you use a lot of care, a Gold plan could be a good value.﻿﻿


   Platinum  

Highest monthly premiumLowest costs when you get careDeductibles are very low, meaning your plan starts paying its share earlier than for other categories of plans.Good choice if: You usually use a lot of care and are willing to pay a high monthly premium, knowing nearly all other costs will be covered.﻿﻿
What Is a Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA)?  

A health reimbursement arrangement (HRA) is an employer-funded plan that reimburses employees for qualified medical expenses and, in some cases, insurance premiums. Employers are allowed to claim a tax deduction for the reimbursements they make through these plans, and reimbursement dollars received by employees are generally tax-free.





Key Takeaways

HRAs reimburse employees for certain medical expenses and sometimes insurance premiums.Employers, not employees, fund HRAs.An HRA is not portable; employees lose this benefit when they leave the company.Government rules, which employers may refine further, determine which expenses can be reimbursed for employees.Depending on the type of HRA, funds may be used to reimburse health insurance premiums, vision and dental insurance premiums, and qualified medical expenses.


   How a Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) Works  

A health reimbursement arrangement is a plan set up by an employer to cover medical expenses for its employees. The employer decides how much it will put into the plan, and the employee can request reimbursement for actual medical expenses incurred up to that amount. All employees in the same class must receive the same HRA contribution.



An HRA is not an account. Therefore, employees cannot withdraw funds in advance and then use them to pay medical expenses. Instead, they must incur the expense first, then have it reimbursed. Reimbursement at the time of service is possible if the employer provides an HRA debit card.



An employee who uses up all the allocated funds in the HRA before year-end will have to cover any subsequent health bills out-of-pocket or with the funds in a flexible spending account (FSA), also known as a flexible spending arrangement, when available, or a health savings account (HSA) for employees who have a high-deductible health plan (HDHP).






Maternity clothes, gym membership fees, and childcare are among the expenses not covered by a health reimbursement arrangement (HRA).


   Types of HRAs  

There are a few kinds of health reimbursement arrangements.


  Qualified Small Employer Health Reimbursement Arrangement (QSEHRA)  

A Qualified Small Employer Health Reimbursement Arrangement (QSEHRA) is a health coverage subsidy plan for employees working for businesses that employ less than 50 full-time workers. Also known as a small business HRA, a QSEHRA can be used to offset health insurance coverage or repay medical expenses that would be otherwise uncovered.



The yearly limits are set by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). For 2022, a company with a QSEHRA can reimburse individual employees for up to $5,450 per year and employees that have families for up to $11,050 per year. In 2023, the limits change to $5,850 per individual and $11,800 per family.



The money that is reimbursed is tax-free for the employees and tax-deductible for the employers.


  Individual Coverage HRA (ICHRA)  

An Individual Coverage HRA (ICHRA) is relatively new, having only been available since January 2020. Previously, HRAs could not be used to pay individual health insurance premiums. But as of January 2020, the government allows employers to offer their employees a new type of HRA called an individual coverage HRA—instead of group health insurance.



Employees can use these HRAs to buy their own comprehensive individual health insurance with pretax dollars either on or off the Affordable Care Act's health insurance marketplace. Individual coverage HRAs can also reimburse employees for qualified health expenses such as copayments and deductibles.



Whether or not your ICHRA makes you eligible for a premium tax credit to help pay for health insurance coverage under the Affordable Care Act depends on whether your employer's ICHRA meets minimum standards for so-called "affordability," and whether you choose to opt-in or opt-out of the coverage.


  Excepted Benefit HRAs (EBHRA)  

In addition, employers that continue to offer traditional group health insurance can offer Excepted Benefit HRAs (EBHRA) to reimburse employees for up to $1,950 a year in qualified medical expenses.



Employees can enroll in an "excepted benefit HRA" even if they decline group health insurance coverage, but they cannot use the funds to buy comprehensive health insurance. They can, however, use the funds to pay for short-term health insurance, dental and vision insurance premiums, and qualified medical expenses.


   Benefits of Health Reimbursement Arrangements  

HRAs can be used to pay for qualified medical expenses, which include prescription medications, insulin, an annual physical exam, crutches, birth control pills, meals paid for while receiving treatment at a medical facility, care from a psychologist or psychiatrist, substance abuse treatment, transportation costs incurred to get medical care, and much more.



Employees can also use HRAs to buy their own comprehensive individual health insurance with pretax dollars through the aforementioned individual coverage HRA (ICHRA).






Employees can use the money in their HRAs to cover their spouse's and dependents' allowed medical, dental, and vision costs.


   Limitations of Health Reimbursement Arrangements  

An HRA only covers qualified medical and dental expenses. According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), medical expenses are costs incurred to alleviate or prevent a physical or mental ailment, not expenses to maintain general health, such as vitamins.



An employer may exclude certain medical expenses even though the expenses are qualified by the IRS. An employer’s list of reimbursable medical expenses will be outlined in its HRA plan document for employees.






The IRS issued a statement notifying taxpayers that at-home COVID-19 tests and personal protective equipment such as face masks and hand sanitizer are eligible medical expenses that can be paid or reimbursed under flexible health spending arrangements, health savings accounts, and health reimbursement arrangements (HRAs).





Pros

Can be used to pay for medical and dental expenses such as prescription medications, an annual physical exam, and birth control pills
Can be used to pay for individual health insurance with pretax dollars
Reimburses employees after they've paid for certain medical expenses and insurance premiums



Cons

Can't be used for costs that aren't deemed necessary, such as teeth whitening, funeral services, or non-prescription medication
Is set up by the employer, who decides how much money goes into the plan
Can't withdraw funds first, then pay expenses; must pay first, and then wait to get reimbursed





   Health Reimbursement Arrangements vs. Other Arrangements  

An employee with both an FSA and an HRA—and an expense that is eligible to be reimbursed through both plans—can't choose which will cover the expense. Instead, the costs will be reimbursed by the plan that the employer has set up to pay first. When this primary plan has been depleted, the second plan will be used to cover any subsequent eligible medical expenses that are reported for reimbursement.



Here's a closer look at two other options for funding out-of-pocket medical expenses.


  FSA  

A flexible spending arrangment (FSA) is funded using a portion of an employee's pre-tax salary. In contrast to an HRA, each employee determines how much money should go into these arrangements annually—up to $2,850 in 2022 and $3,050 in 2023.



Unused funds in HRAs may be carried over to the following year according to the employer's discretion. Unused FSA funds generally cannot be used in the next plan year, although an employer may offer either a short grace period (2.5 months) or allow up to $610 to be carried over.


  HSA  

Compared to an HRA, a health savings account (HSA) is a fully vested tax-advantaged account that is not subject to forfeiture if funds remain in the account at the end of the year. An HSA is paired with a high-deductible health plan (HDHP) to pay for medical and dental expenses. The employee or employer funds the account and, like an FSA, cannot be used to pay insurance premiums. Unlike HRAs and FSAs, employees can keep their HSAs if they change employers.


   How Can I Use HRA Funds?  

Your employer determines the types of medical expenses that an HRA can be used for. Some plans can only reimburse services in your health plan, while others might include dental, vision, or pharmacy services.



HRAs often, but do not always, reimburse other expenses such as copays, hospital expenses, medical equipment, eyeglasses, or routine doctor's visits.



In addition, the IRS also excludes certain other expenses as being unqualified. For example, expenses that do not qualify as necessary medical expenses include teeth whitening, maternity clothes, funeral services, health club membership fees, controlled substances, childcare for a healthy baby, medication from other countries, and non-prescription medications.


   HRAs Are Not Portable  
  HRA Funding and Portability  

The health reimbursement arrangement is funded solely by the employer, which also decides the maximum annual contribution for each employee’s HRA. Employers determine how much to contribute to employees’ HRAs, except that all workers in the same class of employees must receive the same contribution, as noted above. Workers who are older or who have dependents may receive more.



Any HRA money unspent by year-end may be rolled over to the following year, although an employer may set a maximum rollover limit that can be carried over from one year to the next. Furthermore, if an employee is terminated or leaves the company to work for another firm, the HRA does not go with them. That makes it different from an HSA—health savings account—which is portable.


  HRA Tax Advantages  

As a benefit to employers, reimbursements through the HRA are 100% tax-deductible. As an alternative to more expensive traditional healthcare, an employer may use an HRA to cover the health costs of several classes of employees. In addition, since employers fully fund the plans, they offer predictability, allowing employers to anticipate their approximate maximum expense for HRA health benefits for the year.



Employees may use the arrangement to pay for a wide range of medical expenses not covered by their health insurance policies. Depending on the HRA type, they may also use it for medical, dental, or vision insurance premiums.



Furthermore, reimbursements are tax-free up to a maximum amount for a coverage period. Some businesses may offer employees the added advantage of other employer-provided health benefits, such as an FSA, in conjunction with an HRA.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


What Is a HRA in Health Insurance?
A health reimbursement arrangement (HRA) is an employer's plan to cover employee medical expenses.




How Does a HRA Work?
The employer determines the amount of money that will go into the plan, and the employee can ask to be reimbursed for qualified medical expenses up to the designated amount. Employers can take a tax deduction for the reimbursements made through these plans, and the reimbursements given to employees are usually tax-free.




What Is a HRA vs. a HSA?
A health reimbursement arrangement (HRA) is a benefit used to pay employees back in tax-free money for certain qualified medical expenses and health coverage premiums.A health savings account (HSA) is a tax-advantaged account used by individuals covered under a high-deductible health plan (HDHP) looking to save up to cover the cost of qualified medical expenses.




Can I Cash out My HRA?
No. HRA money that hasn't been used by the end of the year can usually be rolled over to the following year, with an employer determining the maximum amount that can be carried from one year to another.




What Qualifies for HRA Reimbursement?
Examples of medical and dental expenses considered necessary might be an annual check-up, prescriptions, or substance abuse treatment.


   The Bottom Line  

A health reimbursement arrangement (HRA) is a tax-advantaged plan that employers use to reimburse employees for certain approved medical and dental expenses. The employer determines the plan amount up to a yearly limit, and the employee can be reimbursed up to that amount. The reimbursements paid to the employee are tax-free, and the employers can claim a tax deduction for their reimbursements.



A Qualified Small Employer Health Reimbursement Arrangement (QSEHRA) is an HRA for smaller companies with fewer than 50 full-time workers. An Individual Coverage HRA (ICHRA) allows employees to buy their own individual health insurance with pretax dollars. Employees with an ICHRA can be reimbursed for health expenses such as copayments and deductibles.
What Is a Health Savings Account (HSA)?  

A Health Savings Account (HSA) is a tax-advantaged account created for or by individuals covered under high-deductible health plans (HDHPs) to save for qualified medical expenses. Contributions are made into the account by the individual or their employer and are limited to a maximum amount each year. The contributions are invested over time and can be used to pay for qualified medical expenses, such as medical, dental, and vision care and prescription drugs.





Key Takeaways


A Health Savings Account (HSA) is a tax-advantaged account to help people save for medical expenses that are not reimbursed by high-deductible health plans (HDHPs).
No tax is levied on contributions to an HSA, the HSA’s earnings, or distributions used to pay for qualified medical expenses.
An HSA, owned by an employee, can be funded by the employee and the employer.
Contributions are vested, and unused account balances at year-end can be carried forward.



   How an HSA Works  

As mentioned above, people with HDHPs can open HSAs. Individuals with HDHPs may qualify for HSAs, and the two are usually paired together. To qualify for an HSA, the taxpayer must meet eligibility standards established by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). An eligible individual is someone who:



Has a qualified HDHPHas no other health coverageIs not enrolled in MedicareIs not claimed as a dependent on someone else’s tax return



The maximum contribution for an HSA in 2022 is $3,650 for an individual ($3,850 for 2023) and $7,300 for a family ($7,750 in 2023). The annual limits on contributions apply to the total amounts contributed by both the employer and the employee. Individuals age 55 or older by the end of the tax year can make catch-up contributions of an additional $1,000 to their HSAs.



An HSA can also be opened at certain financial institutions. Contributions can only be made in cash, while employer-sponsored plans can be funded by the employee and their employer. Any other person, such as a family member, can also contribute to the HSA of an eligible individual. Self-employed or unemployed individuals may also contribute to an HSA, provided that they meet the eligibility requirements.



Individuals who enroll in Medicare can no longer contribute to an HSA as of the first month of enrollment. However, they can receive tax-free distributions for qualified medical expenses, which are discussed below.






The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act of 2020 allowed HSA funds to be used for over-the-counter medications without a prescription and certain other health-related products. Plan holders who are unsure about what expenses qualify should check with their HSA administrator or pharmacist.


   HSA Special Considerations  

HDHPs have higher annual deductibles (the plan pays nothing until you reach these amounts in out-of-pocket expenses) but lower premiums than other health plans. The financial benefit of an HDHP’s low-premium and high-deductible structure depends on your personal situation.



The minimum deductible required to open an HSA is $1,400 for an individual or $2,800 for a family for the 2022 tax year ($1,500 and $3,000, respectively, for 2023). The plan must also have an annual out-of-pocket maximum of $7,050 for self-coverage for the 2022 tax year ($7,500 for 2023) and $14,100 for families for the 2022 tax year ($15,000 for 2023). These maximums cap your out-of-pocket expenses.



When an individual pays qualified medical expenses equal to a plan’s deductible amount, additional qualified expenses are divided between the individual and the plan. For instance, the insurer covers a percentage of the qualified expenses per the contract (usually 80% to 90%), while the plan holder pays the remaining 10% to 20% or a specified co-pay.



Using this guide, an individual with an annual deductible of $1,500 (in 2023) and a medical claim of $3,500 pays the first $1,500 to cover the annual deductible. The insured pays 10% to 20% of the remaining $2,000, while the insurance company covers the rest.



Once the annual deductible is met in a given plan year, the plan typically covers any additional medical expenses, except for any uncovered costs under the contract, such as co-pays. The insured can withdraw money accumulated in an HSA to cover these out-of-pocket expenses.






HSAs should not be confused with Health Spending Accounts, which employers use in Canada to provide health and dental benefits for their Canadian employees.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of an HSA  

HSAs have advantages and drawbacks. The effect of these accounts depends entirely on your personal and financial situations.


  Advantages  

Employer and individual contributions by payroll deduction to an HSA are excluded from the employee’s taxable income. An individual’s direct contributions to an HSA are 100% tax deductible from the employee’s income. Earnings in the account are also tax free. However, excess contributions to an HSA incur a 6% tax and are not tax deductible.



Distributions from an HSA are tax free, provided that the funds are used for qualified medical expenses as outlined by the IRS. Distributions used for medical expenses covered under the HDHP plan are included in determining if the HDHP’s deductible has been met.



You can also use the money in your HSA to invest in stocks and other securities, potentially allowing for higher returns over time.


  Disadvantages  

The most obvious key drawback is that you need to be a good candidate for an HDHP. In addition, you must have a high-deductible plan, lower insurance premiums, or be affluent enough to afford the high deductibles and benefit from the tax advantages.



Individuals who fund their own HSAs, whether through payroll deductions or directly, should be financially capable of setting aside an amount that would cover a substantial portion of their HDHPs’ deductibles. Individuals without enough spare cash to set aside in an HSA may find the high deductible amount burdensome.



HSAs also come with filing requirements regarding contributions, specific rules on withdrawals, distribution reporting, and a record-keeping burden that may be difficult to maintain.


   Withdrawals Permitted Under an HSA  

Amounts withdrawn from an HSA aren’t taxed as long as they are used to pay for services that the IRS treats as qualified medical expenses. Here are some basics you need to know:



Qualified medical expenses include deductibles, dental services, vision care, prescription drugs, co-pays, psychiatric treatments, and other qualified medical expenses not covered by a health insurance plan. Note: These were expanded by the CARES Act.
Insurance premiums don’t count as a qualified medical expense unless the premiums are for Medicare or other healthcare coverage (provided you are age 65 or older) for health insurance when receiving healthcare continuation coverage (COBRA), for coverage when receiving unemployment compensation, or for long-term care insurance, subject to annually adjusted limits. Premiums for Medicare supplemental or Medigap policies are not treated as qualified medical expenses.



If distributions are made from an HSA to pay for anything other than a qualified medical expense, that amount is subject to both income tax and an additional 20% tax penalty. However, once an individual turns 65, the 20% tax penalty is eliminated, and only income tax would apply for non-qualified withdrawals.


   HSA Contribution Rules  

Contributions made to an HSA do not have to be used or withdrawn during the tax year. Instead, they are vested, and any unused contributions can be rolled over to the following year. Also, an HSA is portable, meaning that if employees change jobs, they can still keep their HSAs.



An HSA plan can also be transferred to a surviving spouse tax free upon the account holder’s death. However, if the designated beneficiary is not the account holder’s spouse, then the account is no longer treated as an HSA, and the beneficiary is taxed on the account’s fair market value, adjusted for any qualified medical expenses of the decedent paid from the account within a year of the date of death.


   HSA vs. Flexible Spending Account  

The HSA is often compared with the Flexible Spending Account (FSA). While both accounts can be used for medical expenses, some key differences exist between them:



FSAs are employer-sponsored plans.Only employed individuals can sign up for FSAs.Unused funds in the FSA during a given tax year can’t be rolled over and are forfeited once the year ends.Your elected contribution amount for an FSA is fixed, unlike HSA contributions.



The maximum contribution for an FSA for the 2022 tax year is $2,850 ($3,050 for 2023).




Can I open a Health Savings Account (HSA) if I’m self-employed?
Yes. Individuals with high-deductible health plans (HDHPs) can open a Health Savings Account (HSA). If you are self-employed, you can look into HSAs offered by brokerages or banks like Fidelity, HealthEquity, or Lively. Research your options carefully to ensure you get the best HSA to suit your needs.




Do I have to use all of the money in my HSA every year?
No. Unlike a Flexible Spending Account (FSA), your contributions to your HSA can roll over yearly. Since the funds can also be invested, users can build capital for more significant medical needs or use it as an investment fund after retirement.




Can I pay my insurance premiums with my HSA funds?
In most cases, no. HSAs can be used for most medical expenses, like doctor’s appointments, prescriptions, or over-the-counter medications, but not your monthly premium. The only exception to this rule is when the funds are used to pay Medicare premiums or other healthcare continuation coverage, such as COBRA, while you’re on unemployment compensation. You may also pay for long-term care insurance using your HSA.


   The Bottom Line  

All in all, HSAs are one of the best tax-advantaged savings and investment tools available under the U.S. tax code. They are often referred to as triple tax-advantaged because:



Contributions are not subject to tax.The money can be invested and grown tax free.Withdrawals are not taxed as long as you use them for qualified medical expenses.



As a person ages, medical expenses tend to increase, particularly when reaching retirement age and beyond. Therefore, starting an HSA early if you qualify—and allowing it to accumulate over a long period—can contribute greatly to securing your financial future.
What Is a Healthcare Power of Attorney?  

A healthcare power of attorney (HCPA) is a legal document that allows an individual to empower another person to make decisions about their medical care. A healthcare power of attorney refers to both a legal document and a specific person with legal authority.





Key Takeaways

A healthcare power of attorney (HCPA) is a legal document that empowers a specific individual to speak with others and make decisions on your behalf concerning your medical condition, treatment, and care.It is important to trust your HCPA, as that person may be charged with making life-and-death decisions on your behalf.Although an HCPA is easy to put in place, states have different rules and forms; so you'll need to consult those of the state in which you live.


   Understanding Healthcare Power of Attorney  

The healthcare power of attorney helps people who cannot communicate to exert their wishes regarding their medical care and treatment. The persons listed on the HCPA document become the sick or injured person's agent or healthcare proxy. Usually, the form asks for alternates in case the first-named HCPA is not available to serve in this capacity. Each state might differ in this and other such details, however, so you'll need to consult your own state's rules and forms when arranging for an HCPA.



Healthcare proxies can communicate with the patient's doctors to prevent unwanted treatments and avoid making the wrong decisions. They also have the power to make medical decisions for the person who is incapacitated. Writing an HCPA is straightforward—you fill out a form and have it notarized. Moreover, you can change or revoke who you want to be your healthcare proxy at any time by simply destroying the old HCPA and completing a new one.



Anyone may serve as a healthcare power of attorney, or an attorney-in-fact. Your HCPA can have any type of relationship with you—this person might be your friend, partner, lover, relative, or colleague for example. You are free to choose anybody, so long as you trust them and feel that they are competent.






The healthcare power of attorney serves a vital function during both periodic illnesses and at the end of life.


   Why Would Someone Want, or Need, an HCPA?  
  Making Life Better  

Imagine that you are the sick person cited above. Not only are you sick, but you're also debilitated—you can't speak or move, and possibly can't even think. What might this look like? You might be in such terrible pain that you literally cannot speak. Maybe you are unconscious as the result of an accident. Perhaps you are a terminally ill patient who has entered into a coma. If you've ever found yourself in these types of situations, and come out alive, you likely would have been grateful that your HCPA was in place to communicate with your doctors and others for the sake of your wellbeing.


  Making Death Better  

Of course, if you are dying or comatose, you might not actually witness your healthcare proxy speaking with your doctors. But some people might take comfort now in the thought that when they are dying, their healthcare proxy will be there to ensure that their wishes are fulfilled properly. The HCPA serves an important function both during periodic illnesses and at the end of life.


  A Very Personal Decision  

On the other hand, some people might not want an HCPA. Perhaps they are uncomfortable with the concept of someone making decisions for them. Maybe they don't want to envision a situation where they are physically debilitated or comatose, or it could be that some people just don't want to think about their deaths at all while they are alive.






As with other major life decisions, whether or not to engage an HCPA is a personal choice. A healthcare power of attorney may not be for everybody.


   How It Works  

When the patient, owner of the HCPA, becomes too ill to communicate their wishes about their medical care to others, the HCPA becomes activated—meaning that the person you named in the document has the power to make life and death decisions about and for you. Now, "HCPA" refers to both the HCPA document and the person you named in it.



An HCPA could say to my doctors, for example, "If Carla cannot breathe on her own, then she does not want any life-saving measures to be taken for her." Aside from specific directives like this one, you can include in your HCPA filing more general insights such as your religious beliefs, morals, and basic ethical values.


   Choosing a Healthcare Proxy  
  Critical to Self-Care  

Naming a healthcare power of attorney is an important step toward caring for yourself. Having an HCPA lets everyone, including your doctors, know the exact nature of your wishes were you to face big medical decisions but be unable to communicate. Knowing your wishes can help lift the burden—of trying to guess what they are—from others. The more they know about your treatment preferences, the smoother your care can be.


  An Intimate Calling  

It is an understatement to say that you must trust your HCPA. Of course, you should trust them. But because you'll be sharing intimate self-knowledge with this person, you also need to have a special rapport with them; relaxed enough to be your true self—no holds barred. This is true no matter what other roles your HCPA serves vis-à-vis you. So, before choosing an HCPA, consider carefully. However, relationships change, as do our feelings toward others. So what if you feel that you've made a mistake?


  You Can Change Your Mind  

You are truly free to choose anyone you want as your healthcare proxy; this includes the freedom to reverse your decision at any time. If you want to assign a new HCPA, just eradicate the original document and create a new one designating the new HCPA.






Not everyone has an HCPA, but if more people understood this term, perhaps they would see the benefit of assigning one.


   How to Set Up an HCPA  

To appoint someone as your healthcare power of attorney, you may fill out a form that names the individual along with any stipulations that you wish them to have regarding your medical care. The form will also list any special requests you may have, such as asking for a do-not-resuscitate (DNR) order and avoiding interventions that will extend your life.



Some states—namely Indiana, New Hampshire, Ohio, Texas, and Wisconsin—do not permit a universal power-of-attorney form and require that you use their state-specific form instead to designate your power of attorney.



Some states also require witnesses to be present if the individual is in a nursing home or care facility. A basic healthcare power of attorney form will require you to list your name, birthday, date, and the identifying information of the individual that you are naming. You can also name two back-up agents in the event that your first preference is not available or unwilling to take on the role. If you live in Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, or West Virginia, the form must be notarized. The healthcare power of attorney takes effect immediately once the paperwork is signed.
What Is the Healthcare Sector?  

The healthcare sector consists of businesses that provide medical services, manufacture medical equipment or drugs, provide medical insurance, or otherwise facilitate the provision of healthcare to patients.





Key Takeaways

The healthcare sector consists of all businesses involved in the provision and coordination of medical and related goods and services.This sector enjoys some significant advantages in the U.S. but is also beset with a several factors that present potential economic problems.The U.S. healthcare sector accounts for an outsized share of spending relative to health outcomes, which has led to uncertainties around politically driven reform of the industry.


   Understanding the Healthcare Sector  

The healthcare sector is one of the largest and most complex in the U.S. economy, accounting for 18% of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2020. The U.S. healthcare sector benefits from a strong system of medical research and development, in cooperation with the higher education system and the technology industry. The aging U.S. population and the advancing senescence of the Baby Boomer generation are driving ongoing strong demand in the healthcare sector.



Economically, healthcare markets are marked by a few distinct factors. Government intervention in healthcare markets and activities is pervasive, in part due to some of these economic factors. Demand for healthcare services is highly price inelastic. Consumers and producers face inherent uncertainties regarding needs, outcomes, and the costs of services. Patients, providers, and other industry players possess widely asymmetric information and principal-agent problems are ubiquitous.



Major barriers to entry exist in the form of professional licensure, regulation, intellectual property protections, specialized expertise, research and development costs, and natural economies of scale. Consumption (or non-consumption) and production of medical services can involve significant externalities, particularly regarding infectious diseases. Transactions costs are high in both the provision of care and the coordination of care.


   Industries Within the Healthcare Sector  

The healthcare sector contains a diverse array of industries, with activities ranging from research to manufacturing to facilities management.


  Drugs  

Drug manufacturers can further be broken down into biotechnology firms, major pharmaceutical firms, and makers of generic drugs. The biotech industry consists of companies that engage in research and development to create new drugs, devices, and treatment methods.



Many of these companies are small and lack dependable sources of revenue. Their market value may depend entirely on the expectation that a drug or treatment will gain regulatory approval, and FDA decisions or rulings in patent cases can lead to sharp, double-digit swings in share prices. Examples of (larger) biotech firms include Novo Nordisk (NVO), Regeneron ( REGN), Alexion ( ALXN), Vertex ( VRTX), Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD), and Celgene Corp. (CELG).



Major pharmaceutical firms also engage in research and development but tend to focus more on manufacturing and marketing an existing portfolio of drugs than the typical biotech firm. These companies tend to have more dependable streams of revenue and a more diversified "pipeline" of drugs in the research and development stages, making them less dependent on make-or-break drug trials and their shares less volatile. Examples of major pharmaceutical firms include Johnson and Johnson, Roche, Pfizer, Eli Lilly, Novartis AG. GlaxoSmithKline, and Astrazeneca.



Some pharmaceutical firms specialize in generic drugs, which are identical to name-brand drugs but no longer enjoy patent protection. As a result, there is often competition to manufacture identical drugs, leading to lower prices and thinner profit margins. An example of a generic drugs firm is Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.


  Medical Equipment  

Medical equipment makers range from firms that manufacture standard, familiar products—scalpels, forceps, bandages, and gloves—to those that conduct cutting-edge research and produce expensive, hi-tech equipment, such as MRI machines and surgical robots. Medtronic PLC is an example of a medical equipment maker.


  Managed Healthcare  

Managed healthcare companies provide health insurance policies. The "Big Five" firms that dominate the managed Medicaid industry are UnitedHealth Group Inc., Anthem Inc., Aetna Inc., Molina., and Centene.


  Healthcare Facilities  

Healthcare facilities firms operate hospitals, clinics, labs, psychiatric facilities, and nursing homes. Examples include Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings, which operates facilities that perform blood tests and other analyses, and HCA Healthcare Inc., which operates hospitals and other healthcare facilities in the U.S. and U.K.


   Healthcare in the U.S. and the OECD  

According to the OECD, some of the highest-quality care in the world can be found in the U.S., but in terms of some measures of health the U.S. lags other wealthy, developed countries. Life expectancy is 78.9 years, according to the OECD, below the OECD average of 80 (the OECD's 38 members are mostly rich, industrialized countries in Europe and North America).







Despite these subpar results, the U.S. spends far more than any other country on healthcare, measured per head of population: $10,948. This situation has led to a number of national reform efforts, including the Affordable Care Act. Investors in the healthcare sector face considerable political risk as a result of uncertainties around the push-and-pull between politics and industry interests.
What is Heating Degree Day - HDD  

A heating degree day (HDD) is a measurement designed to quantify the demand for energy needed to heat a building. It is the number of degrees that a day's average temperature is below 65o Fahrenheit (18o Celsius), which is the temperature below which buildings need to be heated. The price of weather derivatives traded in the winter is based on an index made up of monthly HDD values. The settlement price for a weather futures contract is calculated by summing HDD values for a month and multiplying that sum by $20.


   Basics of Heating Degree Day - HDD  

While HDD can describe the overall need for heating as part of the planning for residential or commercial buildings, it is critical for the pricing of weather futures. In turn, that creates a risk management tool that utility, agriculture, construction and other firms can use to hedge their activities that depend on the weather—energy needs, growing season, outdoor work time, etc. The first weather futures contracts based on HDD were listed in September 1999 at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME).


   How to Calculate Heating Degree Day (HDD)  

There are several ways to calculate HDD. The more detailed a record of temperature data, the more accurate the HDD calculation.



Subtract the average of a day's high and low temperatures from 65. For example, if the day's average temperature is 50o F, its HDD is 15. If that day's average is above 65, the result is set to zero. If every day in a 30-day month had an average temperature of 50o F, the month's HDD value would be 450 (15 x 30). The nominal settlement value for that month's weather derivative contract would therefore be $9,000 (450 x $20).
Subtract each half-hourly temperature reading from 65, with the provision that negative values be set to zero, then sum the result and divide by 48 (48 half-hours in a day). Then sum that value over 30 (for a 30-day month) and multiply by $20. If a given day's value is less than or equal to zero, that day has zero HDD. But if the value is positive, that number represents the HDD on that day.



For all methods, if the value for any given day is less than or equal to zero, that day has zero HDD. But if the value is positive, that number represents the HDD on that day.



A similar measurement, cooling degree day (CDD), reflects the amount of energy used to cool a home or business.



One caveat is that heating degree days are extremely localized. Heating (and cooling) needs vary greatly depending on the geographical region. And further, the average HDD in one building may not have the same impact as it does in the building next door due to differences in construction, orientation relative to other buildings, insulation, sun exposure, and the nature of the building's usage.





Key Takeaways

A Heating Degree Day (HDD) measures the average number of days that the temperature falls below 65 degrees fahreinheit. At that temperature, buildings turn on heating systems to maintain average temperatures of 70 degrees.HDD is set to zero if it has a negative value.HDD is used in calculations of weather futures contracts, which are used as a risk management tool by industries, such as construction and agriculture, whose operations are affected by weather conditions.
What Is the Heath-Jarrow-Morton (HJM) Model?  

The Heath-Jarrow-Morton Model (HJM Model) is used to model forward interest rates. These rates are then modeled to an existing term structure of interest rates to determine appropriate prices for interest-rate-sensitive securities.





Key Takeaways

The Heath-Jarrow-Morton Model (HJM Model) is used to model forward interest rates using a differential equation that allows for randomness.These rates are then modeled to an existing term structure of interest rates to determine appropriate prices for interest-rate sensitive securities such as bonds or swaps.Today, it is used mainly by arbitrageurs seeking arbitrage opportunities, as well as analysts pricing derivatives.


   Formula for the HJM Model  

In general, the HJM model and those that are built on its framework follow the formula:


















d


f


(


t


,


T


)


=


α


(


t


,


T


)


d


t


+


σ


(


t


,


T


)


d


W


(


t


)
















where:
















d


f


(


t


,


T


)


=


The instantaneous forward interest rate of
















zero-coupon bond with maturity T, is assumed to satisfy
















the stochastic differential equation shown above.
















α


,


σ


=


Adapted
















W


=


A Brownian motion (random-walk) under the
















risk-neutral assumption







\begin{aligned} &\text{d}f(t,T) = \alpha (t,T)\text{d}t + \sigma (t,T)\text{d}W(t)\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{d}f(t,T) = \text{The instantaneous forward interest rate of}\\&\text{zero-coupon bond with maturity T, is assumed to satisfy}\\&\text{the stochastic differential equation shown above.}\\ &\alpha, \sigma = \text{Adapted}\\ &W = \text{A Brownian motion (random-walk) under the}\\&\text{risk-neutral assumption}\\ \end{aligned}


​df(t,T)=α(t,T)dt+σ(t,T)dW(t)where:df(t,T)=The instantaneous forward interest rate ofzero-coupon bond with maturity T, is assumed to satisfythe stochastic differential equation shown above.α,σ=AdaptedW=A Brownian motion (random-walk) under therisk-neutral assumption​


   What Does the HJM Model Tell You?  

A Heath-Jarrow-Morton Model is very theoretical and is used at the most advanced levels of financial analysis. It is used mainly by arbitrageurs seeking arbitrage opportunities, as well as analysts pricing derivatives. The HJM Model predicts forward interest rates, with the starting point being the sum of what’s known as drift terms and diffusion terms. The forward rate drift is driven by volatility, which is known as the HJM drift condition. In the basic sense, an HJM Model is any interest rate model driven by a finite number of Brownian motions. 



The HJM Model is based on the work of economists David Heath, Robert Jarrow, and Andrew Morton in the 1980s. The trio wrote a series of notable papers in the late 1980s and early 1990sthat laid the groundwork for the framework, among them "Bond Pricing and the Term Structure of Interest Rates: A Discrete Time Approximation", " Contingent Claims Valuation with a Random Evolution of Interest Rates", and “Bond Pricing and the Term Structure of Interest Rates: A New Methodology for Contingent Claims Valuation".



There are various additional models built on the HJM Framework. They all generally look to predict the entire forward rate curve, not just the short rate or another point on the curve. The biggest issue with HJM Models is that they tend to have infinite dimensions, making it almost impossible to compute. There are various models that look to express the HJM Model as a finite state.


   HJM Model and Option Pricing  

The HJM Model is also used in option pricing, which refers to finding the fair value of a derivative contract. Trading institutions may use models to price options as a strategy for finding under- or overvalued options.



Option pricing models are mathematical models that use known inputs and predicted values, such as implied volatility, to find the theoretical value of options. Traders will use certain models to figure out the price at a certain point in time, updating the value calculation based on changing risk.



For an HJM Model, to calculate the value of an interest rate swap, the first step is to form a discount curve based on current option prices. From that discount curve, forward rates can be obtained. From there, the volatility of forwarding interest rates must be input, and if the volatility is known the drift can be determined.
What Is a Heatmap?  

A heatmap is a two-dimensional visual representation of data using colors, where the colors all represent different values.



A heatmap can be used with all sorts of data, from the real estate market representing the number of foreclosures to the spreads of credit default swaps (CDS) to webpage analysis reflecting the number of hits a website receives.





Key Takeaways

A heatmap is a graphical representation of data in two-dimension, using colors to demonstrate different factors.Heatmaps are a helpful visual aid for a viewer, enabling the quick dissemination of statistical or data-driven information.On the downside, heatmaps provide only selective information, therefore clouding the big picture on an issue; heatmaps are also often prepared when only preliminary information is available.While heatmaps are used in various industries and circumstances, they are commonly employed to show user participation on a website.Heatmaps became trendy after the recession that began in 2008.


   Understanding a Heatmap  

Heatmaps were used as early as the 19th century in statistical analysis and grew as a useful tool for almost every industry and field, including medicine, marketing, engineering, and research.



As a practical example of how heatmaps can be helpful, they became trendy during the recession that began in 2008. Many people used heatmaps to quickly see the foreclosure rates in various states and compare them to heatmaps from previous months to see if foreclosures were rising, falling, or staying the same.



Heatmaps are helpful because they can provide an efficient and comprehensive overview of a topic at-a-glance. Unlike charts or tables, which have to be interpreted or studied to be understood, heatmaps are direct data visualization tools that are more self-explanatory and easy to read.



Heatmaps can also be more user-friendly for consumers. In particular, they benefit those consumers not accustomed to reading large amounts of data because they are more visually accessible than traditional data formats.


   Heatmap Example  

Heatmaps can be employed in a variety of situations and industries. For example, a heatmap of foreclosures data could show parts of the U.S. experiencing high foreclosure rates in a dark color and states with low foreclosure rates in lighter colors, which could be useful for real estate professionals looking to understand more about the market and identify market trends.



A color-gradient legend typically accompanies a heatmap to specify the data and help the map reader understand the data. Heatmaps are also widely used in webpage industries to show where users are clicking.






Heatmaps can be used to quickly view foreclosures across the United States.


   Special Considerations  

However, heatmaps can also be misleading because they often involve large amounts of data and may not include all of the necessary information needed to make an accurate assumption about the trend. Heatmaps can show that certain situations happened but do not provide insight into why the situation occurred, what factors were involved in the situation happening, or what the forecast for the future will be.



Heatmaps are often made before all of the data on a topic is released to provide some preliminary analytics for viewers, so they have to be read with that caveat in mind.
What Is Heavy Industry?  

Heavy industry relates to a type of business that typically carries a high capital cost (capital-intensive), high barriers to entry, and low transportability. The term "heavy" refers to the fact that the items produced by "heavy industry" used to be products such as iron, coal, oil, ships, etc. Today, the reference also refers to industries that disrupt the environment in the form of pollution, deforestation, etc.





Key Takeaways

Heavy industry is a type of business that involves large-scale undertakings, big equipment, large areas of land, high cost, and high barriers to entry.It contrasts with light industry, or production that is small-scale can be completed in factories or small facilities, costs less, and has lower barriers to entry.Heavy industry tends to be cyclical, benefiting from the start of an economic upturn as investments are made into more expensive, longer-term projects, such as buildings, aerospace, and defense products.Heavy industry tends to sell what it produces to other industrial customers, versus the end customer, making it a part of the supply chain of other products.


   Understanding Heavy Industry  

Heavy industry businesses typically involve large and heavy products or large and heavy equipment and facilities (such as large machine tools and huge buildings); or complex or numerous processes. Because of those factors, heavy industry involves higher capital intensity than light industry does. Heavy industry is also often more heavily cyclical in investment and employment.






Products that result from heavy industry tend to be large in size and low in terms of transportability.


   How Heavy Industry Works  

Transportation and construction, along with their upstream manufacturing supply businesses, comprised most heavy industry throughout the industrial age, along with some capital-intensive manufacturing. Traditional examples from the Industrial Revolution through the early 20th century included steelmaking, artillery production, locomotive erection, machine tool building, and the heavier types of mining.



When the chemical industry and electrical industry developed, they involved elements of both heavy industry and light industry, which was soon also true for the automotive industry and the aircraft industry. Heavy industry shipbuilding became the norm as steel replaced wood in modern shipbuilding. Large systems are often characteristic of heavy industry, such as the construction of skyscrapers and large dams during the post-World War II era, and the manufacture/deployment of large rockets and giant wind turbines through the 21st century.



Another trait of heavy industry is that it most often sells its goods to other industrial customers, rather than to the end consumer. Heavy industries tend to be a part of the supply chain of other products. As a result, their stocks will often rally at the beginning of an economic upturn and are often the first to benefit from an increase in demand.


   Heavy Industry in Asia  

The economies of many East Asian countries are based on heavy industry.﻿﻿ Among such Japanese and Korean firms, many are manufacturers of aerospace products and defense contractors. Examples include Japan's Fuji Heavy Industries and Korea's Hyundai Rotem, a joint project of Hyundai Heavy Industries and Daewoo Heavy Industries.



In the 20th century, Asian communist states often focused on heavy industry as an area for large investments in their planned economies. This decision was motivated by fears of failing to maintain military parity with foreign powers. For example, the Soviet Union's manic industrialization in the 1930s, with heavy industry as the favored emphasis, sought to bring its ability to produce trucks, tanks, artillery, aircraft, and warships up to a level that would make the country a great power.﻿﻿
What Is the Heckscher-Ohlin Model?  

The Heckscher-Ohlin model is an economic theory that proposes that countries export what they can most efficiently and plentifully produce. Also referred to as the H-O model or 2x2x2 model, it's used to evaluate trade and, more specifically, the equilibrium of trade between two countries that have varying specialties and natural resources.



The model emphasizes the export of goods requiring factors of production that a country has in abundance. It also emphasizes the import of goods that a nation cannot produce as efficiently. It takes the position that countries should ideally export materials and resources of which they have an excess, while proportionately importing those resources they need.





Warning

Here is some important information regarding the Heckscher-Ohlin model.The Heckscher-Ohlin model evaluates the equilibrium of trade between two countries that have varying specialties and natural resources.The model explains how a nation should operate and trade when resources are imbalanced throughout the world.The model isn't limited to commodities, but also incorporates other production factors such as labor.


   The Basics of the Heckscher-Ohlin Model  

The primary work behind the Heckscher-Ohlin model was a 1919 Swedish paper written by Eli Heckscher at the Stockholm School of Economics. His student, Bertil Ohlin, added to it in 1933. Economist Paul Samuelson expanded the original model through articles written in 1949 and 1953. Some refer to it as the Heckscher-Ohlin-Samuelson model for this reason.



The Heckscher-Ohlin model explains mathematically how a country should operate and trade when resources are imbalanced throughout the world. It pinpoints a preferred balance between two countries, each with its resources.



The model isn't limited to tradable commodities. It also incorporates other production factors such as labor. The costs of labor vary from one nation to another, so countries with cheap labor forces should focus primarily on producing labor-intensive goods, according to the model.


   Evidence Supporting the Heckscher-Ohlin Model  

Although the Heckscher-Ohlin model appears reasonable, most economists have had difficulty finding evidence to support it. A variety of other models have been used to explain why industrialized and developed countries traditionally lean toward trading with one another and rely less heavily on trade with developing markets.



The Linder hypothesis outlines and explains this theory. It states that countries with similar incomes require similarly valued products and that this leads them to trade with each other.


   Real-World Example of the Heckscher-Ohlin Model  

Certain countries have extensive oil reserves but have very little iron ore. Meanwhile, other countries can easily access and store precious metals, but they have little in the way of agriculture.



For example, the Netherlands exported almost $577 million in U.S. dollars in 2019, compared to imports that year of approximately $515 million. Its top import-export partner was Germany. Importing on a close to equal basis allowed it to more efficiently and economically manufacture and provide its exports.



The model emphasizes the benefits of international trade and the global benefits to everyone when each country puts the most effort into exporting resources that are domestically naturally abundant. All countries benefit when they import the resources they naturally lack. Because a nation does not have to rely solely on internal markets, it can take advantage of elastic demand. The cost of labor increases and marginal productivity declines as more countries and emerging markets develop. Trading internationally allows countries to adjust to capital-intensive goods production, which would not be possible if each country only sold goods internally.
What Is a Hedge?  

To hedge, in finance, is to take an offsetting position in an asset or investment that reduces the price risk of an existing position. A hedge is therefore a trade that is made with the purpose of reducing the risk of adverse price movements in another asset. Normally, a hedge consists of taking the opposite position in a related security or in a derivative security based on the asset to be hedged.



Derivatives can be effective hedges against their underlying assets because the relationship between the two is more or less clearly defined. Derivatives are securities that move in correspondence to one or more underlying assets. They include options, swaps, futures, and forward contracts. The underlying assets can be stocks, bonds, commodities, currencies, indexes, or interest rates. It’s possible to use derivatives to set up a trading strategy in which a loss for one investment is mitigated or offset by a gain in a comparable derivative.





Key Takeaways


A hedge is a strategy that seeks to limit risk exposures in financial assets.
Popular hedging techniques involve taking offsetting positions in derivatives that correspond to an existing position.
Other types of hedges can be constructed via other means like diversification. An example could be investing in both cyclical and countercyclical stocks.
Besides protecting an investor from various types of risk, it is believed that hedging makes the market run more efficiently.













Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   How a Hedge Works  

Using a hedge is somewhat analogous to taking out an insurance policy. If you own a home in a flood-prone area, you will want to protect that asset from the risk of flooding—to hedge it, in other words—by taking out flood insurance. In this example, you cannot prevent a flood, but you can plan ahead of time to mitigate the dangers in the event that a flood occurs.



There is a risk-reward tradeoff inherent in hedging; while it reduces potential risk, it also chips away at potential gains. Put simply, hedging isn’t free. In the case of the flood insurance policy example, the monthly payments add up, and if the flood never comes, the policyholder receives no payout. Still, most people would choose to take that predictable, circumscribed loss rather than suddenly lose the roof over their heads.



In the investment world, hedging works in the same way. Investors and money managers use hedging practices to reduce and control their exposure to risks. To appropriately hedge in the investment world, one must use various instruments in a strategic fashion to offset the risk of adverse price movements in the market. The best way to do this is to make another investment in a targeted and controlled way. Of course, the parallels with the insurance example above are limited: In the case of flood insurance, the policyholder would be completely compensated for her loss, perhaps less a deductible. In the investment space, hedging is both more complex and an imperfect science.






A perfect hedge is one that eliminates all risk in a position or portfolio. In other words, the hedge is 100% inversely correlated to the vulnerable asset. This is more an ideal than a reality on the ground, and even the hypothetical perfect hedge is not without cost. Basis risk refers to the risk that an asset and a hedge will not move in opposite directions as expected. “Basis” refers to the discrepancy.


   Hedging With Derivatives  

Derivatives are financial contracts whose price depends on the value of some underlying security. Futures, forwards, and options contracts are common types of derivatives contracts.



The effectiveness of a derivative hedge is expressed in terms of its delta, sometimes called the hedge ratio. Delta is the amount that the price of a derivative moves per $1 movement in the price of the underlying asset.



The specific hedging strategy, as well as the pricing of hedging instruments, is likely to depend upon the downside risk of the underlying security against which the investor would like to hedge. Generally, the greater the downside risk, the greater the cost of the hedge. Downside risk tends to increase with higher levels of volatility and over time; an option that expires after a longer period and is linked to a more volatile security and thus will be more expensive as a means of hedging.



In the STOCK example above, the higher the strike price, the more expensive the put option will be, but the more price protection it will offer as well. These variables can be adjusted to create a less expensive option that offers less protection, or a more expensive one that provides greater protection. Still, at a certain point, it becomes inadvisable to purchase additional price protection from the perspective of cost-effectiveness.






Various kinds of options and futures contracts allow investors to hedge against adverse price movements in almost any investment, including stocks, bonds, interest rates, currencies, commodities, and more.


   Example of Hedging With a Put Option  

A common way of hedging in the investment world is through put options. Puts give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to sell the underlying security at a pre-set price on or before the date it expires.



For example, if Morty buys 100 shares of Stock PLC (STOCK) at $10 per share, he might hedge his investment by buying a put option with a strike price of $8 expiring in one year. This option gives Morty the right to sell 100 shares of STOCK for $8 anytime in the next year.



Let’s assume he pays $1 for the option, or $100 in premium. If STOCK is trading at $12 one year later, Morty will not exercise the option and will be out $100. He’s unlikely to fret, though, because his unrealized gain is $100 ($100 including the price of the put). If STOCK is trading at $0, on the other hand, Morty will exercise the option and sell his shares for $8, for a loss of $300 ($300 including the price of the put). Without the option, he stood to lose his entire investment.


   Hedging Through Diversification  

Using derivatives to hedge an investment enables precise calculations of risk, but it requires a measure of sophistication and often quite a bit of capital. However, derivatives are not the only way to hedge. Strategically diversifying a portfolio to reduce certain risks can also be considered a hedge, albeit a somewhat crude one. For example, Rachel might invest in a luxury goods company with rising margins. She might worry, though, that a recession could wipe out the market for conspicuous consumption. One way to combat that would be to buy tobacco stocks or utilities, which tend to weather recessions well and pay hefty dividends.



This strategy has its tradeoffs: If wages are high and jobs are plentiful, the luxury goods maker might thrive, but few investors would be attracted to boring countercyclical stocks, which might fall as capital flows to more exciting places. It also has its risks: There is no guarantee that the luxury goods stock and the hedge will move in opposite directions. They could both drop due to one catastrophic event, as happened during the financial crisis, or for two unrelated reasons.


   Spread Hedging  

In the index space, moderate price declines are quite common and highly unpredictable. Investors focusing on this area may be more concerned with moderate declines than with more severe ones. In these cases, a bear put spread is a common hedging strategy.



In this type of spread, the index investor buys a put that has a higher strike price. Next, she sells a put with a lower strike price but the same expiration date. Depending on how the index behaves, the investor thus has a degree of price protection equal to the difference between the two strike prices (minus the cost). While this is likely to be a moderate amount of protection, it is often sufficient to cover a brief downturn in the index.


   Risks of Hedging  

Hedging is a technique used to reduce risk, but it’s important to keep in mind that nearly every hedging practice will have its own downsides. First, as indicated above, hedging is imperfect and is not a guarantee of future success, nor does it ensure that any losses will be mitigated. Rather, investors should think of hedging in terms of pros and cons.






Do the gains of a hedging strategy outweigh the added expense it requires? It’s worth remembering that a successful hedge is often designed only to prevents losses, so gains alone may not be sufficient measure of benefit. While many hedge funds do make money, hedging strategies are usually employed in combination with primary investing strategies.


   Hedging and the Everyday Investor  

For most investors, hedging will never come into play in their financial activities. Many investors are unlikely to trade a derivative contract at any point. Part of the reason for this is that investors with a long-term strategy, such as individuals saving for retirement, tend to ignore the day-to-day fluctuations of a given security. In these cases, short-term fluctuations are not critical because an investment will likely grow with the overall market.



For investors who fall into the buy-and-hold category, there may seem to be little to no reason to learn about hedging at all. Still, because large companies and investment funds tend to engage in hedging practices on a regular basis, and because these investors might follow or even be involved with these larger financial entities, it’s useful to understand what hedging entails to better be able to track and comprehend the actions of these larger players.




What Is Hedging Against Risk?
Hedging is a strategy that tries to limit risks in financial assets. It uses financial instruments or market strategies to offset the risk of any adverse price movements. Put another way, investors hedge one investment by making a trade in another.




What Are Some Examples of Hedging?
Purchasing insurance against property losses, using derivatives such as options or futures to offset losses in underlying investment assets, or opening new foreign exchange positions to limit losses from fluctuations in existing currency holdings while retaining some upside potential are all examples of hedging. 




Is Hedging an Imperfect Science?
In investing, hedging is complex and thought of as an imperfect science. A perfect hedge is one that eliminates all risk in a position or portfolio. In other words, the hedge is 100% inversely correlated to the vulnerable asset. But even the hypothetical perfect hedge is not without cost.


   The Bottom Line  

Hedging is an important financial concept that allows investors and traders to minimize various risk exposures that they face. A hedge is effectively an offsetting or opposite position taken that will gain (lose) in value as the primary position loses (gains) value. A hedge can therefore be thought of as buying a sort of insurance policy on an investment or portfolio. These offsetting positions can be achieved using closely-related assets or through diversification. The most common and effective hedge, however, is often the use of a derivative such as a futures, forward. or options contract.
What Is Hedge Accounting?  

Hedge accounting is a method of accounting in which entries to adjust the fair value of a security and its opposing hedge are treated as one. Hedge accounting attempts to reduce the volatility created by the repeated adjustment to a financial instrument's value, known as fair value accounting or mark to market. This volatility is reduced by combining the instrument and the hedge as one entry, which offsets the opposing's movements.





Key Takeaways

Hedge accounting uses one entry to adjust the fair value of a security and its opposing hedge.The purpose of a hedge is to reduce volatility associated with value fluctuations on an investment that is not directly related to the investment's performance.There are three categories of hedge accounting: fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, and net investment hedges.


   Understanding Hedge Accounting  

A hedge fund is used to lower the risk of overall losses by assuming an offsetting position in relation to a particular security. The purpose of the hedge fund account is not necessarily to generate profit but instead to lessen the impact of associated losses, especially those attributed to interest rate, exchange rate, or commodity risk. This helps lower the perceived volatility associated with an investment by compensating for changes that are not purely reflective of an investment's performance.



The point of hedging a position is to reduce the volatility of the overall portfolio. Hedge accounting has the same effect except that it is used on financial statements. For example, when accounting for complex financial instruments, adjusting the value of the instrument to fair value creates large swings in profit and loss. Hedge accounting treats the changes in market value of the reciprocal hedge and the original security as one entry so that large swings are reduced.



Hedge accounting is used in corporate bookkeeping as it relates to derivatives. In order to lessen overall risk, derivatives are often used to offset the risks associated with a security. Hedge accounting uses the information from the security and the associated derivative as a single item, lessening the appearance of volatility when compared to reporting each individually.


   Recording Hedge Accounting  

Hedge accounting is an alternative to more traditional accounting methods for recording gains and losses. When treating the items individually, such as a security and its associated hedge fund, the gains or losses of each would be displayed individually. Since the purpose of the hedge fund is to offset the risks associated with the security, hedge accounting treats the two line items as one. Instead of listing one transaction of a gain and one of a loss, the two are examined to determine if there was an overall gain or loss between them and just the net amount is recorded.





Important

This approach can make financial statements simpler, as they will have fewer line items, but some potential for deception exists since the details are not recorded individually.




What are the Three Different Hedge Accounting Models?
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) topic 815 addresses derivatives and hedging. There are three categories of hedge accounting described in ASC 815:Fair value hedgesCash flow hedgesNet investment hedges




What Is a Fair Value Hedge?
A fair value hedge is used to hedge against a company's exposure to volatility and changes in the fair value of an asset or liability. In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the potential changes in the asset or liability's fair value must have the potential to affect the company's reported earnings. Examples of items that may qualify for fair value hedging include inventory and assets or liabilities denominated in a foreign currency.




What Is a Cash Flow Hedge?
A cash flow hedge is used to reduce the exposure to volatility of cash flows from an existing asset or liability or a forecasted transaction. In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the potential changes in cash flows from the asset, liability, or future transaction must have the potential to affect the company's reported earnings. Examples of items that may qualify for cash flow hedging include variable interest rate assets or liabilities, assets or liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, forecasted purchases or sales, and forecasted debt issuances.




What is a Net Investment Hedge?
A net investment hedge is used to hedge a company's foreign currency exposure and reduce the potential reported earnings risk that may occur upon the future disposition of a net investment in a foreign operation.


   The Bottom Line  

FASB's changes in the updated ASC 815 made the use of hedge accounting easier for companies to adopt, but that doesn't mean it's easy. Even with the changes, hedge accounting can still be complex, and some companies may not use it because it's perceived as more difficult than other accounting topics, according to Gautam Goswami, CPA, national assurance partner at BDO.
What Is a Hedge Clause?  

A hedge clause is included in a research report to attempt to absolve the writer of any responsibility for the accuracy of the information included in the report or publication. The hedge clause indemnifies the author(s) against responsibility for any errors, omissions, or oversights contained within the document. Hedge clauses can be found in analyst reports, company press releases, and most investing websites.



Examples of a hedge clause are a disclaimer and a safe harbor notice.





Key Takeaways

A hedge clause refers to text added to industry research or analysts' reports that serve as a disclaimer.The hedge clause absolves the author(s) of the report from any responsibility due to errors or omissions.Hedge clauses must be carefully worded so that they do not transgress regulatory rules around securities fraud and making false claims.


   Understanding Hedge Clauses  

Hedge clauses are meant to protect those who communicate but do not have a role in the recording or preparation of an organization's financial information. Though hedge clauses are frequently overlooked, investors are advised to review them in order to better judge and interpret the material in a publication. Investors will find hedge clauses in nearly every financial report published today, and even though they are often glossed over, they are very important for investors to read and understand.



An example is the "safe harbor" provision found in most company press releases. Potential conflicts of interest from, for example, a stock analyst writing a recommendation for one's own holdings, must also be included in the hedge clause for that report.


   Typical Hedge Clause Structure  

A typical “hedge clause” in an investment advisory contract or hedge fund limited partnership/limited liability company agreement is structured as an exculpation of the adviser from liability and/or as indemnification of the adviser by the advisory client unless the adviser has been grossly negligent or has engaged in reckless or willful misconduct, illegal acts or acts outside the scope of its authority.



Often, hedge clauses are followed by “non-waiver disclosure” that explains that the client may have certain legal rights, generally arising under federal and state securities laws, notwithstanding the hedge clauses that have not been waived.


   Securities and Exchange Commission Position on Hedge Clauses  

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has stated that Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act make it unlawful for any investment adviser to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud, or to engage in any transaction, practice or course of business that operates as fraud or deceit on clients or prospective clients.



Those antifraud provisions may be violated by the use of a hedge clause or other exculpatory provision in an investment advisory agreement, which is likely to lead an investment advisory client to believe that they have waived non-waivable rights of action against the adviser.



The SEC has previously taken the position that hedge clauses that purport to limit an investment adviser’s liability to acts involving gross negligence or willful malfeasance are likely to mislead a client who is unsophisticated in the law into believing that they have waived non-waivable rights, even if the hedge clause explicitly provides that rights under federal or state law cannot be relinquished.
What Is a Hedge Fund?  

A hedge fund is a limited partnership of private investors whose money is managed by professional fund managers who use a wide range of strategies, including leveraging or trading of non-traditional assets, to earn above-average investment returns.



Hedge fund investment is often considered a risky alternative investment choice and usually requires a high minimum investment or net worth, often targeting wealthy clients.





Key Takeaways

Hedge funds are actively managed alternative investments that commonly use risky investment strategies.Hedge fund investment requires a high minimum investment or net worth from accredited investors.Hedge funds charge higher fees than conventional investment funds.Common hedge fund strategies depend on the fund manager and include equity, fixed-income, and event-driven goals.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding the Hedge Fund  

The term "hedge fund" defines this investment instrument as the manager of the fund often creating a hedged bet by investing a portion of assets in the opposite direction of the fund's focus to offset any losses in its core holdings.



A hedge fund that focuses on a cyclical sector such as travel, may invest a portion of its assets in a non-cyclical sector such as energy, aiming to use the returns of the non-cyclical stocks to offset any losses in cyclical stocks.



Hedge funds use riskier strategies, leverage assets, and invest in derivatives such as options and futures. The appeal of many hedge funds lies in the reputation of their managers in the closed world of hedge fund investing.



An investor in a hedge fund is commonly regarded as an accredited investor, which requires a minimum level of income or assets. Typical investors include institutional investors, such as pension funds, insurance companies, and wealthy individuals.



Investments in hedge funds are considered illiquid as they often require investors to keep their money in the fund for at least one year, a time known as the lock-up period. Withdrawals may also only happen at certain intervals such as quarterly or bi-annually.


   Types of Hedge Funds  

Hedge funds target select investments and pools of securities primed for gains. Four common types of hedge funds include:



Global macro hedge funds are actively managed funds that attempt to profit from broad market swings caused by political or economic events.
An equity hedge fund may be global or specific to one country, investing in lucrative stocks while hedging against downturns in equity markets by shorting overvalued stocks or stock indices.
A relative value hedge fund seeks to exploit temporary differences in the prices of related securities, taking advantage of price or spread inefficiencies.
An activist hedge fund aims to invest in businesses and take actions that boost the stock price which may include demands that companies cut costs, restructure assets or change the board of directors.


   Common Hedge Fund Strategies  

Hedge fund strategies cover a broad range of risk tolerance and investment philosophies using a large selection of investments, including debt and equity securities, commodities, currencies, derivatives, and real estate.



Common hedge fund strategies are classified according to the investment style of the fund's manager and include equity, fixed-income, and event-driven goals.



A long/short hedge fund strategy is an extension of pairs trading, in which investors go long and short on two competing companies in the same industry based on their relative valuations.



A fixed-income hedge fund strategy gives investors solid returns, with minimal monthly volatility and aims for capital preservation taking both long and short positions in fixed-income securities.



An event-driven hedge fund strategy takes advantage of temporary stock mispricing, spawned by corporate events like restructurings, mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcy, or takeovers.


   How Do Hedge Funds Make Money?  

Australian investor Alfred Winslow Jones is credited with launching the first hedge fund in 1949 through his company, A.W. Jones & Co. Raising $100,000, he designed a fund that aimed to minimize the risk in long-term stock investing by short-selling, now referred to as the long/short equities model.



In 1952, Jones converted his fund to a limited partnership, added a 20% incentive fee as compensation for the managing partner, and became the first money manager to combine short selling, the use of leverage, and a compensation system based on performance.



Today, hedge funds employ a standard "2 and 20" fee system, a 2% management fee, and a 20% performance fee.



The management fee is based on the net asset value of each investor's shares, so an investment of $1 million garners a $20,000 management fee that year to cover the operations of the hedge and compensate the fund manager.



The performance fee is commonly 20% of profits. If an investment of $1 million increases to $1.2 million in one year, $40,000 is the fee owed to the fund.


   Hedge Fund vs. Mutual Fund  

Hedge funds differ from mutual funds and hedge funds are not as strictly regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as mutual funds are.



Mutual funds are a practical cost-efficient way to build a diversified portfolio of stocks, bonds, or short-term investments and are available to the general public and average investor.



Hedge funds can only accept money from accredited investors which includes individuals with an annual income that exceeds $200,000 or a net worth exceeding $1 million, excluding their primary residence. These investors are considered suitable to handle the potential risks that hedge funds are permitted to take. 



A hedge fund can invest in land, real estate, stocks, derivatives, and currencies while mutual funds use stocks or bonds as their instruments for long-term investment strategies.



Unlike mutual funds where an investor can elect to sell shares at any time, hedge funds typically limit opportunities to redeem shares and often impose a locked period of one year before shares can be cashed in.



Hedge funds employ the 2% management fee and 20% performance fee structure. In 2021, the average expense ratio across all mutual funds and exchange-traded funds was 0.40% for the average investor.


   What to Consider Before Investing  

As investors research to identify hedge funds that meet their investment goals, they often consider the fund or firm's size, the track record and longevity of the fund, the minimum investment required to participate, and the redemption terms of the fund. Hedge funds operate in many countries including the U.S., United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Canada, and France.



According to the SEC, investors should also do the following when deciding to invest in a hedge fund:



Read the hedge fund’s documents and agreements which contain information about investing in the fund, the strategies of the fund, the location of the fund, and the risks anticipated by the investment.Understand the level of risk involved in the fund’s investment strategies and that they equate with personal investing goals, time horizons, and risk tolerance. Determine if the fund is using leverage or speculative investment techniques which will typically invest both the investors’ capital and the borrowed money to make investments.Evaluate potential conflicts of interest disclosed by hedge fund managers and research the background and reputation of the hedge fund managers.Understand how a fund’s assets are valued as hedge funds may invest in highly illiquid securities and valuations of fund assets will affect the fees that the manager charges.Understand how a fund's performance is determined and whether it reflects cash or assets received by the fund as opposed to the manager’s estimate of the change in the value.Understand any limitations to time restrictions imposed to redeem shares.


   Examples of Hedge Funds  

As of 2022, the most notable hedge funds include:



Elliot Management Corporation with a 55-year-long history and over $50 billion in assets under management (AUM). Its core holdings are in the energy sector.Bridgewater Associates is a global leader, with more than $235 billion in assets AUM, and a rate of return of 32% for the first half of 2022.



• Man Group offers a mix of long/short equity funds, private market funds, real estate funds, multi-asset funds, and fixed funds and its core value is responsible investing, which it achieves through its funds’ compliance with environmental, social, and governance ESG investing goals.




What Tools Do Investors Use to Compare the Performance of Hedge Funds?
Investors look at the annualized rate of return to compare funds and reveal funds with high expected returns. To establish guidelines for a specific strategy, an investor can use an analytical software package such as Morningstar to identify a universe of funds using similar strategies. 




How Do Hedge Funds Compare to Other Investments?
Hedge funds, mutual funds, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) all are pools of money contributed by many investors that aim to earn a profit for themselves and their clients.Hedge funds are actively managed by professional managers who buy and sell certain investments with the stated aim of exceeding the returns of the markets, or some sector or index of the markets. Hedge funds aim for the greatest possible returns and take the greatest risks while trying to achieve them. They are more loosely regulated than competing products, with the flexibility to invest in options and derivatives and esoteric investments that mutual funds cannot.




Why Do People Invest in Hedge Funds?
A wealthy individual who can afford to diversify into a hedge fund might be attracted to the reputation of its manager, the specific assets in which the fund is invested, or the unique strategy that it employs.


   The Bottom Line  

Hedge fund investment is considered a risky alternative investment choice and requires a high minimum investment or net worth from accredited investors. Hedge fund strategies include investment in debt and equity securities, commodities, currencies, derivatives, and real estate. Hedge funds are loosely regulated by the SEC and earn money from their 2% management fee and 20% performance fee structure.
What is a Hedge Fund Manager?  

A hedge fund manager is firm or an individual who manages, makes investment decisions, and oversees the operations of a hedge fund. Managing a hedge fund can be an attractive career option because of its potential to be extremely lucrative. To be successful, a hedge fund manager must consider how to have a competitive advantage, a clearly defined investment strategy, adequate capitalization, a marketing and sales plan, and a risk management strategy.





Key Takeaways

A hedge fund manager is a financial company or individual that employs professional portfolio managers and analysts in order to establish hedge funds.Hedge fund managers typically earn above average compensation, often from a two-and-twenty fee structure from investors.Hedge fund managers typically specialize in a particular investment strategy that they then use as their fund portfolio's mandate.


   Understanding a Hedge Fund Manager  

Hedge fund management firms are often owned by the managers in charge of the portfolio, meaning that they are entitled to a large amount of the profits that the hedge fund makes. When entering into a hedge fund, investors fund the management fees that cover the operating expenses, as well as performance fees that are usually distributed to the owners as profit. What sets hedge fund managers apart from other types of fund management is the fact that the personal worth and funds of hedge fund managers are usually tied directly to the fund itself.



Individuals wishing to invest in hedge funds must meet income and net worth requirements. Hedge funds can be considered high risk because they pursue aggressive investment strategies and are less regulated than many other types of investments. 



Top hedge fund managers hold some of the most well-paid positions in any industry, far outpacing CEOs of major companies. Some of the highest-grossing managers make close to $4 billion a year. Hedge fund managers have the potential to be some of the highest-paid executives in the financial industry if they stay competitive and always come out as winners, however, some hedge fund managers do not make nearly as much as the top paid managers because if they fail at all in their financial endeavors, they will not be paid.


   Hedge Fund Strategies  

Hedge fund managers can use multiple strategies to maximize returns for their firms and clients. One popular strategy is using something called global macro investing. The idea is to invest in tandem with a large share or sizable position in markets that are dealing with predicting global macroeconomic trends. This type of strategy used by hedge fund managers gives them the necessary flexibility they need, but the strategy is heavily dependent on excellent timing.



Another popular tactic that has made multiple hedge fund managers billionaires is an event-driven strategy. This means that the managers are looking for large opportunities to capitalize in a corporate environment. Examples of this include mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcies and shareholder buyback initiatives. Managers working on this strategy are capitalizing on any market inconsistencies, similar to using a value investing approach. Hedge fund managers usually go this route because of the vast resources they have behind them.


   Hedge Fund Manager Compensation  

Two and twenty (or "2 and 20") is a typical fee arrangement that is standard in the hedge fund industry and is also common in venture capital and private equity. Hedge fund management companies typically charge clients both a management and a performance fee. "Two" means 2% of assets under management (AUM), and refers to the annual management fee charged by the hedge fund for managing assets. "Twenty" refers to the standard performance or incentive fee of 20% of profits made by the fund above a certain predefined benchmark. While this lucrative fee arrangement has resulted in many hedge fund managers becoming extremely wealthy, in recent years the fee structure has come under fire from investors and politicians for varying reasons.



Some hedge funds also have to contend with a high watermark that is applicable to their performance fee. A high watermark policy specifies that the fund manager will only be paid a percentage of the profits if the fund's net value exceeds its previous highest value. This precludes the fund manager from being paid large sums for poor performance and ensures that any losses must be made up before performance fees are paid out.
What Is the Hedge Ratio?  

The hedge ratio compares the value of a position protected through the use of a hedge with the size of the entire position itself. A hedge ratio may also be a comparison of the value of futures contracts purchased or sold to the value of the cash commodity being hedged.



Futures contracts are essentially investment vehicles that let the investor lock in a price for a physical asset at some point in the future.






The hedge ratio is the hedged position divided by the total position.


   How the Hedge Ratio Works  

Imagine you are holding $10,000 in foreign equity, which exposes you to currency risk. You could enter into a hedge to protect against losses in this position, which can be constructed through a variety of positions to take an offsetting position to the foreign equity investment.



If you hedge $5,000 worth of the equity with a currency position, your hedge ratio is 0.5 ($5,000 / $10,000). This means that 50% of your foreign equity investment is sheltered from currency risk.


   Types of Hedge Ratio  

The minimum variance hedge ratio is important when cross-hedging, which aims to minimize the variance of the position's value. The minimum variance hedge ratio, or optimal hedge ratio, is an important factor in determining the optimal number of futures contracts to purchase to hedge a position.



It is calculated as the product of the correlation coefficient between the changes in the spot and futures prices and the ratio of the standard deviation of the changes in the spot price to the standard deviation of the futures price. After calculating the optimal hedge ratio, the optimal number of contracts needed to hedge a position is calculated by dividing the product of the optimal hedge ratio and the units of the position being hedged by the size of one futures contract.





Key Takeaways

The hedge ratio compares the amount of a position that is hedged to the entire position. The minimum variance hedge ratio helps determine the optimal number of options contracts needed to hedge a position. The minimum variance hedge ratio is important in cross-hedging, which aims to minimize the variance of a position's value.


   Example of the Hedge Ratio  

Assume that an airline company fears that the price of jet fuel will rise after the crude oil market has been trading at depressed levels. The airline company expects to purchase 15 million gallons of jet fuel over the next year, and wishes to hedge its purchase price. Assume that the correlation between crude oil futures and the spot price of jet fuel is 0.95, which is a high degree of correlation.



Further assume the standard deviation of crude oil futures and spot jet fuel price is 6% and 3%, respectively. Therefore, the minimum variance hedge ratio is 0.475, or (0.95 * (3% / 6%)). The NYMEX Western Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil futures contract has a contract size of 1,000 barrels or 42,000 gallons. The optimal number of contracts is calculated to be 170 contracts, or (0.475 * 15 million) / 42,000. Therefore, the airline company would purchase 170 NYMEX WTI crude oil futures contracts.
What is Hedged Tender?  

A hedged tender is an investment strategy where an investor sells short a portion of shares they own in anticipation that not all shares tendered will be accepted. This strategy is used to protect against the risk of loss, in case the tender offer does not go through. The offer locks in the shareholder's profit no matter the outcome of the tender offer.





Key Takeaways

A hedged tender is a way to counteract the risk that the offering company refuses some or all of an investor's shares that are submitted as part of a tender offer.A tender offer is a proposal from one investor or company to purchase a set number of shares of another company's stock at a price that is higher than the current market price.


   How a Hedged Tender Works  

A hedged tender is a way to counteract the risk that the offering company refuses some or all of an investor's shares that are submitted as part of a tender offer. A tender offer is a proposal from one investor or company to purchase a set number of shares of another company's stock at a price that is higher than the current market price.


   Hedged Tender as Insurance  

A hedged tender strategy, or any type of hedging, is a form of insurance. Hedging in a business context or in a portfolio is about decreasing or transferring risk. Consider that a corporation may want to hedge against currency risk, so it decides to build a factory in another country that it exports its product to. 



Investors hedge because they want to protect their assets against a negative market event that causes their assets to depreciate. Hedging may imply a cautious approach, but many of the most aggressive investors use hedging strategies to increase their opportunities for positive returns. By mitigating risk in one part of a portfolio, an investor can often take on more risk elsewhere, increasing their absolute returns while putting less capital at risk in each individual investment.



Another way to look at it is hedging against investment risk means strategically using market instruments to offset the risk of any adverse price movements. In other words, investors hedge one investment by making another.


   Example of a Hedged Tender  

An example would be if an investor has 5,000 shares of Company ABC. An acquiring company then submits a tender offer of $100 per share for 50% of the target company when the shares are worth $80. The investor then anticipates that in a tender of all 5,000 shares the bidder would accept only 2,500 pro-rata. So, the investor determines that the best strategy would be to sell 2,500 shares short after the announcement and when the price of the stock approaches $100. Company ABC then buys only 2,500 of the original shares at $100. In the end, the investor has sold all shares at $100 even as the price of the stock drops following news of the potential transaction.
What Is a Hedging Transaction?  

A hedging transaction is a tactical action that an investor takes with the intent of reducing the risk of losing money (or experiencing a shortfall) while executing their investment strategy.





Key Takeaways

A hedging transaction is a tactical action that an investor takes with the intent of reducing the risk of losing money (or experiencing a shortfall) while executing their investment strategy.Hedging transactions usually involve derivatives, such as options, futures or forward contracts, to reduce the risk of investments.More sophisticated hedging can take place using inversely correlated securities.


   Understanding Hedging Transactions  

A hedging transaction usually involves derivatives, such as options or futures contracts, but it can be done with inversely correlated assets as well and can take many different forms. While they are generally used to limit the losses that a position faces if the initial investing thesis is incorrect, they can also be used to lock in a specific amount of profit. As such, they are a common tool for businesses as well as portfolio managers looking to lower their overall portfolio risk.



Hedging transactions can be related to an investment or they can be related to regular business transactions, but the hedge itself is usually market-based. An investment-based hedging transaction can use derivatives, such as put options, futures, or forward contracts.



These derivatives function very similarly to the dynamics of an insurance policy. Those who purchase a derivative for the purpose of hedging pay a premium. If something goes wrong with the strategic investment, the insurance policy—a tactical hedge—pays off, but if nothing goes wrong, the hedge is a sunk cost. These costs are often much lower than the potential losses facing these investors if their investment goes awry, and if the investment pays off as hoped, these sunk costs are often considered acceptable by the investor.



One problem with thinking of hedging transactions strictly as insurance is that, unlike insurance, there exists a third possibility often unaccounted for by inexperienced investors, namely, that the investment rises in value, but by only a small amount. In that scenario, the investor may find that the small gain has become a loss when the cost of the hedging transaction is taken into account.



Investors can also use the purchase of inversely correlated assets to act as a hedge against overall portfolio risks presented from one asset or the other. For example, investors look for stocks that have a low correlation with the S&P 500 to get some level of protection from dips in the value of the widely held stocks that make up the index. These types of hedging transactions are often referred to as diversification as they do not offer the direct protection that derivatives do.


   Hedging Transactions in Global Business  

Hedging transactions are critical for the global economy. For example, if domestic company A is selling goods to foreign company B, the first transaction is the sale. Let's say the sale is going to be settled in the currency of company B. If company A is worried about currency fluctuations affecting the value of the contract when the money actually comes in and is converted to company A's domestic currency, they can enter a hedging transaction through the foreign exchange market, taking up offsetting positions that minimize the currency risk.   



It is worth noting that hedging transactions do not necessarily cover the total value of the sale or asset position. While a perfect hedge is mathematically possible, they are almost never employed because such a transaction proves more costly than desired. This can be for one of two reasons:



Eliminating all the risk takes away a lot of the reward. In hedging transactions, investors are trying to limit the downside risk, but not eliminate the upside gains. It may cost more time and expense to calculate, monitor, and execute a perfect hedge than the cost of accepting limited losses.
What Is Hedonic Pricing?  

Hedonic pricing is a model that identifies price factors according to the premise that price is determined both by internal characteristics of the good being sold and external factors affecting it.



A hedonic pricing model is often used to estimate quantitative values for environmental or ecosystem services that directly affect market prices for homes. This method of valuation can require a strong degree of statistical expertise and model specification, following a period of data collection.





Key Takeaways

Hedonic pricing identifies the internal and external factors and characteristics that affect an item’s price in the market.Hedonic pricing is most often seen in the housing market, since real estate prices are determined by the characteristics of the property itself as well as the neighborhood or environment within which it exists.Hedonic pricing captures a consumer’s willingness to pay for what they perceive are environmental differences that add or detract from the intrinsic value of an asset or property.


   Understanding Hedonic Pricing  

The most common example of the hedonic pricing method is in the real estate market, wherein the price of a building or piece of land is determined by the characteristics of both the property itself (i.e. internal factors like its size, appearance, features like solar panels or state-of-the-art faucet fixtures, and condition), as well as characteristics of its surrounding environment (i.e. external factors such as if the neighborhood has a high crime rate and/or is accessible to schools and a downtown area, the level of water and air pollution, or the value of other homes close by).



The hedonic pricing model is used to estimate the extent to which each factor affects the market price of the property. When running this type of model, if non-environmental factors are controlled for (held steady), any remaining discrepancies in price will represent differences in the good’s external surroundings. With regards to valuing properties, a hedonic pricing model is relatively straightforward as relies on actual market prices and comprehensive, available data sets.






Hedonic pricing is used to determine the extent that environmental or ecosystem factors affect the price of a good—usually a home.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Hedonic Pricing  

The hedonic pricing model has many advantages, including the ability to estimate values, based on concrete choices, particularly when applied to property markets with readily available, accurate data. At the same time, the method is flexible enough to be adapted to relationships among other market goods and external factors.



Hedonic pricing also has significant drawbacks, including its ability to only capture consumers’ willingness to pay for what they perceive are environmental differences and their resulting consequences. For example, if potential buyers are not aware of a contaminated water supply or impending early morning construction next door, the price of the property in question will not change accordingly. Hedonic pricing also does not always incorporate external factors or regulations, such as taxes and interest rates, which could also have a significant impact on prices.


   Example of Hedonic Pricing  

Consider home prices, which are an easy way t value certain environmental aspects. For example, a home close to parks or schools may sell for a premium. Meanwhile, a home right on a major highway may sell for less. Hedonic pricing uses regression to see which factors matter the most and each’s relative importance.



For the home price example, the price of the home would be analyzed based on independent variables, such as distance from a park. With that, the result would appear something along the lines of, for every mile closer to a park the home value increases by $10,000.






Labor economist Sherwin Rosen first presented a theory of hedonic pricing in 1974 in a paper entitled “Hedonic Pricing and Implicit Markets: Product Differentiation in Pure Competition."
What Is Hedonic Regression?  

Hedonic regression is the use of a regression model to estimate the influence that various factors have on the price of a good, or sometimes the demand for a good. In a hedonic regression model, the dependent variable is the price (or demand) of the good, and the independent variables are the attributes of the good believed to influence utility for the buyer or consumer of the good. The resulting estimated coefficients on the independent variables can be interpreted as the weights that buyers place on the various qualities of the good.





Key Takeaways

Hedonic regression is the application of regression analysis to estimate the impact that various factors have on the price or demand for a good. In a hedonic regression model, a price is usually the dependent variable and the attributes that are believed to provide utility to the buyer or consumer are the independent variables. Hedonic regression is commonly used in real estate pricing and quality adjustment for price indexes.


   Understanding Hedonic Regression  

Hedonic regression is used in hedonic pricing models and is commonly applied in real estate, retail, and economics. Hedonic pricing is a revealed-preference method used in economics and consumer science to determine the relative importance of the variables which affect the price of or demand for a good or service. For example, if the price of a house is determined by different characteristics, like the number of bedrooms, the number of bathrooms, proximity to schools, etc., regression analysis can be used to determine the relative importance of each variable. 



The hedonic pricing regression uses ordinary least squares, or more advanced regression techniques, to estimate the extent to which several factors affect the price of a product or a piece of real estate, like a house. The price is defined as the dependent variable and is regressed on a set of independent variables that are believed to influence the price, based on economic theory, the investigator's intuition, or consumer research. Alternatively, an inductive approach, such as data mining, can be used to screen and determine the variables to include in the model. The selected characteristics (called attributes) of the good may be represented as continuous or dummy variables.


   Applications of Hedonic Regression  

The most common example of the hedonic pricing method is in the housing market, wherein the price of a building or piece of land is determined by the characteristics of the property itself (e.g., size, appearance, features like solar panels or state-of-the-art faucet fixtures, and condition), as well as characteristics of its surrounding environment (e.g., if the neighborhood has a high crime rate and/or is accessible to schools and a downtown area, the level of water and air pollution, or the value of other homes close by).






The price of any given house can be predicted by plugging the attributes of that house into the estimated equation for hedonic regression. 



Hedonic regression is also used in consumer price index (CPI) calculations to control for the effect of changes in product quality. The price of any good in the CPI basket can be modeled as a function of a set of attributes, and when one (or more) of these attributes changes, the estimated impact on the price can be calculated. The hedonic quality adjustment method removes any price differential attributed to a change in quality by adding or subtracting the estimated value of that change from the price of the item.


   Origin of Hedonics  

In 1974, Sherwin Rosen first presented a theory of hedonic pricing in his paper, "Hedonic Pricing and Implicit Markets: Product Differentiation in Pure Competition," affiliated with the University of Rochester and Harvard University. In the publication, Rosen argues that an item's total price can be thought of as a sum of the price of each of its homogeneous attributes. An item's price can also be regressed on these unique characteristics to determine the effect of each characteristic on its price.

What Is the Heikin-Ashi Technique?  

The Heikin-Ashi technique averages price data to create a Japanese candlestick chart that filters out market noise. 



Heikin-Ashi charts, developed by Munehisa Homma in the 1700s, share some characteristics with standard candlestick charts but differ based on the values used to create each candle. Instead of using the open, high, low, and close like standard candlestick charts, the Heikin-Ashi technique uses a modified formula based on two-period averages. This gives the chart a smoother appearance, making it easier to spots trends and reversals, but also obscures gaps and some price data.





Key Takeaways

Heikin-Ashi is a candlestick pattern technique that aims to reduce some of the market noise, creating a chart that highlights trend direction better than typical candlestick charts.The downside to Heikin-Ashi is that some price data is lost with averaging, which could affect risk.Long down candles with little upper shadow represent strong selling pressure, while long up candles with small or no lower shadows signal strong buying pressure.


   The Formula for the Heikin-Ashi Technique Is:  

﻿















Heikin-Ashi Close


=





Open


0



+



High


0



+



Low


0



+



Close


0





4


















Heikin-Ashi Open


=





HA Open



−


1




+



HA Close



−


1






2


















Heikin-Ashi High


=


Max 


(



High


0



,



HA Open


0



,



HA Close


0



)
















Heikin-Ashi Low


=


Min 


(



Low


0



,



HA Open


0



,



HA Close


0



)
















where:

















Open


0



 etc.


=


Values from the current period

















Open



−


1




 etc.


=


Values from the prior period
















HA


=


Heikin-Ashi








\begin{aligned} &\text{Heikin-Ashi Close} = \frac{ \text{Open}_0 + \text{High}_0 + \text{Low}_0 + \text{Close}_0 }{ 4 } \\ &\text{Heikin-Ashi Open} = \frac{ \text{HA Open}_{-1} + \text{HA Close}_{-1} }{ 2 } \\ &\text{Heikin-Ashi High} = \text{Max } ( \text{High}_0, \text{HA Open}_0, \text{HA Close}_0 ) \\ &\text{Heikin-Ashi Low} = \text{Min } ( \text{Low}_0, \text{HA Open}_0, \text{HA Close}_0 ) \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Open}_0 \text{ etc.} = \text{Values from the current period} \\ &\text{Open}_{-1} \text{ etc.} = \text{Values from the prior period} \\ &\text{HA} = \text{Heikin-Ashi} \\ \end{aligned}


​Heikin-Ashi Close=4Open0​+High0​+Low0​+Close0​​Heikin-Ashi Open=2HA Open−1​+HA Close−1​​Heikin-Ashi High=Max (High0​,HA Open0​,HA Close0​)Heikin-Ashi Low=Min (Low0​,HA Open0​,HA Close0​)where:Open0​ etc.=Values from the current periodOpen−1​ etc.=Values from the prior periodHA=Heikin-Ashi​﻿


   How to Calculate Heikin-Ashi  

Use one period to create the first Heikin-Ashi (HA) candle, using the formulas. For example, use the high, low, open, and close to create the first HA close price. Use the open and close to create the first HA open. The high of the period will be the first HA high, and the low will be the first HA low.
With the first HA calculated, it is now possible to continue computing the HA candles per the formulas.
To calculate the next close, use the open, high, low, and close from that period.
To calculate the next open, use the prior open and prior close.
To calculate the next high, choose the max of the current period's high, or the current period's HA open or close.
To calculate the next low, choose the max of the current period's low, or the current period's HA open or close.
For steps five and six remember that the HA open and close are not the same as the period's open and close. The HA open and close were calculated in steps three and four.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   What Does Heikin-Ashi Tell You?  

The Heikin-Ashi technique is used by technical traders to identify a given trend more easily. Hollow white (or green) candles with no lower shadows are used to signal a strong uptrend, while filled black (or red) candles with no upper shadow are used to identify a strong downtrend.



Reversal candlesticks using the Heikin-Ashi technique are similar to traditional candlestick reversal patterns; they have small bodies and long upper and lower shadows. There are no gaps on a Heikin-Ashi chart as the current candle is calculated using information from the previous candle.



Because the Heikin-Ashi technique smooths price information over two periods, it makes trends, price patterns, and reversal points easier to spot. Candles on a traditional candlestick chart frequently change from up to down, which can make them difficult to interpret. Heikin-Ashi charts typically have more consecutive colored candles, helping traders to identify past price movements easily.



The Heikin-Ashi technique reduces false trading signals in sideways and choppy markets to help traders avoid placing trades during these times. For example, instead of getting two false reversal candles before a trend commences, a trader who uses the Heikin-Ashi technique is likely only to receive the valid signal.






   Heikin-Ashi vs. Renko Charts  

Heikin-Ashi charts are constructed based on averages over two periods. Renko charts, on the other hand, are created by only showing movements of a certain size.



While a Renko chart has a time axis, the boxes or bricks are not governed by time, only by movement. While a new HA candle will form every period, a Renko chart will only produce a new brick/box when the price has moved a certain amount.















Heikin-Ashi.
Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Limitations of the Heikin-Ashi Technique  

Since the Heikin-Ashi technique uses price information from two periods, a trade setup takes longer to develop. Usually, this is not an issue for swing traders who have time to let their trades play out. However, day traders who need to exploit quick price moves may find Heikin-Ashi charts are not responsive enough to be useful.



The averaged data also obscures important price information. Daily closing prices are considered important by many traders, yet the actual daily closing price is not seen on a Heikin-Ashi chart. The trader only sees the averaged HA closing value. In order to control risk, it is important the trader is aware of the actual price, and not just the HA averaged values.



Another important element in technical analysis that is missing from Heikin-Ashi charts is price gaps. Many traders use gaps for analyzing price momentum, setting stop-loss levels, or triggering entries.


   Example Using Heikin-Ashi Candlesticks  

Hieken-Ashi charts can be applied to any market and most charting platforms now have them included as a functionality.  There are five primary signals that identify trends and buying opportunities:



Hollow or green candles with no lower "shadows" indicate a strong uptrend: Let your profits ride!
Hollow or green candles signify an uptrend: You might want to add to your long position and exit short positions.
Candles with a small body surrounded by upper and lower shadows indicate a trend change: Risk-loving traders might buy or sell here, while others will wait for confirmation before going long or short.
Filled or red candles indicate a downtrend: You might want to add to your short position and exit long positions.
Filled or red candles with no higher shadows identify a strong downtrend: Stay short until there's a change in trend.



These signals may make locating trends or trading opportunities easier than with traditional candlesticks. The trends are not interrupted by false signals as often and are thus more easily spotted. 















Heikin-Ashi.
Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The chart example above shows how Heikin-Ashi charts can be used for analysis and making trading decisions. On the left, there are long red candles, and at the start of the decline, the lower wicks are quite small. As the price continues to drop, the lower wicks get longer, indicating that the price dropped but then was pushed back up. Buying pressure is starting to build. This is followed by a strong move to the upside. 



The upward move is strong and doesn't give major indications of a reversal, until there are several small candles in a row, with shadows on either side. This shows indecision. Traders can look at the bigger picture to help determine whether they should go long or short. 



The charts can also be used to keep a trader in a trade once a trend begins. It's usually best to stay in a trade until the Heikin-Ashi candles change color. However, a change of color doesn't always mean the end of a trend—it could just be a pause.
What Is an Heir?  

An heir is defined as an individual who is legally entitled to inherit some or all of the estate of another person who dies intestate, which means the deceased person failed to establish a legal last will and testament during their living years. In such a scenario, the heir receives property according to the laws of the state in which the property is probated.



Heirs who inherit property are typically children, descendants, or other close relatives of the decedent. Spouses typically are not legally considered to be heirs, as they are instead entitled to properties via marital or community property laws.





Key Takeaways

An heir is a person who is legally entitled to collect an inheritance when a deceased person did not formalize a last will and testament.Generally speaking, heirs who inherit the property are children, descendants, or other close relatives of the decedent. Legally speaking, heirs differ from beneficiaries, who are designated by a will or other written documents, as the intended recipient of a decedent's assets.The portion of a deceased person's estate that's bequeathed to an heir is known as an inheritance.When an individual dies without a will, it is known as intestate, and a probate court determines how the assets are distributed.


   Understanding Heir  

When there is more than one heir with the same relationship to the deceased, such as the case when there are two siblings, those individuals typically divide up the estate equally. The portion of a deceased person's estate that's bequeathed to an heir is known as an inheritance. This can involve cash, stocks, bonds, real estate, and other personal property such as automobiles, furniture, antiques, artwork, and jewelry.



There are many specific types of heirs, including the following:



An heir apparent: This describes a person who is widely assumed to receive the inheritance.A presumptive heir: This describes a person who under present circumstances, would be considered to be an heir, but whose right of inheritance may be defeated by the contingency of a more recently-born individual.Adoptive heir: This refers to a legally adopted child who has the same rights as the biological children of the parents.A collateral heir: This describes a relative who isn't a direct descendant, but is nevertheless a family member.


   Intestate  

When an individual dies without a will, it is known as intestate. It can also refer to a situation when the will is considered to be invalid. The manner in which the deceased's assets will be distributed in intestacy will be decided by a probate court.



When a person dies without a will a court administrator will oversee the deceased's estate. They will gather all assets, pay off any liabilities, and distribute the remaining assets to the individuals considered to be the beneficiaries of the deceased; the heirs-at-law. The probate process is determined by state law.



The remaining assets are passed to the beneficiaries via intestate succession, determining the hierarchy of how the assets will be given. The intestate succession starts with the deceased's spouse, then the children, and then the grandchildren. If no living family or heirs-at-law can be located, the assets will go to the state.


   Heir vs. Beneficiary  

While the term "heir" legally refers to a person who receives the property of an individual who died intestate, in common parlance, the word "heir" is often used to describe those inheriting property, as designated by a will; however, strictly speaking, this usage of the word is factually inaccurate, as the proper term for such an individual is a "beneficiary," which legally defines an individual who is entitled to collect the property, as prescribed by a will, trust, insurance policy, or another binding arrangement.






Traditionally speaking, Jewish, Christian, and Islamic laws each have their own sets of customs when it comes to heirs.



Not all heirs are beneficiaries, such as in the case of an estranged adult child who is intentionally left out of a will. Likewise, not all beneficiaries are heirs. For example, a person can designate a friend or companion to receive property.



In this case, the friend is not an heir, because he would not be the recipient of property if left intestate, because he is not a child or direct relative of the decedent; however, that friend can accurately be called a beneficiary, as designated through the deceased person's will or another arrangement. A female heir is often referred to as an heiress, particularly if the inheritance involves substantial wealth.


   Real World Examples  
  Rockefeller Family  

The Rockefeller family is one of the most famous families in the world. The wealth was accumulated by John D. Rockefeller through his business in the oil industry. Though he gave a significant portion of his wealth to charity, his heirs were his two surviving children at the time of his death: Alta Rockefeller and John D. Rockefeller Jr.



Both children during and after Rockefeller's lifetime received a significant portion of his wealth as his heirs; wealth that has continued to be passed down to family members. Though technically a beneficiary, being the only son of Rockefeller, Jr. took over the family office and joined the family businesses, considered to be the "heir" to Rockefeller.


  Heir to the British Throne  

The British line of succession is hereditary and is passed down via bloodline from the monarch to their eldest living child, either male or female.



The current monarch is Prince Charles III, who took on the role after his mother, Queen Elizabeth II, passed away. The heir to the throne is Charles's eldest child, Prince William. After Prince William, the heir to the throne is his eldest child, Prince George.




What Makes Someone an Heir?
An heir is someone who is legally entitled to inherit the deceased's assets when no will is present. Heirs are typically children or other living relatives. Nations and states have laws around inheritance and who qualifies as an heir.




What Is the Difference Between an Heir and a Beneficiary?
An heir is someone who is set to inherit the property of the deceased when no will or testament has been made. A beneficiary is someone who was chosen by the deceased to inherit their property as laid out in a will or testament. An heir is typically a close living relative whereas a beneficiary can be anyone.




Who Is Considered an Heir?
Children are considered to be heirs and are the most common example. If no children are living, then a person's grandchildren are considered to be heirs. If a person has no children or grandchildren, then the next closest living relative would be considered an heir.


   The Bottom Line  

An heir is someone who is entitled to the estate of a recently deceased person, most often when the deceased does not leave a will designating a beneficiary. An heir is often the child of an individual. The term "heir" has commonly been associated with lines of succession, particularly in royal families, however, the term can also simply refer to any individual who will assume the estate of another individual. This can be a child, grandchild, nephew, niece, or sibling.
What is a Held-By-Production Clause?  

"Held by production" is a provision in an oil or natural gas property lease that allows the lessee, generally an energy company, to continue drilling activities on the property as long as it is economically producing a minimum amount of oil or gas. The held-by-production provision thereby extends the lessee's right to operate the property beyond the initial lease term. This provision is also a feature of mineral property leases.





Key Takeaways

Held-by-production clauses allow miners for oil, gas and minerals extend their land leases after they expire as long as the mines are still productive.held-by-production clauses are also called “habendum” clausesMining companies seek held-by-production clauses to lock in a lease price in potentially “hot” areas of production.


   How a Held-By-Production Clause Works  

The held-by-production provision enables energy companies to avoid renegotiating leases upon expiry of the initial (primary) term and allows them to operate under a secondary term for the entire economic life cycle of an oil or gas field. This results in considerable savings to them, particularly in geographical areas that have become "hot" due to prolific output from oil and gas wells. With property prices in such areas generally on an upward trend, leaseholders would naturally demand significantly higher prices to renegotiate leases.


  Habendum Clause  

According to the law firm Holland & Hart, the held-by-production clause in a lease can also be called the habendum clause. A habendum clause in an oil and gas lease typically contains two separate terms, the primary term and the secondary term. The primary term is a fixed time period and expires at some point in the future. The time period under the secondary term is indefinite. So long as oil and gas are produced, the lease remains in effect. 


  Mineral Rights Lease  

Held by production is a type of mineral rights lease for the oil company, where the oil company operating the production facilities on another owner's land has a right to access the minerals or reserves on that land beyond the originally agreed lease term.



This issue is particularly important in the wake of the shale oil boom in the U.S. and Canada. Land with these shale resources can command considerable value. For some landowners, however, the shale boom is less welcome news because they have been cut out of the leasing windfall by held-by-production clauses.



Under held-by-production clauses, oil companies can retain control of the entire leasehold as long as there is at least one well producing a "minimum paying quantity" of oil or gas on the property. (Minimum paying quantities are generally defined as a value of oil production that exceeds operating costs.) This can create considerable conflict between landowners and the oil and gas companies operating there.


   Examples of a Held-By-Production Clause  

According to the Energy Mineral and Law Foundation, the use of held-by-production clauses increased dramatically after Range Resources, an independent natural gas company, began drilling extremely profitable horizontal, hydraulic fracturing wells in 2007 in Washington County, Pennsylvania.



When the industry became aware of Range’s successes with the new technique, other companies began leasing property for development at skyrocketing prices. The “competition for acreage caused lease prices to escalate from historical prices of $1 per acre to $500 per acre, then to $1,000 per acre, and then to as much as $10,000 and more per acre.”



In order to protect their investments from price rises, companies sought held-by-production clauses in their new leases, and in some cases they looked to buy old leases for poorly performing wells and use the new fracking technology to increase profits.
What Is a Held-For-Trading Security?  

A held-for-trading security is a debt or equity investment that investors purchase with the intent of selling within a short period of time, usually less than one year. Within that time frame, the investor hopes to see appreciation in the value of the security and sell it for a profit.



Because of accounting standards, companies have to classify investments in debt or equity securities when they are purchased. Other than held-for trading, other options include held-to maturity or available for sale.





Key Takeaways

A held-for-trading security is a debt or equity investment purchased with the intention of short-term gain.Any gains or losses for a held-for-trading security during its period of holding must be reported on the balance sheet of the trading firm.On the balance sheet, held-for-trading securities are considered current assets.Held-for-trading securities are reported at fair value, and unrealized/gains or losses are reflected in earnings.Accounting standards require debt or equity securities to be classified when they are purchased. In addition to held-for-trading, classifications include held-to-maturity and available for sale.


   Understanding a Held-For-Trading Security  

Held-for-trading securities can generate a profit from short-term price changes when investors sell them in the near term. They are short-term assets, and their accounting reflects that fact; the value of these investments is reported at fair value, and unrealized gains and/or losses are included as earnings.



The initial cost basis of these investments equals their fair value at the time of purchase. Over time, the market value of trading securities changes, and investors must report any unrealized gains and/or losses as earnings. The calculation of those gains and losses involves comparing a trading security's fair market value to its original purchase cost basis.



Held-for-trading securities are classified as current assets since they will be sold within a year and the cash flows from these securities are considered operating cash flows. Cash flows from held-to-maturity and available for sale securities are cash flows from investing.


   Held-For-Trading Security and Fair Value Adjustment  

Any increase or decrease in the fair value of a held-for-trading security requires an accounting adjustment. One must add or subtract the change from the security's previously reported value on the financial statements.



An accountant achieves this by debiting an increase or crediting a decrease in the fair-value change to an account called "securities fair value adjustment (trading)," which is a sub-account of the asset account for trading securities. A debit or a credit to the account of securities fair value adjustment is an accumulation or deficit, respectively, to the fair value of the trading security.



Changes in the fair value of a held-for-trading security from one period to another become an unrealized gain or loss to earnings.



A debit to the account of securities fair value adjustment from an increase in the security's fair value requires a credit to record the unrealized gain that adds to net income. Conversely, a credit to the account of securities fair value adjustment from a decrease in the security's fair value requires a debit to record the unrealized loss that reduces net income.


   Example of a Held-For-Trading Security  

Suppose that Company ABC purchased a security with the intent of selling it within a year. That security was recorded at its purchase costs when it was bought.



Now suppose that nine months have gone by and the security had a fair value of $1,000 as last reported on its financial statements. In the following quarter, by the end of the current accounting period, the security is trading for $1,200 in the market, which is the fair value of the security.



Per accounting standards, the company will have to record the new fair value of the security in its quarterly reporting. The fair-value-adjustment accounting requires a debit of $200 to the securities-fair-value-adjustment account.



Given the original value of $1,000, the trading-security account for this particular security ends the period with a fair value of $1,200. The $200 is also an unrealized gain that is reflected in earnings.



When the next accounting period arrives and the updated fair value of the security needs to be recorded, the calculation determining an increase or decrease will start from $1,200.
What Is Held Order?  

A held order is a market order that requires prompt execution for an immediate fill. This can be contrasted with a not-held order, which provides brokers with both time and price discretion to try and get a better fill for a customer.





Key Takeaways

A held order is given to a broker for prompt execution and an immediate fill, such as with a market order.The benefit of a held order is that the customer will be sure to have executed the entire size of their order, whether a buy or a sale, without delay.A not-held order, on the other hand, gives some discretion to the broker to work the order to try to find a better price.


   Understanding Held Order  

In most cases, a trade is expected to be executed at the best offer for buy orders or at the best bid for sell orders. Market orders are a common example of held orders. When filling a held order, traders have very little discretion in finding a price because time is scarce. Typically, they will be required to match the highest bid or lowest offer to facilitate an immediate transaction.



For example, if the bid-ask market spread in Apple Inc. (AAPL) is $156.90 / $157.00 and a trader receives a held order to purchase 100 shares, they would place a buy order at the offer price of $157.00, which would be executed immediately under normal market conditions.



Held orders are used by investors who need to change their exposure to a particular stock and want their order(s) executed without delay.



There are times when a placing held order is not advisable. One such instance is when you are dealing in illiquid stocks. Suppose a small-cap stock has a wide bid-ask market spread of $1.50 / $2.25. A trader who uses a held order is forced to pay the 33.3% spread ($0.75 / $2.25) to get prompt execution. In this instance, the trader may get a better price if they use discretion and sit at the top of the bid and incrementally increase the order price to entice a seller out of the woodwork. Of course, the 33.3% spread may be a reasonable price to pay if the trader is playing a breakout or closing a position that was a fat finger error to begin with.






Held orders implicitly come with an immediate-or-cancel (IOC) condition attached to them.


   Held Order Uses  

Most investors want to get the best price possible, but there are three situations that held orders are ideal for:



Trading Breakouts — A held order could be used to enter the market on a breakout if the trader wants an immediate entry into a stock and is not concerned about slippage costs. Slippage occurs if a market maker alters the spread to their advantage after receiving a market order. In a fast-moving stock, traders are often prepared to pay slippage to ensure they receive an instant fill.
Closing an Error Position — Traders may place a held order to unwind an error position they want to close immediately to reduce downside risk. For example, an investor may realize they had purchased the wrong stock and would place a held order to quickly reverse the position before they buy the correct security.
Hedging — If a trader is engaging in a hedged order, the hedge should be filled as soon as possible after the initial position is established so that the price of the hedging instrument does not change such that it is no longer an effective hedge. A held order would be useful in facilitating this.
What Are Held-to-Maturity (HTM) Securities?  

Held-to-maturity (HTM) securities are purchased to be owned until maturity. For example, a company's management might invest in a bond that they plan to hold to maturity. There are different accounting treatments for HTM securities compared to securities that are liquidated in the short term.


   How Held-to-Maturity (HTM) Securities Work  

Bonds and other debt vehicles—such as certificates of deposit (CDs)—are the most common form of HTM investments. Bonds and other debt vehicles have determined (or fixed) payment schedules, a fixed maturity date, and they are purchased to be held until they mature. Since stocks do not have a maturity date, they do not qualify as held-to-maturity securities.



For accounting purposes, corporations use different categories to classify their investments in debt and equity securities. In addition to HTM securities, other classifications include "held-for-trading" and "available for sale."



On a company's financial statements, these different categories are treated differently in terms of their investment value, as well as related gains and losses.





Key Takeaways

Held-to-maturity (HTM) securities are purchased to be owned until maturity.Bonds and other debt vehicles—such as certificates of deposit (CDs)—are the most common form of held-to-maturity (HTM) investments.Held-to-maturity (HTM) securities provide investors with a consistent stream of income; however, they are not ideal if an investor anticipates needing cash in the short-term.



HTM securities are typically reported as a noncurrent asset; they have an amortized cost on a company's financial statements. Amortization is an accounting practice that adjusts the cost of the asset incrementally throughout its life. Earned interest income appears on the company's income statement, but changes in the market price of the investment do not change on the firm's accounting statements.



HTM securities are only reported as current assets if they have a maturity date of one year or less. Securities with maturities over one year are stated as long-term assets and appear on the balance sheet at the amortized cost—meaning the initial acquisition cost, plus any additional costs incurred to date.



Unlike held-for-trading securities, temporary price changes for held-to-maturity securities do not appear in corporate accounting statements. Both available for sale and held-for-trading securities appear as fair value on accounting statements.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Held-to-Maturity (HTM) Securities  

The appeal of HTM securities depends on several factors, including whether or not the purchaser can afford to hold the investment until it matures—or if there might be an anticipated need to sell before that time.



The investor has the predictability of regular returns from HTM investments. These regular earnings allow the holder to make plans for the future, knowing this income will continue at the set rate, until the final return of capital upon maturity.



Since the interest rate received is fixed at the date of purchase, it's possible that the market interest rates will increase. (This would leave the investor at a relative disadvantage in this scenario because if the rates go up, the investor is earning less than if they had the funds invested at the current, higher market rate).



For the most part, HTM securities are long-term government or high-credit-rated corporate debt. However, investors must understand the risk of default if, while holding the long-term debt, the underlying company declares bankruptcy.





Pros

HTM investments allow for future planning with the assurance of their principal return on maturity.
Considered “safe” investments, with little to no risk.
Interest rate of earnings is locked in and will not change.



Cons

The fixed return is pre-determined, so there's no benefiting from a favorable change in market conditions.
The risk of default, while slight, still must be considered.
Held-to-maturity securities are not short term investments but meant to be held to term.





   Example of a Held-to-Maturity (HTM) Security  

The 10-year U.S. Treasury note is backed by the U.S government and is one of the safest investments for investors.﻿﻿ The 10-year bond pays a fixed rate of return. For example, as of August 2020, the 10-year bond pays 0.625% and comes in various maturities.﻿﻿



Let's say Apple (AAPL) wants to invest in a $1,000, 10-year bond and hold it to maturity. Every year, Apple will get paid 0.625%. Ten years from now, Apple will receive the face value of the bond, or $1,000. Regardless of whether interest rates rise or fall over the next 10 years, Apple will receive 0.625%, or $6.25 each year, in interest income.
What Is a Helicopter Drop (Helicopter Money)?  

A helicopter drop refers to a term first coined by Milton Friedman as a rhetorical device intended to abstract away the effects of any monetary policy transmission mechanisms in a thought experiment regarding the addition of cash to the bank accounts of all citizens—as if dropped from a helicopter overnight.﻿﻿



In recent decades this term has come to refer to a figurative application of Friedman's metaphor, as a type of monetary stimulus strategy that increases the quantity of the money supply and directly distributes cash to the public in order to spur inflation—or rising prices—and economic growth. Helicopter drop policies have become a common feature of the response from policymakers to large scale economic shocks since 2000.





Key Takeaways

Helicopter drop, an idea of economist Milton Friedman, is a type of monetary stimulus that injects cash into an economy as if it was thrown out of a helicopter.Helicopter money refers to increasing a nation's money supply through more spending, tax cuts, or boosting money supply. Some of the stimulus measures taken in response to the Covid-19 crisis resemble the concept of helicopter drop money.


   Understanding a Helicopter Drop (Helicopter Money)  

A helicopter drop is an expansionary fiscal or monetary policy that is financed by an increase in an economy's money supply. It could be an increase in spending or a tax cut, but it involves printing large sums of money and distributing it to the public in order to stimulate the economy. Mostly, the term "helicopter drop" is largely a metaphor for unconventional measures to jump-start the economy during deflationary periods, which consist of falling prices.



While "helicopter drop" was first mentioned by noted economist Milton Friedman, it gained popularity after former Federal Reserve (Fed) Chair Ben Bernanke made a passing reference to it in a November 2002 speech, when he was a new Fed governor. That single reference earned Bernanke the sobriquet of "Helicopter Ben"—the nickname that stayed with him during much of his tenure as a Fed member and chair.



Bernanke’s reference to a "helicopter drop" occurred in a speech that he made to the National Economists Club about measures that could be used to combat deflation. In that speech, Bernanke defined deflation as a side effect of a collapse in aggregate demand, or such a severe curtailment in consumer spending that producers would have to cut prices on an ongoing basis to find buyers. He also said the effectiveness of anti-deflation policy could be enhanced by cooperation between monetary and fiscal authorities and referred to a broad-based tax cut as “essentially equivalent to Milton Friedman’s famous ‘helicopter drop’ of money."



Bernanke’s critics subsequently used this reference to disparage his economic policies, though others argue that his handling of the U.S. economy during and after the Great Recession of 2008-09 was effective. Faced with the biggest recession since the 1930s, and with the U.S. economy on the brink of catastrophe, Bernanke used some of the very same methods outlined in his 2002 speech to combat the slowdown, such as expanding the scale and scope of the Fed’s asset purchases—a policy known as quantitative easing (QE).


   Examples of a Helicopter Drop  

Japan, which faced stagnant growth throughout the 21st century, toyed with the idea of helicopter money in 2016. Once again, Bernanke was at the forefront of the conversation when he met with Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe and Bank of Japan's Haruhiko Kuroda to discuss further monetary policy options, one of which was issuing large scale, long-dated perpetual bonds. In the ensuing months, Japan did not formally implement a helicopter drop but instead opted for further large scale asset purchases. 



A notable recent example of a helicopter drop policy is the direct-to-taxpayers stimulus payments made by the Trump administration, combined with simultaneous QE by the Fed, in response to the economic crisis induced by various government lockdowns of the economy during the COVID-19 pandemic. Initial payments of $1,200 per taxpayer were authorized under the CARES Act in March 2020. Another round of stimulus containing $600 payments was then passed in December of 2020.﻿﻿


   The Fed and the COVID-19 Pandemic  

Some could argue that the Fed's stimulus measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting recession could be considered helicopter drop money. In response to the economic hardship facing the United States, the Fed took unprecedented steps to stabilize the financial markets and the banking system as well as provide direct support to small businesses. The result was an injection of trillions of dollars into the U.S. economy.



The Fed's stimulus actions were carried out through multiple facilities, including the following:


  Paycheck Protection Program  

The Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility (PPPLF) was established to help small businesses keep workers on their payroll. The Fed supplied money or liquidity to participating financial institutions so that the banks could, in turn, lend the money to small businesses. Since the money has to be repaid, it might not be the purest example of helicopter money, but repayment has yet to be completed.﻿﻿


  Main Street Lending Program  

The Main Street Lending Program, which included five credit facilities, was established to support and provide loans to both small and mid-sized companies that were financially sound before the COVID-19 pandemic. The program ended on January 8, 2021.﻿﻿


  Corporate Bond Purchases  

One of the Fed's programs, in coordination with the U.S. Department of the Treasury, created a facility to directly purchase existing investment-grade corporate bonds of U.S. companies. The facility was called the Secondary Market Corporate Credit Facility (SMCCF) and represented the first time in the Fed's history that the central bank bought corporate bonds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that contained bonds.﻿﻿



The Fed's purchases reduced the outstanding supply of bonds, enabling companies to issue new bonds to raise capital or funds. Stimulative actions of injecting money into the economy by buying bonds and the issuance of loans swelled the Fed's balance sheet from $4.7 trillion on March 17, 2020, to more than $7.3 trillion by January 5, 2021.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿
What Is a Hell or High Water Contract?  

A hell or high water contract (also known as a promise-to-pay contract) is a non-cancelable contract. A hell or high water contract stipulates that the purchaser must make the specified payments to the seller, regardless of any difficulties they may encounter. Hell or high water clauses bind the purchaser or lessee to the terms of the contract until the contract's expiration.





Key Takeaways

A hell or high water contract is one where the obligee agrees to fulfill their end of the contract regardless of the difficulty.In lease or financing contracts, this means that the lessor or borrower is obligated to continue making payments even if the lease or financed asset is damaged or destroyed.A hell or high water contract shifts almost all of the risk of nonperformance or default on to the obligee, and thus can induce lessors or lenders to agree to transactions that would otherwise be too risky for them.


   Understanding Hell or High Water Contracts  

Hell or high water contracts require payment whether or not the good or service is working as planned. Generally speaking, hell or high water contracts are used when the provider of a service or product is taking a large risk on behalf of the client. This risk can refer to the amount of capital committed. The risk can also refer to the risk that there is not another purchaser on the market because the product is highly customizable.



In a hell or high water contract, the party who is obligated to pay effectively takes on all the risk of default from the seller, lessor, or lender. This can create an incentive that will induce the obligor to engage in a transaction that they otherwise might refuse based on the obligee's default risk.



The term itself comes from the colloquial phrase "come hell or high water," which is used to indicate an unconditional commitment to carry through on a course of action no matter what circumstances might arise.



The phrase is meant to imply that the speaker or obligee will follow through on their commitment even in the face of any severe adversity or catastrophe that may be beyond their control, not limited to demonic or diluvial influences. The references to hell and high water are Biblical allusions to the Biblical Hell and to Noah's flood, respectively, which represent earth-shattering cataclysms.


   Special Considerations  

Hell or high water contracts can be enforced even in instances where there is some fault or defect in the property at the center of the agreement. For example, if a lessee agrees to rent or lease a piece of equipment or machinery under hell or high water terms, they are responsible for those payments even if the equipment malfunctions. The vendor or lessor might only handle the financing aspect of the transaction and otherwise hold a passive role in regards to the equipment itself.



The lessee in such an agreement usually selects the equipment they wish to procure. The lessor then buys the chosen item that is in turn leased to the customer. A financing agreement with hell or high water language is designed to ensure that the lessee will pay the lessor under no uncertain terms.



If there is an issue with the equipment the lessee receives, the lessor typically is not at fault because the lessee chose the equipment they wanted to rent. The equipment may be shipped directly from the manufacturer or supplier to the lessee without the lessor ever coming into contact with it. Flaws in the equipment may be because of an issue with its manufacturing. Any warranties regarding the functionality of the equipment might fall to the supplier or manufacturer to fulfill.


   Hell or High Water Contracts in Finance  

Hell or high water contracts can be utilized in project finance transactions, acquisition deals, and high-yield indentures.



For example, an acquisition deal with hell or high water language can direct the prospective buyer in the agreement to shoulder the burden of addressing any necessary divestitures or litigation that might result from antitrust regulatory issues. The viability of the acquisition agreement could thus be tied directly to the buyer's ability to resolve such matters and clear the way for the deal to proceed.
What Is the Help-Wanted Index?  

The Conference Board's Help-Wanted Index (HWI) measures how efficiently employers are matching jobs to the available workforce (the unemployed) and is an important gauge on the economy.



The Conference Board, looking for a way to augment the portfolio of employment statistics, created the Help-Wanted Advertising Index in 1951. The most obvious contribution made by the HWI is its measure of the changes in employment demand as represented on the classified pages of newspapers, which is considered a leading indicator of unemployment. The arguably more meaningful contribution is the HWI's indirect measure of the slack in the job market—that is, how many jobs are going unfilled, or how efficient the job-matching process is.


   Understanding the Help-Wanted Index (HWI)  

When the Help-Wanted Index (HWI) is rising, it means there are a relatively large amount of positions needing to be filled. This can be interpreted as a shortage of workers. Because employers may have to raise wages to attract workers, wage inflation could ensue, which could have a negative effect on bond and equity markets.



Created first in 1951, the index totaled the lines of help-wanted classified ads from 51 leading newspapers, each from a different metropolitan statistical area around the United States.



The HWI was restructured to equal 100 in 1987 and is released to the public in a monthly press release. The Conference Board releases a national number for the HWI, along with regional numbers representing nine segments of the country, and a percentage number representing the proportion of the labor market with rising want-ad volume. The current HWI report can be found on the Conference Board's website.



The Conference Board is composed of a board of chairmen and trustees and its voting members. Most recently, these positions were filled by many high-ranking executives from corporations including Deutsche Bank, BBVA, Deere & Company, Johnson & Johnson, Monsanto, MasterCard, General Electric, Novartis, and State Farm Insurance.
What Is the University of Iowa Tippie College of Business?  

The University of Iowa Tippie College of Business is the business school at the University of Iowa in Iowa City, Iowa. Founded in 1921, it offers both undergraduate and graduate programs.



Prior to 2019, the University of Iowa Tippie College of Business was well-known for its Master of Business Administration (MBA), which had been rated as the best finance-focused MBA program in the world by the Financial Times in 2016. In 2019, the school graduated its final cohort of full-time MBA students, although it continues to offer a Professional MBA program for those wishing to pursue their MBA on a part-time basis.





Key Takeaways

The University of Iowa Tippie College of Business is a business school located at the University of Iowa in Iowa City, Iowa.The University of Iowa Tippie College of Business is a large and multifaceted institution, home to over 4,000 students in a variety of programs.The campus in Iowa City is home to a wide range of research institutions in areas such as marketing, business development, and investment banking.


   Understanding the University of Iowa Tippie College of Business  

Previously known as the University of Iowa College of Commerce, the school became known as the University of Iowa Tippie College of Business in 1999, following a naming gift by the entrepreneur and philanthropist, Henry B. Tippie.



Today, the University of Iowa Tippie College of Business is home to over 4,000 students, including 3,000 undergraduate students and 1,500 students in graduate-level programs. The college's 450 faculty members maintain dedicated research centers in subjects such as accounting, economics, and finance. The school is also home to the famous Iowa Electronic Markets (IEM), which is a leading research institution for the study of prediction markets.



In addition to offering undergraduate majors in the core business disciplines of accounting, economics, finance, and marketing, the University of Iowa Tippie College of Business also offers a professional MBA program designed for students wishing to complete their MBAs while continuing to advance their careers. Although this program is offered at four locations throughout the state of Iowa, additional programs are available for those wishing to study remotely or abroad. This includes an online MBA program, as well as international MBA programs based in Italy and Hong Kong.



Graduate students who don't want to pursue an MBA can choose to do a Master of Accountancy (MAc) degree, a Master's and Certificate in Business Analytics, or a Master of Finance.


   Graduates of the University of Iowa Tippie College of Business  

Students attending the University of Iowa Tippie College of Business can benefit from a wide range of dedicated research institutions located at the Iowa City campus. In addition to the IEM, which studies and develops prediction markets, this network includes other influential institutions in areas such as marketing, small business development, and investment banking.



Examples of such institutions include the Small Business Development Center, which supports student entrepreneurs with business model development and various aspects of entrepreneurial training; the Vaughan Institute, which provides training on risk management for both corporate finance and insurance applications; and the Hawkinson Institute, which is focused on investment banking.
What Is Henry Hub?  

Henry Hub is a natural gas pipeline located in Erath, Louisiana, that serves as the official delivery location for futures contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX). The hub is owned by Sabine Pipe Line LLC and has access to many of the major gas markets in the United States. The hub connects to four intrastate and nine interstate pipelines, including the Transcontinental, Acadian and Sabine pipelines.


   Understanding Henry Hub  

The Henry Hub pipeline is the pricing point for natural gas futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The NYMEX contract for deliveries at Henry Hub began trading in 1990 and is deliverable 18 months in the future. The settlement prices at Henry Hub are used as benchmarks for the entire North American natural gas market and parts of the global liquid natural gas (LNG) market.


   Importance of Hub Pricing  

Henry Hub is an important market clearing pricing concept because it is based on the actual supply and demand of natural gas as a stand-alone commodity. Other natural gas markets like Europe have fragmented hub pricing points. This means natural gas prices are often indexed to crude oil, which can have very different supply and demand factors affecting its price. Attempts are being made to develop European hub pricing points in the Netherlands and the UK, but this has proved difficult so far due to competition from national hubs. Asian natural gas markets are even more fragmented and have no defined hub pricing point, although Singapore would like to serve this regional role. Consequently, all Asian natural gas prices are either indexed to crude oil or linked to Henry Hub.


   Henry Hub and Liquid Natural Gas  

Henry Hub is also used in delivery contracts for LNG on a global basis, despite being a spot price for natural gas that is very specific to the North American gas market. Some global gas producers like Qatar and Australia prefer to base the pricing mechanism of their natural gas deliveries on spot prices rather than indexing to the price of oil. This is especially true when crude oil prices are falling. Gas producers can rely on Henry Hub as a source of natural gas spot pricing to meet this need because of its large trading volume, clear pricing transparency, and high liquidity. Henry Hub prices are widely quoted by futures exchanges and other media sources, so parties to a contact can easily obtain this pricing data.
Who Was Herbert A. Simon?  

Herbert A. Simon (1916–2001) was an American economist and political scientist who won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 1978 for his contributions to modern business economics and administrative research. He is widely associated with the theory of bounded rationality, which states that individuals do not make perfectly rational decisions because of both cognitive limits (the difficulty in obtaining and processing all the information needed) and social limits (personal and social ties among individuals).



Simon earned his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1943. After graduating, he worked in research and held teaching posts at a handful of universities before joining the Carnegie Mellon University faculty in 1949. He taught there for more than 50 years, as a professor of administration, psychology, and computer science. He also had a hand in the establishment of several of Carnegie Mellon's departments and schools, including the Graduate School of Industrial Administration, which is now known as the Tepper School of Business.



In addition to the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics, Simon received the A.M. Turing Award in 1975 for his work in computer science, including his contributions to the area of artificial intelligence. He also won the U.S. National Medal of Science in 1986.



Simon authored dozens of journal articles and 27 books during his lifetime, including "Administrative Behavior" (1947), "The Sciences of the Artificial" (1968), and "Models of Bounded Rationality" (1982).





Key Takeaways

Herbert A. Simon is widely associated with the theory of bounded rationality.His theories challenged classical economic thinking on rational behavior. He won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics for his contributions to modern business economics and administrative research.


   Herbert A. Simon and Bounded Rationality  

Herbert A. Simon and his theories on economic decision-making challenged classical economic thinking, including the ideas of rational behavior and the atomistic individualism of economic man. Rather than subscribing to the idea that economic behavior was rational and based upon all available information to secure the best possible outcome for an individual ("optimizing"), Simon believed decision-making was about achieving outcomes that were "good enough" for the individual based on their limited information and balancing the interests of others. Simon called this "satisficing." His term was a combination of the words "satisfy" and "suffice."



According to Simon, because humans cannot possibly obtain or process all the information needed to make fully rational decisions, they instead seek to use the information they do have to produce a satisfactory result, or one that is "good enough." He described humans as being bounded by their own "cognitive limits."



In addition to cognitive limits, Simon also wrote about how personal relations and social organizations constrain decision-making. This means that individuals often do not make decisions considering only their own interests or the individual's utility maximization, but must negotiate, exert power over, or otherwise navigate the interests of others and the rules of the institutional setting within which they operate.



Together these cognitive and social limits and the way they shape decision-making are commonly known as the theory of bounded rationality. Under bounded rationality, decision-makers must settle for finding satisfactory solutions to the problem or problems in front of them, while being mindful of how other decision-makers in the company are solving their own problems. Within these bounds, decision-making can still be rational in that it consists of comparing the relative costs, benefits, and risks to achieve a desired result. Bounded rationality would also go on to become a foundational element in behavioral economics, which at times also questions whether human decision-making is really rational at all.



When the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences awarded Simon the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics for his work in this area, it noted that much of modern business economics and administrative research are based on his ideas. Simon replaced the concept of the all-knowing, profit-maximizing entrepreneur with the idea of cooperating decision-makers within a company who face informational, personal, and social limitations.


   Herbert A. Simon and Artificial Intelligence  

Herbert A. Simon is considered a pioneer in the foundations of artificial intelligence. In the mid-1950s, Simon and Allen Newell of the Rand Corporation attempted to simulate human decision-making on computers. In 1955, they wrote a computer program that was able to prove mathematical theorems. The pair called it their "machine that thinks."
What Is Herd Instinct?  

The term herd instinct refers to a phenomenon where people join groups and follow the actions of others under the assumption that other individuals have already done their research. Herd instincts are common in all aspects of society, even within the financial sector, where investors follow what they perceive other investors are doing, rather than relying on their own analysis.



In other words, an investor who exhibits herd instinct generally gravitates toward the same or similar investments as others. Herd instinct at scale can create asset bubbles or market crashes via panic buying and panic selling.





Key Takeaways

A herd instinct is a behavior wherein people join groups and follow the actions of others.Herding occurs in finance when investors follow the crowd instead of their own analysis.It has a history of starting large, unfounded market rallies and sell-offs that are often based on a lack of fundamental support to justify either.The dotcom bubble of the late 1990s and early 2000s is a prime example of the effects of herd instinct.People can avoid herding by doing their own research, making their own decisions, and taking risks.


   Understanding Herd Instinct  

A herd instinct is a behavior wherein people tend to react to the actions of others and follow their lead. This is similar to the way animals react in groups when they stampede in unison out of the way of danger—perceived or otherwise. Herd instinct or herd behavior is distinguished by a lack of individual decision-making or introspection, causing those involved to think and behave in a similar fashion to everyone else around them.



Human beings are prone to a herd mentality, conforming to the activities and direction of others in multiple ways, from the way we shop to the way we invest. The fear of missing out on a profitable investment idea is often the driving force behind herd instinct, especially in the wake of good news or after an analyst releases a research note. But this can be a mistake.



Herd instinct, also known as herding, has a history of starting large, unfounded market rallies and sell-offs that are often based on a lack of fundamental support to justify either. Herd instinct is a significant driver of asset bubbles (and market crashes) in financial markets. The dotcom bubble of the late 1990s and early 2000s is a prime example of the ramifications of herd instinct in the growth and subsequent bursting of that industry's bubble.



Because this type of behavior is instinctual, those who don't succumb to it can often feel distressed or fearful. If the crowd is generally going in one direction, an individual may feel they're wrong by going the opposite way. Or they may fear being singled out for not jumping on the bandwagon.






Working with a financial professional may help you curb your herd instincts so you can make sound financial decisions.


   Human Nature to Follow the Crowd  

We all cherish our individuality and insist that we take responsibility for our own welfare by making decisions based on our own needs and wants. But it is natural for human beings to want to feel as though they're part of a community of people with shared cultural and socioeconomic norms. So it shouldn't come as a surprise to find that it's just a part of human nature to follow the crowd.



Investors can be induced into following the herd, whether through buying at the top of a market rally or jumping off the ship in a market sell-off. Behavioral finance theory attributes this conduct to the natural human tendency to be swayed by societal influences that trigger the fear of being alone or the fear of missing out.



Another motivating force behind crowd behavior is our tendency to look for leadership in the form of the balance of the crowd's opinion (we think that the majority must be right) or in the form of a few key individuals who seem to be driving the crowd's behavior by virtue of their uncanny ability to predict the future.



In times of uncertainty, we look to strong leaders to guide our behavior and provide examples to follow. The seemingly omniscient market guru is but one example of the type of individual who purports to stand as an all-knowing leader of the crowd, but whose façade is the first to crumble when the tides of mania eventually turn. 






Don't be a lemming. An uninformed investor who exhibits herd mentality and invests without doing their own research often loses money.


   Herding and Investment Bubbles  

An investment bubble occurs when exuberant market behavior drives a rapid escalation in the price of an asset above and beyond its intrinsic value. The bubble continues to inflate until the asset price reaches a level beyond fundamental and economical rationality.



At this stage in a bubble’s existence, further increases in the cost of the asset often are contingent purely on investors continuing to buy in at the highest price. When investors are no longer willing to buy at that price level, the bubble begins to collapse. In speculative markets, the burst can incite far-reaching corollary effects.



Some bubbles occur organically, driven by investors who are overcome with optimism about a security’s price increase and a fear of being left behind as others realize significant gains. Speculators are drawn to invest, and thus cause the security price and trading volume to climb even higher.



The irrational exuberance over dotcom stocks in the late 1990s was driven by cheap money, easy capital, market overconfidence, and over-speculation. It did not matter to investors that many dotcoms were generating no revenue, much less any profits. The herding instincts of investors made them anxious to pursue the next initial public offering (IPO) while completely overlooking the traditional fundamentals of investing. Just as the market peaked, investment capital began to dry up, which led to the bursting of the bubble and steep investment losses.


   How to Avoid Herd Instinct  

Herding may be instinctual but there are ways for you to avoid following the crowd, especially if you think you'll be making a mistake by doing so. It requires some discipline and a few considerations. Try following some of these suggestions:



Stop looking at others to do the research and take the steps to study the facts for yourselfDo your due diligence and then develop your own opinions and your final decisionAsk questions about how and why people are taking certain actions and make your own decisionsDelay making decisions if you are distracted, whether that's because of stress or any other external factorTake the initiative, be daring, and don't be afraid to stand out from the crowd


   Herd Mentality FAQs  
  What Are Some Potential Dangers of Herd Mentality in Markets?  

Herding or following the crowd can cause trends to amplify well-beyond fundamentals. As people pile into investments for fear of missing out, or because they have heard something positive but have not actually done their own due diligence, prices can skyrocket. This irrational exuberance can lead to unstable asset bubbles that ultimately pop.



In reverse, sell-offs can turn into market crashes as people pile in to sell for no other reason than others are doing so, which can turn into panic selling.


  What Are Some Positives of Herd Mentality in Markets?  

Herding behavior can have some benefits. It allows novice or uninformed investors to benefit from the due diligence and research of others. Passive index investing, for instance, is a herding-type strategy that relies on simply matching the broader market's performance.



Herd instinct can also let the novice trader cut their losses early since it is often better to sell along with the crowd than risk being a bag holder.


  Outside of Investments, What Are Some Other Examples of Herd Mentality?  

Herd instinct appears in several contexts and throughout human history. Aside from various asset bubbles and manias, herding can help explain mob behavior or riots, fads, conspiracy theories, mass delusions, political and social movements, sports fandom, and many others. For instance, people may rush out to buy the newest smartphone because of its popularity with other consumers.


  How Can One Avoid Falling Victim to Herd Mentality?  

A good way to avoid this is to make investment decisions that are based on sound, objective criteria and not let emotions take over. Another way is to adopt a contrarian strategy, whereby you buy when others are panicking, picking up assets while they are on sale, and selling when euphoria leads to bubbles.



At the end of the day, it is human nature to be part of a crowd, and so it can be difficult to resist the urge to deviate from your plan. Passive investments and robo-advisors provide good ways to keep your hands off of your investments.
What Is the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI)?  

The Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) is a common measure of market concentration and is used to determine market competitiveness, often pre- and post-merger and acquisition (M&A) transactions.



The index measures the size of companies relative to the size of the industry they are in and the amount of competitiveness. The HHI is calculated by squaring the market share of each firm competing in a market and then summing the resulting numbers. It can range from close to 0 to 10,000, with lower values indicating a less concentrated market.





Key Takeaways

The Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) is used to determine market competitiveness.A market with an HHI of less than 1,500 is considered a competitive marketplace, an HHI of 1,500 to 2,500 is moderately concentrated, and an HHI of 2,500 or greater is highly concentrated.The primary disadvantage of the HHI stems from the fact that it is such a simple measure that it fails to take into account the complexities of various markets.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Formula and Calculation of the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI)  

The HHI is a commonly accepted measure of market concentration. It is calculated by squaring the market share of each firm competing in a market and then summing the resulting numbers. It can range from close to 0 to 10,000. The U.S. Department of Justice uses the HHI for evaluating potential merger antitrust issues.


















H


H


I


=



s


1


2



+



s


2


2



+



s


3


2



+


…



s


n


2

















where:

















s


n



=


the market share percentage of firm 


n

















 expressed as a whole number, not a decimal







\begin{aligned}&HHI=s^2_1+s^2_2+s^2_3+\dots s^2_n\\&\textbf{where:}\\&s_n=\text{the market share percentage of firm } n\\& \qquad\,\text{ expressed as a whole number, not a decimal}\end{aligned}


​HHI=s12​+s22​+s32​+…sn2​where:sn​=the market share percentage of firm n expressed as a whole number, not a decimal​


   What the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) Indicates  

The closer a market is to a monopoly, the higher the market's concentration (and the lower its competition). If, for example, there were only one firm in an industry, that firm would have 100% market share, and the HHI would equal 10,000, indicating a monopoly. If there were thousands of firms competing, each would have roughly 0% market share, and the HHI would be close to 0, indicating nearly perfect competition.



The U.S. Department of Justice considers a market with an HHI of less than 1,500 to be a competitive marketplace, an HHI of 1,500 to 2,500 to be a moderately concentrated marketplace, and an HHI of 2,500 or greater to be a highly concentrated marketplace. As a general rule, mergers that increase the HHI by more than 200 points in highly concentrated markets raise antitrust concerns, as they are assumed to enhance market power under Section 5.3 of the Horizontal Merger Guidelines jointly issued by the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).



The primary advantage of the HHI is the simplicity of the calculation needed to determine it and the small amount of data required for the calculation. The primary disadvantage of the HHI stems from the fact that it is such a simple measure that it fails to take into account the complexities of various markets in a way that allows for a genuinely accurate assessment of competitive or monopolistic market conditions.






Regulators use the HHI Index by measuring the largest companies in a particular industry to determine if that industry should be considered competitive or close to being a monopoly.


   Example of the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI)  

The HHI is calculated by taking the market share of each firm in the industry, squaring them, and summing the result, as depicted in the equation above. Consider the following hypothetical industry with four total firms:



Firm 1 market share = 40%Firm 2 market share = 30%Firm 3 market share = 15%Firm 4 market share = 15%



The HHI is calculated as:












H


H


I









=


4



0


2



+


3



0


2



+


1



5


2



+


1



5


2

















=


1


,


600


+


900


+


225


+


225


=


2


,


950







\begin{aligned}HHI &= 40^2 + 30^2 + 15^2 + 15^2\\ &= 1,600 + 900 + 225 + 225 = 2,950\end{aligned}


HHI​=402+302+152+152=1,600+900+225+225=2,950​



This HHI value is considered a highly concentrated industry, as expected because there are only four firms. However, the number of firms in an industry does not necessarily indicate anything about market concentration, which is why calculating the HHI is important.



For example, assume an industry has 20 firms. Firm 1 has a market share of 48.59%, and each of the 19 remaining firms has a market share of 2.71% each. The HHI would be exactly 2,500, indicating a substantially highly concentrated market. If Firm 1 had a market share of 35.82% and each of the remaining firms had a 3.38% market share, the HHI would be exactly 1,500, indicating a competitive marketplace.


   Limitations of the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI)  

The basic simplicity of the HHI carries some inherent disadvantages, primarily in terms of failing to define the specific market that is being examined in a proper, realistic manner. For example, consider a situation in which the HHI is used to evaluate an industry determined to have 10 active companies, and each company has about a 10% market share. Using the basic HHI calculation, the industry would appear highly competitive.



However, within the marketplace, one company might have as much as 80% to 90% of the business for a specific segment of the market, such as the sale of one specific item. That firm would thus have nearly a total monopoly for the production and sale of that product.



Another problem in defining a market and considering market share can arise from geographic factors. This problem can occur when companies within an industry have roughly equal market share, but they each operate only in specific areas of the country, so that each firm, in effect, has a monopoly within the specific marketplace in which it does business.



For example, while the merger of cellular phone providers Sprint and T-Mobile increased the HHI value for the entire country by several hundred points because market share is concentrated in certain geographical areas, the index value increased by more than 1,000 points in many markets. For these reasons, for the HHI to be properly used, other factors must be taken into consideration, and markets must be very clearly defined.


   Creators of the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI)  

The concept behind the HHI initially emerged in a 1945 book by German economist Albert O. Hirschman titled National Power and the Structure of Foreign Trade. The method proposed by Hirschman differed from existing measures of concentration by placing a more significant weighting on larger firms whose greater market share has a greater impact on the level of competitiveness in the market.



A few years after Hirschman outlined this system for measuring market concentration, American economist Orris C. Herfindahl repurposed the idea in his 1950 doctoral dissertation, Concentration in the U.S. Steel Industry. Whereas Hirschman had applied the idea to the concentration of imports and exports on a countrywide basis, Herfindahl uses the framework to analyze on the competitiveness of the steel industry. Herfindahl refers to Hirschman's work in a footnote.




What Does the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) Mean?
The Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) is a common measure of market concentration and is used to determine market competitiveness, often pre- and post-merger and acquisition (M&A) transactions. The closer a market is to a monopoly, the higher the market's concentration (and the lower its competition).




How Do I Interpret the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI)?
A market with an HHI below 1,500 is considered a competitive marketplace, an HHI of 1,500 to 2,500 is moderately concentrated, and an HHI of 2,500 or greater is highly concentrated. As a general rule, mergers that increase the HHI by more than 200 points in highly concentrated markets raise antitrust concerns, as they are assumed to enhance market power.




What Is the Main Advantage of the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI)?
The primary advantage of the HHI is the simplicity of the calculation and the small amount of data required for the calculation. Also, firms are weighted according to their size, which makes the HHI superior to other measures, like the concentration ratio.


   The Bottom Line  

The Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) is used to determine market competitiveness. It measures the degree of concentration within a specific market. A market with an HHI of less than 1,500 is considered a competitive marketplace, an HHI of 1,500 to 2,500 is moderately concentrated, and an HHI of 2,500 or greater is highly concentrated.
What Is the Heritage and Stabilization Fund (HSF)?  

The Heritage and Stabilization Fund is a sovereign wealth fund established in March 2007 by the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago government. It was previously known as the Interim Revenue Stabilization Fund, which was set up in 2000.



The primary objectives of the fund are to save and invest surplus petroleum production revenues to support and sustain public expenditures during periods of revenue downturn and to provide a heritage for future generations of the nation.





Key Takeways

The Heritage and Stabilization Fund is Trinidad and Tobago's sovereign fund, used to maintain the countries' heritage and provide a buffer during economic downturns.The fund was created with The Heritage and Stabilization Act, No. 6 of 2007.The HSF had a Net Asset Value in June 2022 of $4.7 billion (according to the latest available quarterly report).












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding the Heritage and Stabilization Fund (HSF)  

The Heritage and Stabilization Fund was created in The Heritage and Stabilization Act, No. 6 of 2007. It is denominated in U.S. dollars, and its fiscal year ends in September. The fund provides a cushion to the economy of the islands in times when the price of oil or natural gas has fallen.



By the end of 2022, the fund had net assets of $4.6 billion (down from $5.5 billion in 2021), compared with a value of $1.4 billion in 2007.


   Rules of the Fund  

According to its governing legislation, the fund is intended to "(a) Cushion the impact on or sustain public expenditure capacity during periods of revenue downturn whether caused by a fall in prices of crude oil or natural gas; (b) Generate an alternate stream of income to support public expenditure capacity as a result of revenue downturn caused by the depletion of non-renewal petroleum resources; and (c) Provide a heritage for future generations of citizens of Trinidad and Tobago from savings and investment income derived from the excess petroleum revenues."



Under the legislation that established the fund, withdrawals are "limited to 60% of the amount of the shortfall of petroleum revenues for the relevant year; or 25% of the balance of the Fund at the beginning of that year, whichever is the lesser amount. The Act precludes any withdrawal where the balance standing to the credit of the Fund would fall below one billion US dollars if such withdrawal were to be made."






Withdrawals are allowed "Where the petroleum revenues collected in any financial year fall below the estimated petroleum revenues for that financial year by at least 10%, withdrawals may be made from the Fund."


   Recent Fund History  

Following a sharp drop in energy prices in 2015, the fund reported that it withdrew approximately $375 million to contribute to its annual budget. This was the first such net withdrawal since the fund's inception. In its 2016 annual report, the fund stated that its cumulative annualized return since inception was 5.34%, outperforming the benchmark of 4.87%.



In the 2020/2021 fiscal year, the fund had a net asset value of $5.47 billion following $2.5 billion in withdrawals intended to "ease the hardships faced by the most affected sections of the population and by small and medium-sized businesses."



In June 2022, the fund's net asset value shrank to $4.7 billion, half a million lower than its NAV at the end of the first quarter of that year.




What Is a Sovereign Wealth Fund?
A sovereign wealth fund can take many forms, but generally, it is an investment instrument created by a government or entity for social programs, emergency events, political purposes, or other uses.




What Does Stabilization Fund Mean?
A stabilization fund is an instrument created by a government that holds funds for the purpose of stabilizing an economy.




What Is a Heritage Fund?
A heritage fund is a financial instrument designed by a government or other entity intending to use the funds for specific purposes. There are various uses for heritage funds, some of which include improving or maintaining historical areas and property and providing educational assistance for or supporting the efforts of specific groups of people.


   The Bottom Line  

The Heritage and Stabilization Fund was created by The Heritage and Stabilization Act of 2007 in Trinidad and Tobago. It was intended to hold and invest surplus petroleum revenues to act as a financial buffer during financial downturns and provide an alternate funding method for public expenditures.
What Is the Heroes Earned Retirement Opportunities (HERO) Act?  

The Heroes Earned Retirement Opportunities (HERO) Act is a 2006 law that allows military personnel to fund their individual retirement accounts (IRAs) with combat pay. It is a tax break designed for those who have served in combat zones. Under the law, combat-related compensation paid since January 2004, which is tax-free, can be used to fund IRAs.





Key Takeaways

The Heroes Earned Retirement Opportunities (HERO) Act allows military personnel to use combat pay for individual retirement accounts (IRAs). Combat pay is tax-free income for military personnel, but general IRA rules require the account holder have taxable income before contributing. The HERO Act allows such personnel to get around the requirement that IRA contributions be with earned taxable income. 


   Understanding the HERO Act  

Previous to the act's passage, military personnel whose main source of compensation was combat pay would not be able to contribute to an IRA—either traditional or Roth IRAs. This was because combat pay is not ordinarily taxable, and only income that is taxable can be contributed to an IRA. If a person's entire income was earned in a combat zone, that person had zero taxable income.



The act passed on May 18, 2006, fixed this Catch-22, and backdated the change to January 2004 for those affected. Now, military personnel can create an IRA and fund it with combat pay, up to the annual limits set by the IRS. For 2022, the limit is $6,000 per year, rising to $6,500 for 2023. People age 50 and over can add another $1,000 a year as a catch-up contribution.



According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), "to qualify for combat-related tax benefits, you must be an eligible member who meets one of the following options with service in (a recognized area). 



Service in an active combat area as designated by Executive Order, and…Receive special pay for duty subject to hostile fire or imminent danger as certified by the Department of Defense. Service in a support area as designated by the Department of Defense in direct sustainment of military operations in the combat zone, and... receive special pay for duty subject to hostile fire or imminent danger as certified by the Department of Defense. Service in a statutorily designated Qualified Hazardous Duty Area, and…Receive special pay for duty subject to hostile fire or imminent danger as certified by the Department of Defense."






If you receive combat pay as a military member, you can now fund an IRA (up to $6,000 a year in 2022 and up to $6,500 in 2023, if you are under age 50) with that income.


   Special Considerations  

With the passage of this law, combat veterans can create either a traditional IRA or Roth IRA account and contribute up to the annual limit. Military personnel can also create both types of accounts and split the money up, assuming they meet income and contribution requirements for Roth IRAs. 



With a traditional IRA, no taxes are due until the account holder makes a withdrawal, presumably after retiring. With a Roth IRA, the income taxes on the amount paid are due in that tax year, but the proceeds are tax-free down the road.
What Is the Herrick Payoff Index?  

The Herrick Payoff Index is a technical analysis tool that tracks price, volume, and open interest to identify potential trends and reversals in futures and options markets. Traders often use the indicator as a measure of crowd psychology and to follow money flows in order to make forward-looking decisions.





Key Takeaways

The Herrick Payoff is a tool used to confirm price trends or reversals in derivatives markets using price and volume information to track money flows.One advantage of the Herrick Payoff Index is that it can produce signals even in the midst of a trending market.However, because it is forward-looking, the Index can also produce false positives, and so should be used in combination with other technical indicators.


   Understanding the Herrick Payoff Index  

The Herrick Payoff Index takes account of a derivative contract's price, volume, and open interest to generate bullish and bearish signals. Since open interest is used in the calculation, the technical indicator can only be used in options and futures markets. Most traders use the Herrick Payoff Index to measure crowd psychology in the futures and options markets. In those markets, there is less liquidity than the equity markets and more potential for volatility over time.



Bullish continuation signals are generated when prices and open interest rise since traders are increasingly buying into the contract. In addition, a contract may be poised for a bullish reversal when prices and open interest are falling at the same time because selling pressure is declining as prices are becoming increasingly attractive.



Bearish continuation signals are generated when prices are falling, and open interest is rising, since traders are increasingly placing bearish bets. Also, a contract may be poised for a bearish reversal when prices are rising, and open interest is falling, which indicates that bullish traders are losing momentum.



In general, bullish traders are in control when the indicator is above the centerline, and bearish traders are in control when the indicator is below the centerline. However, traders should use the indicator in conjunction with other technical indicators or chart patterns to maximize their odds of placing successful trades.






Using other technical indicators for confirmation can reduce the impact of false signals from the Herrick Payoff Index.


   Benefits of the Herrick Payoff Index  

One feature of the Herrick Payoff Index is the ability to generate exit signals when trends are still underway. As open interest falls, the Herrick Payoff Index indicates that the ongoing price trend is likely to reverse. With this indicator, traders have the potential to get out before the price even starts to decline. That is very different from many other technical signals, which are lagging indicators. Most notably, any indicator based on moving averages, such as the MACD, will always lag price action in the market.



Exiting a trade before a price drop by using the Herrick Payoff Index yields even larger benefits because its home is in the highly volatile futures and options markets. Since these derivatives use such high degrees of leverage, even a small drop in the underlying security price can easily cause significant losses. For example, a stock price decrease of just 5% can lead to a loss of more than 25% for a call option.


   Downsides of the Herrick Payoff Index  

The Herrick Payoff Index is, however, often a less reliable guide for entering trades because of the forward-looking nature of its reversal signals. Suppose prices are still declining, but open interest is also falling, as shown by the Herrick Payoff Index. While that may indicate the downward pressure is slowing, it does not mean a rally is imminent. The asset could instead stabilize in price and stay there for a long time. Famous trader Jesse Livermore called such securities "listless drifters," and he actually disliked them more than outright losses that he would typically sell right away.



However, ordinary traders are usually more afraid of losses, which are real possibilities when entering trades based on the Herrick Payoff Index. Buying a security while the price is still falling goes against the common wisdom among speculators that one should not try and catch a falling dagger. Indeed, value investors often try to do just that. However, value investors rarely use technical indicators like the Herrick Payoff Index.



Even with exit signals, there is a heightened danger of a premature move with the Herrick Payoff Index. When lagging indicators send false signals, their followers at least have the consolation of cutting their losses. Since the Herrick Payoff Index sends exit signals when prices are still going up, interest may revive, and the security might just keep going up unimpeded. Letting go of a rising star like that is something that would frustrate many traders, especially those with limited experience.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is the Hersey-Blanchard Model?  

The Hersey-Blanchard Model suggests no single leadership style is better than another. Instead of focusing on workplace factors, the model suggests that leaders should adjust their techniques to those they lead and their abilities.



Under the model, successful leadership is both task-relevant and relationship-relevant. It is an adaptive, flexible style in which leaders are encouraged to consider their followers—individuals or a team—then consider the factors that impact the work environment before choosing how they will lead. This gives them a better chance of meeting their goals.



The Hersey-Blanchard Model is also called the Situational Leadership Model or Theory.





Key Takeaways

The Hersey-Blanchard Model suggests no leadership style is better than another.The model suggests managers adapt their leadership style to tasks and relationships in the workplace.The model's leadership styles are related directly to employees' different maturity categories.


   Understanding the Hersey-Blanchard Model  

The Hersey-Blanchard Model, or situational leadership style, was developed by author Paul Hersey and leadership expert Ken Blanchard, author of The One Minute Manager. The model is not a static leadership style. Instead, it is flexible, wherein the manager adapts their management style to various factors in the workplace, including their relationship with employees.



That means managers who live by the model must choose a leadership style related to followers' maturity. For example, if an employee's maturity is high, the model suggests the leader provide minimal guidance. By contrast, if their maturity is low, the manager may need to provide explicit directions and supervise work closely to ensure the group has clarity on their goals and how they are expected to achieve them.



The maturity level of followers is divided into four categories:



High maturity: Highly capable and confident individuals who are experienced and work well independently.Moderate high maturity: Employees who are capable but lack enough confidence to take on the responsibility of the work.Moderate low maturity: Employees with the confidence to complete the task but not the willingness.Low-maturity: Employees who are not skilled enough to do the task but are very enthusiastic.






Because the Hersey-Blanchard model depends on a leader's decision-making skills, it uses an individualistic rather than a group approach.


   Special Considerations  
  Hersey-Blanchard Model and Leadership Styles  

Hersey and Blanchard developed four types of leadership styles based on the task and relationships that leaders experience in the workplace. According to the model, the following are styles of leadership managers can use:



Delegating style: A low-task, low-relationship style in which the leader allows the group to take responsibility for task decisions. This is best used with high-maturity followers.Participating style: A low-task, high-relationship style that emphasizes shared ideas and decisions. Managers can use this style with moderate followers who are experienced but may lack the confidence to do the tasks assigned.Selling style: A high-task, high-relationship style in which the leader attempts to sell their ideas to the group by explaining task directions in a persuasive manner. This, too, is used with moderate followers. Unlike the previous style, these followers have the ability but are unwilling to do the job.Telling style: A high-task, low-relationship style in which the leader gives explicit directions and supervises work closely. This style is geared toward low-maturity followers.


  Applying the Model and Its Limitations  

This leadership method lets executives, managers, or people in other positions of authority take charge of their followers based on the acumen, understanding, and context of the group.



By considering how the employee's characteristics can affect a project's performance and outcomes, leaders can apply an appropriate structure and degree of control to achieve the desired result.



There are limitations to the model that may be beyond the leader’s control. The position and authority of the leader may be restricted by the operational chain of command or hierarchy for an organization, which could force them to adopt rigid styles rather than adapt to follower maturity.






Time constraints, a narrow field of options, and limits on available assets can also force managers to act based on their circumstances, eliminating the possibility of enacting strategies built around follower maturity.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Hersey-Blanchard Model  

Although this leadership model may be sound in theory, it may not necessarily apply in every situation. There are advantages and disadvantages in this approach.


  Advantages  

One advantage of an adaptive leadership style is that leaders can change at any time. Secondly, employees may find a leader who adapts to shifts in the workforce as a desirable trait.



It is also a simple and easy-to-apply leadership style, meaning a manager can quickly evaluate a situation and decide as they see fit.


  Disadvantages  

On the downside, situational leadership may put too much responsibility on the manager, whose decisions may be flawed. Additionally, the model may not work well in certain work cultures, industries, or sectors.



Lastly, there is a chance that this model might prioritize relationships and tasks instead of a company's long-term goals. A manager should be mindful of this when using this approach.




What Does the Hersey-Blanchard Model Focus on?
The Hersey-Blanchard model focuses on adapting your management style to the maturity level of the employees you're addressing.




What Are the 4 Domains of Hersey and Blanchard?
The four maturity levels are low, moderate low, moderate high, and high maturity. Depending on the employee's maturity, a manager can choose from four styles of leadership—telling, selling, participating, and delegating.




What Is the Situational Leadership Model by Hersey and Blanchard?
Situational leadership is adapting your style based on who you manage and assign tasks to and the situation.


   The Bottom Line  

The Situational Leadership Model was proposed by Paul Hersey and Ken Blanchard in 1996 as a way to guide leaders to more effective leadership based on situations and people. Because employees work and mature professionally—or not—the theory suggests that they may respond better to different levels of guidance, supervision, and instruction.



The theory behind the model is to use different approaches with employees based on their abilities, willingness to work, knowledge, and experience.
What Is the Heston Model?  

The Heston Model, named after Steve Heston, is a type of stochastic volatility model used to price European options.





Key Takeaways

The Heston Model is an options pricing model that utilizes stochastic volatility.This means that the model assumes that volatility is arbitrary, in contrast to the Black-Scholes model that holds volatility constant.The Heston Model is a type of volatility smile model, which is a graphical representation of several options with identical expiration dates that show increasing volatility as the options become more ITM or OTM.


   Understanding the Heston Model  

The Heston Model, developed by associate finance professor Steven Heston in 1993, is an option pricing model that can be used for pricing options on various securities. It is comparable to the more popular Black-Scholes option pricing model.



Overall, option pricing models are used by advanced investors to estimate and gauge the price of a particular option, trading on an underlying security in the financial marketplace. Options, just like their underlying security, will have prices that change throughout the trading day. Option pricing models seek to analyze and integrate the variables that cause fluctuation of option prices in order to identify the best option price for investment.



As a stochastic volatility model, the Heston Model uses statistical methods to calculate and forecast option pricing with the assumption that volatility is arbitrary. The assumption that volatility is arbitrary, rather than constant, is the key factor that makes stochastic volatility models unique. Other types of stochastic volatility models include the SABR model, the Chen model, and the GARCH model.


   Key Differences  

The Heston Model has characteristics that distinguish it from other stochastic volatility models, namely:



It factors in a possible correlation between a stock's price and its volatility.It conveys volatility as reverting to the mean.It gives a closed-form solution, meaning that the answer is derived from an accepted set of mathematical operations.It does not require that stock prices follow a lognormal probability distribution.



The Heston Model is also a type of volatility smile model. "Smile" refers to the volatility smile, a graphical representation of several options with identical expiration dates that show increasing volatility as the options become more in-the-money (ITM) or out-of-the-money (OTM). The smile model's name derives from the concave shape of the graph, which resembles a smile.


   Heston Model Methodology  

The Heston Model is a closed-form solution for pricing options that seeks to overcome some of the shortcomings presented in the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Heston Model is a tool for advanced investors.


  The calculation is as follows:  
















d



S


t



=


r



S


t



d


t


+




V


t





S


t



d



W



1


t


















d



V


t



=


k


(


θ


−



V


t



)


d


t


+


σ




V


t




d



W



2


t


















where:

















S


t



=


asset price at time 


t
















r


=


risk-free interest rate – theoretical rate on an
















asset carrying no risk


















V


t




=


volatility (standard deviation) of the asset price
















σ


=


volatility of the 




V


t


















θ


=


long-term price variance
















k


=


rate of reversion to 


θ
















d


t


=


indefinitely small positive time increment

















W



1


t




=


Brownian motion of the asset price

















W



2


t




=


Brownian motion of the asset’s price variance







\begin{aligned} &dS_t = rS_tdt + \sqrt{ V_t } S_tdW_{1t} \\ &dV_t = k ( \theta - V_t ) dt+ \sigma \sqrt{ V_t } dW_{2t} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &S_t = \text{asset price at time } t \\ &r = \text{risk-free interest rate -- theoretical rate on an} \\ &\text{asset carrying no risk} \\ &\sqrt{ V_t } = \text{volatility (standard deviation) of the asset price} \\ &\sigma = \text{volatility of the } \sqrt{ V_t } \\ &\theta = \text{long-term price variance} \\ &k = \text{rate of reversion to } \theta \\ &dt = \text{indefinitely small positive time increment} \\ &W_{1t} = \text{Brownian motion of the asset price} \\ &W_{2t} = \text{Brownian motion of the asset's price variance} \\ \end{aligned}


​dSt​=rSt​dt+Vt​​St​dW1t​dVt​=k(θ−Vt​)dt+σVt​​dW2t​where:St​=asset price at time tr=risk-free interest rate – theoretical rate on anasset carrying no riskVt​​=volatility (standard deviation) of the asset priceσ=volatility of the Vt​​θ=long-term price variancek=rate of reversion to θdt=indefinitely small positive time incrementW1t​=Brownian motion of the asset priceW2t​=Brownian motion of the asset’s price variance​


   Heston Model vs. Black-Scholes  

The Black-Scholes model for option pricing was introduced in the 1970s and served as one of the first models for helping investors derive a price associated with an option on a security. In general, it helped to promote option investing as it created a model for analyzing the price of options on various securities.



Both the Black-Scholes and Heston Model are based on underlying calculations that can be coded and programmed through advanced Excel or other quantitative systems. The Black-Scholes call option formula is calculated by multiplying the stock price by the cumulative standard normal probability distribution function.



Thereafter, the net present value (NPV) of the strike price multiplied by the cumulative standard normal distribution is subtracted from the resulting value of the previous calculation.



In mathematical notation,



Call = S * N(d1) – Ke(-r * T) * N(d2)



Conversely, the value of a put option could be calculated using the formula:



Put = Ke(-r * T) * N(-d2) – S * N(-d1)



In both formulas, S is the stock price, K is the strike price, r is the risk-free interest rate, and T is the time to maturity.



The formula for d1 is:



(ln(S/K) + (r + (Annualized Volatility)2/2) * T)/(Annualized Volatility * (T0.5))



The formula for d2 is:



d1 – (Annualized Volatility) * (T0.5)


   Special Considerations  

The Heston Model is noteworthy because it seeks to provide for one of the main limitations of the Black-Scholes model which holds volatility constant. The use of stochastic variables in the Heston Model provides for the notion that volatility is not constant but arbitrary.



Both the basic Black-Scholes model and the Heston Model still only provide option pricing estimates for a European option, which is an option that can only be exercised on its expiration date. Various research and models have been studied for pricing American options through both Black-Scholes and the Heston Model. These variations provide estimates for options that can be exercised on any date leading up to the expiration date, as is the case for American options.
What Is Heterodox Economics?  

Heterodox economics is the analysis and study of economic principles considered outside of mainstream or orthodox schools of economic thought. Schools of heterodox economics vary widely and have few common characteristics other than propounding theories, assumptions, or methodologies that fall outside of or contradict the mainstream Keynesian and neoclassical movements.



Heterodox schools of thought include far-left theories such as socialism, Marxism, and post-Keynesian economics, as well as those associated with radical free-market economics such as the Austrian school. Heterodox economists often employ research methods and tools that originate in other disciplines, such as psychology or physics, to economic questions.





Key Takeaways

Heterodox economics refers to all the various theories and schools of thought that are outside the mainstream Keynesian and neoclassical approaches.A wide variety of competing and conflicting economic schools of thought can at any given time be classified as heterodox economics, though their ideas may eventually enter the mainstream.Heterodox economists advocate theories, assumptions, or methods that may be radically different from or contradict those used in mainstream economics.Heterodox economics plays an important role in developing new ideas and challenging established schools of economic thought.Heterodox theories such as the Austrian business cycle theory (ABCT) and Minsky's financial instability hypothesis rose to public prominence during the Great Recession because they provided powerful explanations that mainstream theories didn't.


   Understanding Heterodox Economics  

Heterodox economics is an umbrella term that refers to many different branches or approaches to studying economics, all of which fall outside of the current mainstream of economic thought. There is no specific commonality between these various approaches beyond their disagreement with the mainstream approach, and they are often directly opposed to one another in their assumptions, research programs, and conclusions, as much or more so than they are opposed to mainstream economics.



Heterodox economics is also a temporally relative term because what is considered heterodox at one point in time may have previously been the mainstream view in the past, or may become adopted and accepted as part of the mainstream orthodoxy in the future. For example, the classical view that economies are largely self-correcting at the macroeconomic level in the same way that (microeconomic) markets are was the mainstream theory until the 1930's when it was replaced by the now-orthodox Keynesian macroeconomic framework.


   Heterodox to Mainstream  

Previously radical heterodox approaches such as behavioral economics have become widely accepted among mainstream economists and policymakers in recent decades. Indeed, many Nobel Prizes have been awarded over the years for work in economics that at the time of original publication was considered heterodox, but eventually became so influential as to merit recognition by the award committee.



From time to time, heterodox ideas may even completely upset the existing mainstream of economic thought in a process described by philosopher of science Thomas Kuhn as a paradigm shift. Heterodox ideas, by definition, fall outside the current scientific paradigm, until they don't, and then they may replace it entirely. The Marginal Revolution of the 1870s would be considered an example of this type of paradigm shift, as it actually led to the establishment of marginalism as the foundation of the current economic mainstream.



The existence of heterodox economics provides an alternative approach to mainstream economics. They can help explain economic phenomena that cannot be satisfactorily explained or may be simply ignored by more orthodox theories until it's too late or until they become too obvious not to ignore any longer.


   Examples of Heterodox Economics  

Heterodox theories such as the Austrian business cycle theory (ABCT) and Minsky's financial instability hypothesis rose to public prominence during the Great Recession because they provided powerful explanations (and remedies) for the U.S. housing bubble and the resulting global financial crisis, which mainstream theories failed to predict and struggled to address.






Although heterodox economics are constantly being redefined by culture, some popular heterodox economic theories include feminist economic theories, post-Keynesian, and Marxist among others.


   The Influence of Heterodox Economics  

Most of the time, heterodox economic theories are ignored or considered to be interesting but irrelevant curiosities. Their ideas and assumptions simply do not fit into what most economists are taught in university, and may even directly challenge core aspects of mainstream theory and practice.



Although heterodox economics has faced a lot of hostility on the academic side, it has actually shifted mainstream economics toward a more integrated approach as some heterodox ideas are eventually adopted into the mainstream.



Heterodox economics can still indirectly improve and extend mainstream economic thinking by challenging it, even when the heterodox ideas themselves fail to become accepted. Having a range of heterodox frameworks with plausible solutions to economic contradictions forces all economists to question the starting assumptions when approaching these questions. Heterodox economics continually challenges the orthodox school to prove that it really is better in practice, not just by tradition.


   Other Considerations  

There is more pluralism in economics thanks to the competing theories from heterodox approaches, though this has also led to more multi-disciplinary analyses of economic problems. Economics has been very focused on market-based explanations. It may be the best approach for the majority of problems, but most people tend to think there is more to the world than market-based economics.



Heterodox approaches often emphasize non-market aspects of economic phenomena, such as social identity, cooperative collective action, power relations, and psychological biases, which look outside the field of economics for a deeper understanding. They also often seem to fit a regular person's experience in the world and the history of this world better than some of the widely accepted mainstream theories.
DEFINITION of Heteroskedastic  

Heteroskedastic refers to a condition in which the variance of the residual term, or error term, in a regression model varies widely. If this is true, it may vary in a systematic way, and there may be some factor that can explain this. If so, then the model may be poorly defined and should be modified so that this systematic variance is explained by one or more additional predictor variables.



The opposite of heteroskedastic is homoskedastic. Homoskedasticity refers to a condition in which the variance of the residual term is constant or nearly so. Homoskedasticity (also spelled "homoscedasticity") is one assumption of linear regression modeling. Homoskedasticity suggests that the regression model may be well-defined, meaning that it provides a good explanation of the performance of the dependent variable.


   BREAKING DOWN Heteroskedastic  

Heteroskedasticity is an important concept in regression modeling, and in the investment world, regression models are used to explain the performance of securities and investment portfolios. The most well-known of these is the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM), which explains the performance of a stock in terms of its volatility relative to the market as a whole. Extensions of this model have added other predictor variables such as size, momentum, quality, and style (value vs. growth).



These predictor variables have been added because they explain or account for variance in the dependent variable, portfolio performance, then is explained by CAPM. For example, developers of the CAPM model were aware that their model failed to explain an interesting anomaly: high-quality stocks, which were less volatile than low-quality stocks, tended to perform better than the CAPM model predicted. CAPM says that higher-risk stocks should outperform lower-risk stocks. In other words, high-volatility stocks should beat lower-volatility stocks. But high-quality stocks, which are less volatile, tended to perform better than predicted by CAPM.



Later, other researchers extended the CAPM model (which had already been extended to include other predictor variables such as size, style, and momentum) to include quality as an additional predictor variable, also known as a "factor." With this factor now included in the model, the performance anomaly of low volatility stocks was accounted for. These models, known as multi-factor models, form the basis of factor investing and smart beta.
What Is Heteroskedasticity?  

In statistics, heteroskedasticity (or heteroscedasticity) happens when the standard deviations of a predicted variable, monitored over different values of an independent variable or as related to prior time periods, are non-constant. With heteroskedasticity, the tell-tale sign upon visual inspection of the residual errors is that they will tend to fan out over time, as depicted in the image below.



Heteroskedasticity often arises in two forms: conditional and unconditional. Conditional heteroskedasticity identifies nonconstant volatility related to prior period's (e.g., daily) volatility. Unconditional heteroskedasticity refers to general structural changes in volatility that are not related to prior period volatility. Unconditional heteroskedasticity is used when future periods of high and low volatility can be identified.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019 





Key Takeaways


In statistics, heteroskedasticity (or heteroscedasticity) happens when the standard errors of a variable, monitored over a specific amount of time, are non-constant.
With heteroskedasticity, the tell-tale sign upon visual inspection of the residual errors is that they will tend to fan out over time, as depicted in the image above.
Heteroskedasticity is a violation of the assumptions for linear regression modeling, and so it can impact the validity of econometric analysis or financial models like CAPM.







While heteroskedasticity does not cause bias in the coefficient estimates, it does make them less precise; lower precision increases the likelihood that the coefficient estimates are further from the correct population value.


   The Basics of Heteroskedasticity  

In finance, conditional heteroskedasticity is often seen in the prices of stocks and bonds. The level of volatility of these equities cannot be predicted over any period. Unconditional heteroskedasticity can be used when discussing variables that have identifiable seasonal variability, such as electricity usage.



As it relates to statistics, heteroskedasticity (also spelled heteroscedasticity) refers to the error variance, or dependence of scattering, within a minimum of one independent variable within a particular sample. These variations can be used to calculate the margin of error between data sets, such as expected results and actual results, as it provides a measure of the deviation of data points from the mean value.



For a dataset to be considered relevant, the majority of the data points must be within a particular number of standard deviations from the mean as described by Chebyshev’s theorem, also known as Chebyshev’s inequality. This provides guidelines regarding the probability of a random variable differing from the mean.



Based on the number of standard deviations specified, a random variable has a particular probability of existing within those points. For example, it may be required that a range of two standard deviations contain at least 75% of the data points to be considered valid. A common cause of variances outside the minimum requirement is often attributed to issues of data quality.



The opposite of heteroskedastic is homoskedastic. Homoskedasticity refers to a condition in which the variance of the residual term is constant or nearly so. Homoskedasticity is one assumption of linear regression modeling. It is needed to ensure that the estimates are accurate, that the prediction limits for the dependent variable are valid, and that confidence intervals and p-values for the parameters are valid.


   The Types Heteroskedasticity  
  Unconditional  

Unconditional heteroskedasticity is predictable and can relate to variables that are cyclical by nature. This can include higher retail sales reported during the traditional holiday shopping period or the increase in air conditioner repair calls during warmer months.



Changes within the variance can be tied directly to the occurrence of particular events or predictive markers if the shifts are not traditionally seasonal. This can be related to an increase in smartphone sales with the release of a new model as the activity is cyclical based on the event but not necessarily determined by the season.



Heteroskedasticity can also relate to cases where the data approach a boundary—where the variance must necessarily be smaller because of the boundary's restricting the range of the data.


  Conditional  

Conditional heteroskedasticity is not predictable by nature. There is no telltale sign that leads analysts to believe data will become more or less scattered at any point in time. Often, financial products are considered subject to conditional heteroskedasticity as not all changes can be attributed to specific events or seasonal changes.



A common application of conditional heteroskedasticity is to stock markets, where the volatility today is strongly related to volatility yesterday. This model explains periods of persistent high volatility and low volatility.


   Special Considerations  
  Heteroskedasticity and Financial Modeling  

Heteroskedasticity is an important concept in regression modeling, and in the investment world, regression models are used to explain the performance of securities and investment portfolios. The most well-known of these is the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM), which explains the performance of a stock in terms of its volatility relative to the market as a whole. Extensions of this model have added other predictor variables such as size, momentum, quality, and style (value versus growth).



These predictor variables have been added because they explain or account for variance in the dependent variable. Portfolio performance is explained by CAPM. For example, developers of the CAPM model were aware that their model failed to explain an interesting anomaly: high-quality stocks, which were less volatile than low-quality stocks, tended to perform better than the CAPM model predicted. CAPM says that higher-risk stocks should outperform lower-risk stocks.



In other words, high-volatility stocks should beat lower-volatility stocks. But high-quality stocks, which are less volatile, tended to perform better than predicted by CAPM.



Later, other researchers extended the CAPM model (which had already been extended to include other predictor variables such as size, style, and momentum) to include quality as an additional predictor variable, also known as a "factor." With this factor now included in the model, the performance anomaly of low volatility stocks was accounted for. These models, known as multi-factor models, form the basis of factor investing and smart beta.
What Are Heuristics?  

A heuristic is a mental shortcut commonly used to simplify problems and avoid cognitive overload. Heuristics are part of how the human brain evolved and is wired, allowing individuals to quickly reach reasonable conclusions or solutions to complex problems. These solutions may not be optimal ones but are often sufficient given limited timeframes and calculative capacity.



These cognitive shortcuts feature prominently in behavioral economics.





Key Takeaways

Heuristics are mental shortcuts for solving problems in a quick way that delivers a result that is sufficient enough to be useful given time constraints.Investors and financial professionals use a heuristic approach to speed up analysis and investment decisions.Heuristics can lead to poor decision-making based on a limited data set, but the speed of decisions can sometimes make up for the disadvantages.Behavioral economics has focused on heuristics as one limitation of human beings behaving like rational actors.Availability, anchoring, confirmation bias, and the hot hand fallacy are some examples of heuristics people use in their economic lives.












Investopedia / Danie Drankwalter


   Understanding Heuristics  

People employ heuristics naturally due to the evolution of the human brain. The brain can only process so much information at once and therefore must employ various shortcuts or practical rules of thumb. We would not get very far if we had to stop to think about every little detail or collect every piece of available information and integrate it into an analysis.



Heuristics therefore facilitate timely decisions that may not be the absolute best ones but are appropriate enough. Individuals are constantly using this sort of intelligent guesswork, trial and error, process of elimination, and past experience to solve problems or chart a course of action. In a world that is increasingly complex and overloaded with big data, heuristic methods make decision-making simpler and faster through shortcuts and good-enough calculations.



First identified in economics by the political scientist and organizational scholar Herbert Simon in his work on bounded rationality, heuristics have now become a cornerstone of behavioral economics. Rather than subscribing to the idea that economic behavior was rational and based upon all available information to secure the best possible outcome for an individual ("optimizing"), Simon believed decision-making was about achieving outcomes that were "good enough" for the individual based on their limited information and balancing the interests of others. Simon called this "satisficing," a portmanteau of the words "satisfy" and "suffice."


   Advantages of Using Heuristics  

The main advantage to using heuristics is that they allow us to make good-enough decisions without having all of the information and without having to undertake complex calculations.



Because humans cannot possibly obtain or process all the information needed to make fully rational decisions, they instead seek to use the information they do have to produce a satisfactory result, or one that is good enough. Heuristics allow us to go beyond our cognitive limits.



Heuristics are also advantageous when speed or timeliness matters—for example, deciding to enter a trade or making a snap judgment about some important decision. Heuristics are thus handy when there is no time to carefully weigh all options and their merits.


   Disadvantages of Using Heuristics  

There are also drawbacks to using heuristics. While they may be quick and dirty, they will likely not produce the optimal decision and can also be wrong entirely. Quick decisions without all the information can lead to errors in judgment, and miscalculations can lead to mistakes.



Moreover, heuristics leave us prone to biases that tend to lead us toward irrational economic behavior and sway our understanding of the world. Such heuristics have been identified and catalogued by the field of behavioral economics.




Pros and Cons of Heuristics

Pros

Quick & easy
Allows decision-making that goes beyond our cognitive capacity
Allows for snap-judgements when time is limited



Cons

Often inaccurate
Can lead to systemic biases or errors in judgment





   Example of Heuristics in Behavioral Economics  
  Representativeness  

A popular shortcut method in problem-solving identified in behavioral economics is called representativeness heuristics. Representativeness uses mental shortcuts to make decisions based on past events or traits that are representative of or similar to the current situation.



Say, for example, Fast Food ABC expanded its operations to India and its stock price soared. An analyst noted that India is a profitable venture for all fast-food chains. Therefore, when Fast Food XYZ announced its plan to explore the Indian market the following year, the analyst wasted no time in giving XYZ a "buy" recommendation.



Although his shortcut approach saved reviewing data for both companies, it may not have been the best decision. Fast Food XYZ may have food that is not appealing to Indian consumers, which research would have revealed.


  Anchoring and Adjustment  

Anchoring and adjustment is another prevalent heuristic approach. With anchoring and adjustment, a person begins with a specific target number or value—called the anchor—and subsequently adjusts that number until an acceptable value is reached over time. The major problem with this method is that if the value of the initial anchor is not the true value, then all subsequent adjustments will be systematically biased toward the anchor and away from the true value.






An example of anchoring and adjustment is a car salesman beginning negotiations with a very high price (that is arguably well above the fair value). Because the high price is an anchor, the final price will tend to be higher than if the car salesman had offered a fair or low price to start.


  Availability (Recency) Heuristic  

The availability (or recency) heuristic is an issue where people give too much weight to the probability of an event happening again if it recently has occurred. For instance, if a shark attack is reported in the news, those headlines make the event salient and can lead people to stay away from the water, even though shark attacks remain very rare.



Another example is the case of the "hot hand," or the sense that following a string of successes, an individual is likely to continue being successful. Whether at the casino, in the markets, or playing basketball, the hot hand has been debunked. A string of recent good luck does not alter the overall probabilities of events occurring.


  Confirmation Bias  

Confirmation bias is a well-documented heuristic whereby people give more weight to information that fits with our existing worldviews or beliefs. At the same time, information that contradicts these beliefs is discounted or rejected.



Investors should be aware of their own tendency toward confirmation bias so that they can overcome poor decision-making, missing chances, and avoid falling prey to bubbles. Seeking out contrarian views and avoiding affirmative questions are two ways to counteract confirmation bias.


  Hindsight Bias  

Hindsight is always 20/20. But the hindsight bias leads us to forget that we made incorrect predictions or estimates prior to them occurring. Rather, we become convinced that we had accurately predicted an event before it occurred, even when we did not. This can lead to overconfidence for making future predictions, or regret for not taking past opportunities.


   Heuristics and Psychology  

Heuristics were first identified and taken seriously by scholars in the middle of the 20th century with the work of Herbert Simon, who asked why individuals and firms don't act like rational actors in the real world, even with market pressures punishing irrational decisions. Simon found that corporate managers do not usually optimize, but instead rely on a set of heuristics or shortcuts to get the job done in a way that is good enough (to "satisfice").



Later, in the 1970s and '80s, psychologists Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman working at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem built off of Herbert Simon's work and developed what is known as Prospect Theory. A cornerstone of behavioral economics, Prospect Theory catalogues several heuristics used subconsciously by people as they make financial evaluations. One major finding is that people are loss-averse—that losses loom larger than gains (i.e., the pain of losing $50 is far more than the pleasure of receiving $50). Here, people adopt a heuristic to avoid realizing losses, sometimes spurring them to take excessive risks in order to do so—but often leading to even larger losses.



More recently, behavioral economists have tried to develop policy measures or "nudges" to help correct for people's irrational use of heuristics, in order to help them achieve more optimal outcomes—for instance, by having people enroll in a retirement savings plan by default instead of having to opt in.





Stereotypes

Stereotypes are a kind of heuristic that allows us to form opinions or judgments about people whom we have never met. In particular, stereotyping takes group-level characteristics about certain social groups—often ones that are racist, sexist, or otherwise discriminatory—and casts those characteristics onto all of the members in that group, regardless of their individual personalities, beliefs, skills, or behaviors. By imposing oversimplified beliefs onto people, we can quickly judge potential interactions with them or individual outcomes of those people. However, these judgments are often plain wrong, derogatory, and perpetuate social divisions and exclusions.




What Are the Types of Heuristics?
To date, several heuristics have been identified by behavioral economics—or else developed to aid people in making otherwise complex decisions. In behavioral economics, representativeness, anchoring and adjustment, and availability (recency) are among the most widely cited. Heuristics may be categorized in many ways, such as cognitive vs. emotional biases or errors in judgment vs. errors in calculation.




What Is Heuristic Thinking?
Heuristic thinking uses mental shortcuts—often unconsciously—to quickly and efficiently make otherwise complex decisions or judgments. These can be in the form of a "rule of thumb" (e.g., save 5% of your income in order to have a comfortable retirement) or cognitive processes that we are largely unaware of like the availability bias.




What Is Another Word for Heuristic?
Heuristic may also go by the following terms: rule of thumb; mental shortcut; educated guess; or satisfice.




How Does a Heuristic Differ from an Algorithm?
An algorithm is a step-by-step set of instructions that are followed to achieve some goal or outcome, often optimizing that outcome. They are formalized and can be expressed as a formula or "recipe." As such, they are reproducible in the sense that an algorithm will always provide the same output, given the same input. A heuristic amounts to an educated guess or gut feeling. Rather than following a set of rules or instructions, a heuristic is a mental shortcut. Moreover, it often produces sub-optimal and even irrational outcomes that may differ even when given the same input.




What Are Computer Heuristics?
In computer science, a heuristic refers to a method of solving a problem that proves to be quicker or more efficient than traditional methods. This may involve using approximations rather than precise calculations or with techniques that circumvent otherwise computationally intensive routines.


   The Bottom Line  

Heuristics are practical rules of thumb that manifest as mental shortcuts in judgment and decision-making. Without heuristics, our brains would not be able to function given the complexity of the world, the amount of data to process, and the calculative abilities required to form an optimal decision. Instead, heuristics allow us to make quick, good-enough choices. However, these choices may also be subject to inaccuracies and systemic biases, such as those identified by behavioral economics.

What Are Hidden Taxes  

Hidden taxes are taxes indirectly assessed on consumer goods without the explicitly knowledge of consumers who purchase the product. At the heart of the concept of a hidden tax is the notion that if you cannot see it, your purchasing behavior will be largely unchanged. With the advent of modern transactional systems, visibility into a variety of hidden taxes ranging from highway tolls paid using automatic transponders to music downloads is becoming more obscured.


   Breaking Down Hidden Taxes  

Hidden taxes are everywhere, lurking mostly unseen while effectively raising the prices of many ordinary goods we consume in our daily lives. Most everyone is aware that a sales tax applies when they purchase goods in most states, but not many consumers fully grasp the extent to which hidden taxes are included in the final price of many products.



The goal of hidden taxes is to stay hidden, but one of the most visible of these types of taxation is the one added to cable bills. Cable companies and cell phone service providers are required to include all charges on their statements, but not many consumers actually read all the pages detailing the fees and taxes. The goal of this approach to taxes is to add revenue to the government without negatively impacting product demand through higher consumer prices. It is a balancing act.



Other examples of hidden taxes include taxes on cigarettes, alcohol, gambling, gasoline and hotel rooms. These taxes are typically collected as part of an ordinary transaction, which serves to bury them in the final price, a price that is higher than it would be without the hidden tax.



Other examples include duties imposed upon products imported from overseas. Tariffs added during global trade wars have been linked to serious economic downturns, including the Great Depression. Tariffs are a new cost that the manufacturer has no choice but to pay if they want to continue shipping their goods overseas. Given the interconnectedness of our modern global economy, most suppliers cannot afford to lose international market share, so they bury the new costs into the product cost hoping demand is not adversely slowed. These increases pass along through wholesalers and distributors, who have their own margin requirements, making their way to the final consumer.


   Pro and Cons of Hidden Taxes  

No one wants to pay more in taxes yet there is an ongoing debate about whether taxing those who use “sin products” is fair given they are in aggregate drawing upon social services more than those who do not consume those products. Examples include cigarettes, alcohol and gambling. One side of this argument believes that by making these products very expensive through hidden taxes, consumption will decline. Ironically, one would think in order for a tax to affect consumer behavior the consumer needs to be able to see it, which is not so easily done with hidden taxes. The other side of the argument says we live in a free society where people should be able to pay a fair price for whatever they want. Compounding matters, in the case of known addictive products like cigarettes, consumer behavior is less likely to be modified by higher prices.



Technology is making it much easier to include hidden taxes. With the advent of facial and finger recognition on smartphones, consumers can now make a purchase in seconds without much effort and without closely reviewing the presence of any hidden taxes or fees. Another example of this can be seen on our highways with the rise of automated tolls.
What Are Hidden Values?  

Hidden values are assets that are undervalued on a company's balance sheet and therefore may not be incorporated into or reflected in the company's share price.



So-called value investors seek to uncover hidden values on a company's balance sheet that are often overlooked by the average investor, often through the use of fundamental analysis. An asset that is marked at book value but actually worth more in terms of its fair market price would be considered a hidden value.





Key Takeaways

Hidden values are balance sheet items whose true market value may not be reflected in a company's current share price.Assets like land or equipment depreciated to book value are examples of potential hidden values.Value investors are keen to identify companies with a cache of hidden values, hoping that its full value will be realized in due course as reflected in its stock price.


   Understanding Hidden Value  

The essence of value investing is buying undervalued securities—that is, undervalued relative to their intrinsic values. A value investor will determine a fair value in any number of ways, depending on the type of company, and then compare this intrinsic value to the value accorded to the security by the market. If the discount is attractive enough for this value investor, they will buy the shares and patiently await the potential convergence of the current market value to the intrinsic value.



An asset that is assigned by a company a certain value on the balance sheet to conform to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) may be worth more in terms of fair market value. Intangible assets such as trademarks and patents could contain hidden values, as could reserves of natural resource companies. In some cases, if an asset has long been held at a cost-basis on the books, it could be worth substantially more than what is reflected on the balance sheet. Likewise, if an asset has been depreciated for accounting purposes, especially when using an accelerated depreciation schedule, it may actually hold more market value than it is attributed to have on the firm's balance sheet.


   Example of Hidden Value  

A classic example of a hidden value is land. Land must be held at historic cost according to GAAP accounting rules, but there is a high likelihood that this kind of asset has significantly appreciated in value if owned for a long period of time. If the land is isolated from the balance sheet and valued at current market prices, it would probably have a value greater than what is recorded in the financial statements and perhaps comprise a non-insignificant portion of the company's market capitalization. 



A retailer such as Tiffany or Macy's, with prime property in Manhattan, for instance, could possess this type of hidden value. The value investor would separately calculate the current market value of their properties in the determination of whether or how much of a discount to intrinsic value exists.
What Is a Hierarchical Deterministic (HD) Wallet?  

A hierarchical deterministic (HD) wallet is a digital wallet commonly used to store the digital keys for holders of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum. Anyone with a copy of both the public and password-like private key can control the cryptocurrency in the account.





Key Takeaways

A hierarchical deterministic wallet is a digital wallet commonly used to store the keys for holders of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum.To prevent hacking these keys must be randomly generated and backed up in the wallet.HD wallets enable a series of key pairs to be created from one random seed, providing convenience and manageability as well as high-level security.


   Understanding Hierarchical Deterministic (HD) Wallets  

In the cryptocurrency world, wallets contain keys instead of coins. A cryptocurrency wallet has two keys: a public key or address, which acts much like an account number, and a private key that the holder uses to transfer funds to other accounts. The private key is much like a password. Someone transferring Bitcoin from their account, for example, would use their private key to authorize the transaction.



This combination of public and private keys is designed to ensure security from hackers as well as anonymity in transactions. Because the pair of keys enables the transfer of someone's cryptocurrency, it is critical that the private key remains safe. To this end, the keys are generated randomly.



Each key must be backed up in the wallet to prevent it and the funds it is linked to from becoming irrevocably lost to the owner. But to ensure privacy—one of the purposes driving the creation of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies—and limit the use of public keys to one transaction each, a new pair of keys would need to be created for each transaction. This can get difficult to manage over time.



Deterministic wallets were created to offer a solution, one in which all keys can be traced back to an original random seed, usually a set of random words, and a hash function. With a deterministic wallet, the original seed is enough to recover all private and public keys, therefore requiring only a single backup at the time of creation.


   Deterministic vs. Hierarchical Deterministic Wallets  

HD Wallets are the most advanced type of deterministic wallet. They contain keys in a tree structure, in which parent keys can produce children keys, which can produce grandchildren keys, and so on, infinitely. The cryptocurrency holder can use the tree structure to organize transactions by type of transaction or by entity involved, such as departments or subsidiaries.



Like simple deterministic wallets, all HD wallets are created from a single master root seed, usually represented by a mnemonic word sequence, which makes it easier for account holders to transcribe and store. But HD wallets also offer the option of creating public keys without having to access the corresponding private keys. This means they can be used on insecure servers or in a receive-only mode.
The hierarchy-of-effects theory is a model of how advertising influences a consumer's decision to purchase or not purchase a product or service. The hierarchy represents the progression of learning and decision-making consumer experiences as a result of advertising. A hierarchy-of-effects model is used to set up a structured series of advertising message objectives for a particular product, to build upon each successive objective until a sale is ultimately made. The objectives of a campaign are (in order of delivery): awareness, knowledge, liking, preference, conviction, and purchase.


   Breaking Down Hierarchy-Of-Effects Theory  

The hierarchy-of-effects theory is an advanced advertising strategy in that it approaches the sale of a good through well-developed, persuasive advertising messages designed to build brand awareness over time. While an immediate purchase would be preferred, companies using this strategy expect consumers to need a longer decision-making process. The goal of advertisers is to guide a potential customer through all six stages of the hierarchy.



The behaviors associated with the hierarchy-of-effects theory can be boiled down to "think," "feel," and "do," or cognitive, affective, and conative behaviors. The hierarchy-of-effects model was created by Robert J. Lavidge and Gary A. Steiner in their 1961 article A Model for Predictive Measurements of Advertising Effectiveness.


   Hierarchy-Of-Effects Theory Stages  

The awareness and knowledge (or cognitive) stages are when a consumer is informed about a product or service, and how they process the information they have been given. For advertisers, it is essential to key brand information in this cognitive stage. The information is given in a useful and easily understood fashion that compels the prospective customer to learn more and make a connection with a product.



The liking and preference (or affective) stages are when customers form feelings about a brand. The affective phase is not a time when an advertiser should focus on the product, its positive attributes, or its technical abilities. Instead, advertisers should attempt to appeal to a consumer's values, emotions, self-esteem, or lifestyle.



The conviction and purchase (or conative) stages focus on actions. During the conative stage, the advertiser attempts to compel a potential customer to act on the information they have learned and the emotional connection they have formed with a brand by completing a purchase. It may involve the conversion of doubts about a product or service into an action. In these stages, advertisers should attempt to convince potential customers that they need a product or service, possibly by offering a test drive or sample item. Advertisers should also build a level of trust with them by focusing on the quality, usefulness, and popularity of a product or service.
What Is the Hierarchy of GAAP?  

The hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) refers to a four-level framework that classifies the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) guidance on accounting practices and standards by their level of authority. Top-level guidance typically addresses broad accounting issues while those at a lower level deal with more technical issues.





Key Takeaways

The GAAP hierarchy is a four-tiered framework for selecting the principles that accountants should use in preparing financial statements of nongovernmental entities.Because multiple organizations regulate separate parts of the accounting world, there was a need to identify the most relevant standards for various accounting topics.The hierarchy of GAAP identifies which standards and best practices are the most authoritative for a particular instance or problem.If no information on the topic is given at the higher levels, the accountant should look to the next level down for relevant pronouncements.


   Understanding the Hierarchy of GAAP  

With multiple regulatory bodies overseeing various parts of the accounting profession, there was a need to pinpoint the most relevant and authoritative guidance on accounting topics. Additionally, each regulatory body releases accounting guidance in multiple formats that have varying levels of authority. The hierarchy of GAAP is designed to improve consistency and comparability within financial reporting. It is a framework for selecting the principles that accountants should use in preparing financial statements of nongovernmental entities in conformity with U.S. GAAP.


  Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)  

The FASB, formed in 1973, is an independent nonprofit organization that is responsible for establishing accounting and financial reporting standards for public and private companies and nonprofit organizations in the United States. This allows for more standardized reporting, enabling investors and other financial statement users to better compare the financial statements of multiple companies within a common sector or industry.


  Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)  

The SEC, created in 1934, is an independent federal government agency responsible for protecting investors, maintaining fair and orderly functioning of the securities markets, and facilitating capital formation. The SEC sets forth reporting standards and regulations for public companies.


  American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA)  

The AICPA, founded in 1887, is the non-profit professional organization that represents certified public accountants (CPAs) in the United States. Among other tasks, the AICPA develops standards for external audits of private companies.


   Requirements for the Hierarchy of GAAP  

There are four levels of the GAAP hierarchy. The top of the hierarchy is the most authoritative guidance. An accountant researching a given topic should consult first with the highest level for relevant advice. If no information on the topic is given at the higher levels, the accountant should look to the next level for relevant pronouncements.



At the top of the GAAP hierarchy are statements and interpretations by the FASB, rules and interpretive releases by the SEC (for all SEC registrants), and accounting research bulletins and opinions issued by the AICPA.The second level consists of FASB Technical Bulletins and, if cleared by the FASB, the AICPA Industry Audit and Accounting Guides and Statements of Position.On the third level are AICPA Accounting Standards Executive Committee Practice Bulletins, consensus positions of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF), and topics discussed in Appendix D of EITF Abstracts.On the lowest level are FASB implementation guides, AICPA Accounting Interpretations, and AICPA Industry Audit and Accounting Guides and Statements of Position not cleared by the FASB. Also included on the lowest level are accounting practices that are widely recognized and commonly used, either in general or within a given industry.



The FASB's Statement of Accounting Standards No. 162 provides a detailed explanation of the hierarchy.
What Is a High Beta Index?  

A high beta index is a basket of stocks that exhibits greater volatility than a broad market index such as the S&P 500 Index. The S&P 500 High Beta Index is the most well-known of these indexes. It tracks the performance of 100 companies in the S&P 500 that are the most sensitive to changes in market returns.﻿﻿



Beta is the amount of volatility or systematic risk an asset exhibits compared to the market as a whole. Besides the flagship large-cap index, Standard and Poor's offers a number of high beta variations for small-cap, mid-cap and other market indexes.﻿ 


   High Beta Index Explained  

High beta index companies exhibit greater sensitivity than the broader market. Sensitivity is measured by the beta of an individual stock. A beta of 1 indicates the asset moves in line with the market. Anything less than 1 represents an asset less volatile than the market, while greater than 1 suggests a more volatile asset.



For example, a beta of 1.2 means the asset is 20% more volatile than the market. Conversely, a beta of 0.70 is theoretically 30% less volatile than the market. Beta is measured against a widely followed index such as the S&P 500 Index. 



Gaining exposure to a high beta index requires an investment vehicle such as an exchange traded fund (ETF). The Invesco S&P 500 High Beta ETF (SPHB) is a widely traded asset that tracks volatile assets in the broader market. The ETF has underperformed the underlying S&P 500 Index since its inception.﻿﻿﻿ Financial companies constitute nearly 30% of the fund's assets, with Discover Financial Services (DFS), Lincoln National Corp (LNC) and Invesco (IVZ) among its largest holdings.﻿﻿﻿


   Limitations of a High Beta Index  

Contrary to popular belief, high beta or volatility doesn't necessarily translate into greater returns. For many years, the High Beta S&P 500 Index has underperformed its underlying benchmark.﻿﻿﻿ This occurred during a period of unyielding improvement in the broader market.



Instead, research shows that low volatility stocks tend to earn greater risk-adjusted returns than high volatility stocks. The reason low beta tends to outperform can be attributed to investment behavioral biases, such as the representative heuristic and overconfidence. In addition, sector selection and other fundamental criteria play an important role in the volatility and performance of a high beta index.
What Is a High Close?  

A high close is a trading strategy that stock manipulators use that entails making small trades at high prices during the final minutes of trading so as to give the impression that the stock performed really well.





Key Takeaways

A high close is a stock manipulation tactic in which small trades are made at high prices during the final minutes of trading.The use of a high close is especially popular in stocks with low liquidity and a high degree of information asymmetry.Indicators like candlestick charts can help investors determine if there were any trading manipulations.


   Understanding a High Close  

A high close occurs at the end of a trading session in the financial markets. The closing price is the price of the final trade before the close of the trading session. These prices are used to create traditional line stock charts. They are also used to calculate moving averages.



Since closing prices are widely followed, they can be manipulated by traders to produce the appearance of a rally in a stock. This practice, known as a high close, is especially prevalent with micro-cap stocks that have limited liquidity (since less dollar volume is needed to move the price higher). Closing prices can also inflate the price of stock derivatives that might form the basis of that derivative. Similarly, mutual fund net asset values are also calculated using closing prices.



Most of the manipulation that occurs through high closing happens at the end of a month or quarter. Stocks with low levels of liquidity and a high level of information asymmetry are especially susceptible to manipulation.


   Special Considerations  

A 2000 report called "High Closing" by Joel Fried, an economist at the University of Western Ontario, stated that there was "no material economic consequence" to a high close as long as there were several investors who acted, meaning traded the stock, based on fundamentals.﻿﻿



Traders should be wary of using closing prices as a gauge of micro- and small-cap stock successes and look at candlestick charts and other indicators for added insight. Given that closing prices are watched by most serious investors, stock manipulators hope to create a buzz on a particular stock in order to attract investors.


   High Close and Stock Manipulations  

Stock manipulation is the act of artificially inflating or deflating the price of a security, a practice that includes the high close. These manipulations are a form of illegal trading that results in personal gain.﻿﻿﻿



While illegal, regulators often find these manipulations hard to detect. The manipulator generally sticks with the stocks of smaller companies, as it’s much easier to manipulate their share prices. Penny stocks offer more-frequent targets compared to medium and large-cap firms, which are more closely scrutinized by analysts. Stock manipulation is also called price manipulation, market manipulation, or is simply referred to as manipulation.



In addition to the high close, other kinds of manipulations include the pump and dump, the most frequently used manipulation, which artificially inflates a micro-cap stock and then sells out, leaving later followers to hold the bag. There is also the poop and scoop, the inverse of the pump and dump, which may be less common because it is much more difficult to besmirch the reputation of a solid company with a good reputation than to inflate the reputation of an unknown company.






High closing is a form of stock manipulation and it can run afoul of regulators if abused.


   Example of a High Close  

Suppose company ABC's stock price trades at $0.30 at the start of a trading day. For the last ten weeks, its closing price has been $0.32. Trader XYZ takes a position in the firm, betting that its price will jump to $1 in the coming weeks. In the final minutes of closing for the stock market, XYZ purchases large quantities of ABC's stock. Because ABC already has limited liquidity, the trader's action has the effect of pumping up its price to $0.60.



ABC's stock price has skyrocketed by 100 percent and other traders in micro-cap stocks pile into ABC after observing the price action. The next day XYZ sells ABC in the market before purchasing it back again at the end of the day. XYZ repeats the high close for two successive days, more traders purchase ABC, and, after two days, ABC's price breezes past $1.


   Misuse of a High Close  

In 2014, the SEC charged high-frequency trading firm Athena Capital Research with "placing a large number of aggressive, rapid-fire trades in the final two seconds of almost every trading day during a six-month period to manipulate the closing prices of thousands of NASDAQ-listed stocks."﻿﻿



The trades occurred between June and December 2009 and Athena's intent was to boost available liquidity for these stocks and push their prices up to benefit its position in these stocks. To accomplish its goal, Athena used an algorithm, Gravy, that bought and sold orders for the stock. Gravy made up more than 70 percent of the total trading volume for these stocks during the final seconds of trading at NASDAQ, starting June 2009 and continuing till December of that year. Athena ended up paying $1 million as a penalty to settle the charges.﻿﻿
What Are High Earners, Not Rich Yet (HENRYs)?  

High earners, not rich yet (HENRYs) are individuals who currently have significant discretionary income and a strong chance of being wealthy in the future. The term HENRYs was coined in a 2003 Fortune Magazine article to refer to a segment of families earning between $250,000 and $500,000, but not having much left after taxes, schooling, housing, and family costs—not to mention saving for an affluent retirement.



The original article in which the "high earners, not rich yet (HENRYs)" term appeared discussed the alternative minimum tax (AMT) and how hard it hits this group of people. The term has since been used to describe a younger demographic for the purposes of marketing products and services to them. 





Key Takeaways

High earners, not rich yet (HENRYs) are people who have high incomes ($250,000 and $500,000) and the potential to be wealthy in the future.Most of a HENRY's income is allocated to expenses than investments and savings.Luxury brands, such as Louis Vuitton and Tag Heuer, have found HENRYs to be a lucrative market segment and are now incorporating them in their marketing strategies.HENRYs are labeled the "working rich" as their rich status is largely attributed to their working income, not their accumulated wealth.HENRYs can move to wealth by reducing debt and increasing savings and investments.


   Understanding High Earners, Not Rich Yet (HENRYs)  

The HENRYs segment of the population was a hotly debated topic during the U.S. presidential race of 2008. The Democratic party often classified households earning over $250,000 as the "rich" and "wealthiest Americans". One problem with this classification is that it does not distinguish the cost of living in different areas in the U.S.



For example, $250,000 may go a long way in Houston, but wouldn't provide anything like a lavish lifestyle in New York City. These high earners are expected to have much the same lifestyle as wealthier compatriots but they do so by sacrificing their ability to amass wealth.



Many professionals, including lawyers, doctors, dentists, and so on, have the potential to be HENRYs due to the income range for their professions. The fact that much of their future wealth is projected off of a six-figure income rather than income-generating assets makes the HENRYs the "working rich", meaning they won't be as rich if they stop working. More of a HENRYs earnings go into costs than go into wealth-building investments, leaving them feeling like they are more like regular people working paycheck-to-paycheck than the wealthy 1% in America. 


   HENRYs as Prime Target for Luxury Marketing  

​The 2008 election has come and gone, but the term HENRYs has stuck around as a useful way to identify a demographic that is on its way to wealth but not quite there. Marketers see a lot of potential in this transitional phase where a future rich person is still adapting to a rapid increase in disposable income.



The transition is seen as the prime opportunity for a luxury brand or service to insert itself into the HENRYs lifestyle and begin creating loyalty that will continue into the future. As there are more HENRYs in the world than ultra-wealthy folks, there is a deeper market there even if the product or services are marked down a bit in price.



Marketers believe that HENRYs are more likely to be aspirational buyers, meaning that they are starting to purchase the trappings of the lifestyle they one day hope to be able to fully afford. This segment's incomes make up about 40% of household spending, which makes a good business case for companies to market to them.



Luxury brands like watchmaker Tag Heuer and retailer Louis Vuitton—once catering to society's elite—have developed new marketing strategies targeting HENRYs. They use advertising centered around Henrys' core values: uniqueness and identity. They also use popular, well-liked celebrities and athletes to position their brand, promote its appeal, and communicate a message about status.



Many HENRYs appreciate luxury goods for status and often use social media to flaunt their consumption of these items. As a result, Louis Vuitton, Tag Heuer, and other luxury brands incorporate social media advertising and the use of social media influencers into their marketing strategies.


   Investment Strategies for HENRYs  

HENRYs earn substantial wages but have few investments and meager savings. Developing better spending habits, increasing savings, diversifying investments, and taking advantage of tax credits and deductions can transform them from the "not right yet" to the "wealthy."


  Tax Deductions  

Because HENRYs are high wage-earners, they typically pay the most in taxes on income. HENRYs should explore deductions and credits that reduce their tax obligations; less money for taxes means more money for investing.



One way to lessen the burden is to contribute to a retirement account, such as an individual retirement account (IRA). In 2022, individuals are allowed to contribute up to $6,000, or $7,000 for people 50 years or older, and contributions to traditional IRAs are tax-deductible. In 2023, this contribution limit is $6,500 (or $7,500 with the catch-up contribution).



Alternatively, contributions to a 401(k) reduce taxable income as well as long as contributions are made to a traditional 401(k). As opposed to an IRA, these contributions are made with pre-tax dollars, which reduce the total amount of taxable income reported by the employer. For example, if a HENRY, earning $200,000 per year, contributes $15,000 per year to a 401(k), the taxable income reported will be $185,000 ($200,000 - $15,000). HENRYs benefit dually from a reduction in taxes and an increase in savings and investments.



The contribution limit for a 401(k) in 2022 is $20,500, with a $6,500 allowable qualifying catch-up contribution for individuals age 50 and above. In 2023, this limit is $22,500 with a $7,500 qualifying catch-up contribution.


   Debt Reduction  

One roadblock preventing HENRYs from reaching their full rich potential is the accumulation of debt. Most of the burden comes from educational costs, mortgages, auto loans, and credit card debt. Large debt can erode earnings, limiting what can be invested and saved.



To reduce credit card debt, HENRYs can pay more than the minimum amount due and limit the use of the cards. Paying more than the minimum due will reduce the balance faster and the amount of interest applied. Limiting or discontinuing the use of credit cards can reduce the HENRYs' overall debt and prevent more debt from accumulating.



Applying this strategy to other debt can also have the same effect of quickly reducing debt and freeing up income for savings and investments. For example, paying more than the required amount on student loans can reduce the debt quickly, as well as accrued interest. Furthermore, consolidating student loans can reduce the monthly obligation and save money with a lower interest rate and payment.





$80,000

The average amount of a HENRY's student loan debt.


  Diversifying Investments  

Whereas reducing debt is, perhaps, the first step towards wealth, investing is the way to build it. After reducing debt, HENRYs will have more disposable income to invest. Retirement savings accounts are popular investment vehicles for their tax benefits and investment options. For example, 401(k)s allow the HENRY to benefit from employer matching, various investment options, and pre-taxed invested dollars, which reduce reportable taxable income.



Investing in real estate can generate profits that contribute to wealth accumulation. If personal monthly rent or mortgage obligations are not large, the HENRY may be able to pursue real estate investments to generate streams of income; that income can be reinvested into other vehicles for growth. Likewise, the HENRY can invest in real estate investment trusts (REIT) for growth and to avoid the responsibilities associated with owning and managing investment real estate properties.



HENRYs can enlist the services of a professional wealth or investment advisor to select investments suitable to their risk tolerance and investment goals. Developing and following a plan can help them move from being a wealthy prospect to being a tycoon.




Who Qualifies As a HENRY?
There are no universal rules for qualifying as a HENRY, but most analysts will describe individuals with income between $250,000 and $500,000 with minimal savings as HENRYs.




How Do I Become a HENRY?
Becoming a HENRY entails prioritizing your career to deliver a high paying job. A HENRY will have just started out investing, not necessarily having put aside money for a long time. Therefore, to become a HENRY, focus more on your job, career development, and changes to your working income.




What Is a HENRY Millennial?
Similar to a traditional "HENRY", a millennial HENRY are those in the their early 30's earning a six-figure salary. These individuals, especially if they live in a high cost of living area, may leave them struggling to make ends meet or pay current bills despite having a very large income.


   The Bottom Line  

High Earners, Not Rich Yet (HENRYs) is a term to describe people who earn high incomes, usually between $250,000 to $500,000, but have not saved or invested enough to be considered rich. Most of HENRYs' incomes are consumed by consumer spending, educational costs, and housing. Not much remains for retirement and investments, which makes achieving a wealthy status difficult.



To better their financial position, HENRYs can employ different strategies, such as reducing debt, increasing contributions to retirement and investment accounts, and reducing tax obligations, as well as seek help from a professional wealth advisor. In no time they can see the scale move from "not rich yet" to "high society."
What Is a High-Deductible Health Plan (HDHP)?  

The term high-deductible health plan (HDHP) refers to a health insurance plan with a sizable deductible for medical expenses. An HDHP usually has a larger annual deductible (usually four figures) than a typical health plan but charges lower monthly premiums. Plans fully cover routine preventive care, which means that individuals aren't responsible for copays or coinsurance. The minimum deductible varies from year to year. For 2022, the IRS defines an HDHP as one with a deductible of at least $1,400 for individuals and $2,800 for families. For 2023, The 2023 minimum annual deductible rises to $1,500 for individuals and $3,000 for families.





Key Takeaways

A high-deductible health plan is a health insurance plan with a sizable deductible and lower monthly premiums.Only HDHPs qualify for tax-advantaged health savings accounts.An HDHP is best for younger, healthier people who don’t expect to need health care coverage except in the face of a serious health emergency.Wealthy individuals and families who can afford to pay the high deductible out of pocket and want the benefits of an HSA may benefit from HDHPs.HDHPs are believed to lower overall health care costs by making people more aware of the cost of medical expenses.


   Understanding a High-Deductible Health Plan (HDHP)  

A deductible is the portion of an insurance claim that the insured must pay out of pocket before the policy coverage is activated. When an individual pays that portion of a claim, the insurance company covers the remaining portion, as specified in the contract.



HDHPs are thought to lower overall health care costs by making individuals more conscious of medical expenses. The higher deductible also lowers insurance premiums, leading to more affordable monthly costs. This arrangement benefits healthy people who need coverage for serious health emergencies. Wealthy families who can afford to meet the deductible also benefit because it offers access to a tax-advantaged Health Savings Account.



These plans fully cover routine preventive care without copays or coinsurance before the deductible kicks in for the following list (which is not exhaustive):



Blood pressure screeningDepression screeningDiet and nutritional counselingHIV screeningImmunizations for diseases, such as chickenpox, the flu, and the measles



HDHP coverage comes with an annual catastrophic limit on out-of-pocket expenses for covered services from in-network providers. For example, plans set a minimum deductible of $1,400 and $2,800 for individuals and families, respectively (rising to $1,500 and $3,000 respectively for 2023). The maximum deductible for 2022 is $7,050 for an individual and $14,100 for a family (rising to $7,500 and $15,000 for 2023).



When you reach this limit, your plan pays 100% of your expenses for in-network care. If you're interested in taking this route, it's important to understand how HDHPs work and how having one will change how you pay for health care.






HDHPs became more common when HSA-establishing legislation was signed into law in 2003.


   Special Considerations  

One of the perks of an HDHP is being able to open a health savings account (HSA), which is a tax-advantaged savings account. In fact, HSAs are exclusively available to people covered by an HDHP. And you can't have any other type of health insurance to qualify for one.



Regular contributions to the account are made by the insured individual or their employer. These funds are not subject to federal income taxes at the time of the deposit or withdrawal. The idea is to use them for qualified medical expenses that HDHPs don’t cover, including:



AcupunctureDeductiblesDental servicesVision carePrescription drugsCopaysPsychiatric treatmentsOther qualified expenses not covered by a health insurance plan



An HSA can cut costs if you face high deductibles. As long as withdrawals from an HSA are used to pay for qualified medical expenses that are not covered under the HDHP, the amount withdrawn will not be taxed.



Unlike a flexible spending account (FSA), contributions made to an HSA do not have to be spent or withdrawn during the tax year they were deposited. Any unused contributions can be rolled over—indefinitely.



For wealthy families who can afford to self-insure, an HDHP allows access to HSA tax-advantaged savings that they can use in retirement when the early withdrawal penalty for nonqualified expenses no longer applies.






Withdrawals for nonqualified expenses are subject to income tax and a 20% early withdrawal penalty if you're under the age of 65.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of an HDHP  

The high cost associated with HDHPs comes with certain benefits and drawbacks. We've listed some of the most common ones below.


  Advantages  

As noted above, insured individuals with an HDHP end up paying lower monthly premiums. This can save you money if you know that you're only going to use the plan for preventive care rather than more complicated procedures. Make sure you stay within your network in order to reap the benefits, otherwise you'll incur extra costs.



Covered individuals are allowed to use an HSA in conjunction with an HDHP. Remember that HSAs are tax-advantaged accounts, which can be used to pay for qualified medical expenses that your plan may not pay for, such as acupuncture and dental expenses. The money that you deposit into your HSA is tax-free and can help cut the cost of your high deductible.


  Disadvantages  

The main and obvious disadvantage is the high cost associated with these plans. Higher deductibles mean that you have to pay more out of your own pocket for your medical and health care before the plan actually starts to pay for you. This can put a dent in your pocket, especially if you have unexpected health issues with which you have to deal.



You have a high deductible with a plan like this, hence the name. The deductible is the portion of the plan that you're responsible for before your insurer steps in to cover your expenses. Keep in mind, though, that your preventive care is completely covered, which means that you'll have to pay for covered costs on your own.





Pros

Lower monthly premiums
Works with a health-savings account, which is tax-free and covers qualified medical expenses



Cons

Higher out-of-pocket costs
Higher deductibles





   Example of an HDHP  

As noted above, high-deductible health plans are suitable for people who are fairly healthy and don't need to pay for complicated medical procedures. They are suited for people who generally only require preventive care.



For instance, a 30-year-old without any underlying conditions and other health problems may be considered a good candidate for an HDHP. This person may only require certain preventive procedures such as flu shots, nutritional counseling, or health screenings. They would not be responsible for any copays or coinsurance either.



But they may need to save up, in case there is an unexpected medical emergency, as their plan wouldn't cover this expense until they reach their deductible.




What Qualifies as a High-Deductible Health Plan for an HSA?
You can combine your HDHP with an HSA, which is a tax-advantage health care plan. In order to qualify for an HSA, you must be enrolled in an HDHP and not have any other type of health insurance.




How Much Does a High-Deductible Health Plan Cost?
In order to qualify as such, an HDHP must have a minimum deductible in 2022 of $1,400 for individuals and $2,800 for family coverage (rising to $1,500 and $3,000 in 2023). The maximum amount of money insured individuals must spend is $7,050 per individual and $14,100 for families in 2022 (rising to $7,500 and $15,000 in 2023). Insured individuals are also responsible for monthly premiums, which vary based on the insurer.




What Does a High-Deductible Health Plan Cover?
Medical expenses covered under an HDHP include preventive care, such as blood pressure screening, depression screening, diet and nutritional counseling, HIV screening, and immunizations for diseases like chickenpox, the flu, and measles. Insured individuals are not responsible for copays or coinsurance associated with any of these procedures. Non-qualified medical expenses aren't covered, such as acupuncture, dental, and vision care. Keep in mind you're allowed to establish and use an HSA in conjunction with an HDHP, which can be used to pay for qualified medical and dental expenses to help you reach your deductible. The list of qualified expenses was expanded as part of the CARES Act enacted by Congress in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Using HSA funds to pay for non-qualified medical expenses will incur income taxes and possibly a 20% penalty depending on your age.




Who Offers High-Deductible Health Plans?
You can get coverage under an HDHP through your employer. These plans are also available through government health care exchanges.


   The Bottom Line  

It's important to choose the right health care plan—one that fits your medical and financial needs. Some plans make you pay more out of pocket, including copays and coinsurance, but start kicking in after you reach a low deductible. But others come with higher deductibles which are offset by lower monthly premiums. These high-deductible health plans are suited for those who are healthy. can afford to pay more out-of-pocket, and only need preventive care. Although the low upfront cost of these plans may be attractive, it's important to weigh out any other factors, like your medical history and the overall affordability before you sign up.
What Is High-Frequency Trading (HFT)?  

High-frequency trading (HFT) is a trading method that uses powerful computer programs to transact a large number of orders in fractions of a second. HFT uses complex algorithms to analyze multiple markets and execute orders based on market conditions. Traders with the fastest execution speeds are generally more profitable than those with slower execution speeds. HFT is also characterized by high turnover rates and order-to-trade ratios.





Key Takeaways

HFT is complex algorithmic trading in which large numbers of orders are executed within seconds.It adds liquidity to the markets and eliminates small bid-ask spreads.HFT is criticized for allowing large companies to gain an upper hand in trading.Another complaint is that the liquidity produced by this type of trading is momentary—it disappears within seconds, making it impossible for traders to take advantage of it.






   Understanding High-Frequency Trading (HFT)  

High-frequency trading is a type of algorithmic trading. Traders are able to use HFT when they analyze important data to make decisions and complete trades in a matter of a few seconds. HFT facilitates large volumes of trades in a short amount of time while keeping track of market movements and identifying arbitrage opportunities.



Some of the key characteristics of high-frequency trading include:



Trading at high speedsA large number of transactions executedShort-term investment horizons



Because of the complexities and intricacies involved with HFT, it isn't surprising that it is commonly used by banks, other financial institutions, and institutional investors.



It became popular when exchanges started to offer incentives for companies to add liquidity to the market. For instance, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) has a group of liquidity providers called supplemental liquidity providers (SLPs) that attempts to add competition and liquidity for existing quotes on the exchange.



The SLP was introduced following the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008 when liquidity was a major concern for investors. As an incentive to companies, the NYSE pays a fee or rebate for providing said liquidity. With millions of transactions per day, this results in a large amount of profits.






Some of the best-known HFT firms include Tower Research, Citadel LLC, and Virtu Financial.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of High-Frequency Trading (HFT)  
  Advantages  

The main benefit of high-frequency trading is the speed and ease with which transactions can be executed. Banks and other traders are able to execute a large volume of trades in a short period of time—usually within seconds.



HFT has improved market liquidity and removed bid-ask spreads that would have previously been too small. This was tested by adding fees on HFT, which led bid-ask spreads to increase. One study assessed how Canadian bid-ask spreads changed when the government introduced fees on HFT. It found that market-wide bid-ask spreads increased by 13% and the retail spreads increased by 9%.


  Disadvantages  

HFT is controversial and has been met with some harsh criticism. It has replaced a number of broker-dealers and uses mathematical models and algorithms to make decisions, taking human decisions and interaction out of the equation.



Decisions happen in milliseconds, and this could result in big market moves without reason. As an example, on May 6, 2010, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) suffered its largest intraday point drop until then, declining 1,000 points and dropping 10% in just 20 minutes before rising again. A government investigation blamed a massive order that triggered a sell-off for the crash.



An additional critique of HFT is it allows large companies to profit at the expense of the little guys. Its so-called ghost liquidity is also a source of criticism: The liquidity provided by HFT is available to the market one second and gone the next, preventing traders from actually being able to trade this liquidity.





Pros

Large volume of transactions at once
Easy and speedy process
Improves market liquidity
Removes small bid-ask spreads



Cons

Removes human decision-making and interaction
Speedy transactions could result in major market moves
Traders can't trade liquidity







How Does High-Frequency Trading Work?
High-frequency trading is an automated form of trading. It involves the use of algorithms to identify trading opportunities. HFT is commonly used by banks, financial institutions, and institutional investors. It allows these entities to execute large batches of trades within a short period of time. Because everything is automated, trading becomes easy. HFT provides the market with liquidity. But it can result in major market moves and removes the human touch from the equation.




Does the Cryptocurrency Market Use High-Frequency Trading?
Yes, high-frequency trading does occur in the cryptocurrency market. It works the same way HFT does in other markets. Using algorithms, it analyzes crypto data and facilitates a large volume of trades at once within a short period of time—usually within seconds.




How Fast Is a High-Frequency Trade?
High-frequency trading is fast. It can be as fast as 10 milliseconds. In some cases, it can be even less to execute a large batch of trades.


   The Bottom Line  

Advances in technology have helped many parts of the financial industry evolve, including the trading world. Computers and algorithms have made it easier to locate opportunities and make trading faster. High-frequency trading allows major trading entities to execute big orders very quickly. Although it makes things easier, HFT (and other types of algorithmic trading) does come with drawbacks—notably the danger of causing major market moves as it did in 2010 when the Dow suffered a large intraday drop.
What is the High-Low Index?  

The high-low index compares stocks that are reaching their 52-week highs with stocks that are hitting their 52-week lows. The high-low index is used by investors and traders to confirm the prevailing market trend of a broad market index, such as the Standard and Poor’s 500 index (S&P 500).


   Understanding the High-Low Index  

The high-low index is simply a 10-day moving average of the record high percent indicator, which divides new highs by new highs plus new lows. The record high percent indicator is calculated as follows:



﻿









Record High Percent


=




New Highs




New Highs


+


New Lows




×


1


0


0








\begin{aligned} \text{Record High Percent} = \frac{ \text{New Highs} }{ \text{New Highs} + \text{New Lows} } \times 100 \end{aligned}


Record High Percent=New Highs+New LowsNew Highs​×100​﻿



Investors consider the high-low index to be bullish if it is positive and rising, and bearish if it is negative and falling. Since the index can be volatile on a day-to-day basis, market technicians generally apply a moving average on the data to smooth out the daily swings. This helps generate more reliable signals.


   Interpreting the High-Low Index  

A high-low index above 50 means more stocks are reaching 52-week highs than reaching 52 lows. Conversely, a reading below 50 shows that more stocks are making 52-week lows compared to stocks making 52-week highs. Therefore, investors and traders are generally bullish when the index rises above 50 and bearish when it declines below 50. Typically, readings above 70 indicate that the market is trending higher, while a reading below 30 suggests that the market is in a downtrend. Investors should also be aware that If the market is trending strongly, the high-low index can give extreme readings for a prolonged period.


   Trading with the High-Low Index  

Many traders add a 20-day moving average to the high-low index and use it as a signal line to enter a trade. The index generates a buy signal when it crosses above its moving average, and a sell signal when it crosses below its moving average. Traders should filter the signals generated by the high-low index with other technical indicators. For example, a trader might require the relative strength index (RSI) to be above zero when the index crosses above its 20-day moving average to confirm upward momentum.



The high-low index can also be used to form a bullish or bearish bias. For instance, if the indicator is above 50, a trader may decide to trade on the long side of the market only.


   Example of the High-Low Indicator  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020
What Is the High-Low Method?  

In cost accounting, the high-low method is a way of attempting to separate out fixed and variable costs given a limited amount of data. The high-low method involves taking the highest level of activity and the lowest level of activity and comparing the total costs at each level.



If the variable cost is a fixed charge per unit and fixed costs remain the same, it is possible to determine the fixed and variable costs by solving the system of equations. It is worth being cautious when using the high-low method, however, as it can yield more or less accurate results depending on the distribution of values between the highest and lowest dollar amounts or quantities.


   Understanding the High-Low Method  

Calculating the outcome for the high-low method requires a few formula steps. First, you must calculate the variable cost component and then the fixed cost component, and then plug the results into the cost model formula.



First, determine the variable cost component:



﻿















Variable Cost


=




HAC


−


Lowest Activity Cost




HAUs


−


Lowest Activity Units


















where:
















HAC


=


Highest activity cost
















HAUs


=


Highest activity units
















Variable cost is per unit








\begin{aligned} &\text{Variable Cost} = \frac { \text{HAC} - \text{Lowest Activity Cost} }{ \text{HAUs} - \text{Lowest Activity Units} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{HAC} = \text{Highest activity cost} \\ &\text{HAUs} = \text{Highest activity units} \\ &\text{Variable cost is per unit} \\ \end{aligned}


​Variable Cost=HAUs−Lowest Activity UnitsHAC−Lowest Activity Cost​where:HAC=Highest activity costHAUs=Highest activity unitsVariable cost is per unit​﻿



Next, use the following formula to determine the fixed cost component:



﻿















Fixed Cost


=


HAC


−


(


Variable Cost


×


HAUs


)








\begin{aligned} &\text{Fixed Cost} = \text{HAC} - ( \text{Variable Cost} \times \text{HAUs} ) \\ \end{aligned}


​Fixed Cost=HAC−(Variable Cost×HAUs)​﻿



Use the results of the first two formulas to calculate the high-low cost result using the following formula:



﻿















High-Low Cost


=


Fixed Cost


+


(


Variable Cost


×


UA


)
















where:
















UA


=


Unit activity








\begin{aligned} &\text{High-Low Cost} = \text{Fixed Cost} + ( \text{Variable Cost} \times \text{UA} ) \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{UA} = \text{Unit activity} \\ \end{aligned}


​High-Low Cost=Fixed Cost+(Variable Cost×UA)where:UA=Unit activity​﻿


   What Does the High-Low Method Tell You?  

The costs associated with a product, product line, equipment, store, geographic sales region, or subsidiary, consist of both variable costs and fixed costs. To determine both cost components of the total cost, an analyst or accountant can use a technique known as the high-low method.



The high-low method is used to calculate the variable and fixed cost of a product or entity with mixed costs. It takes two factors into consideration. It considers the total dollars of the mixed costs at the highest volume of activity and the total dollars of the mixed costs at the lowest volume of activity. The total amount of fixed costs is assumed to be the same at both points of activity. The change in the total costs is thus the variable cost rate times the change in the number of units of activity.





Key Takeaways

The high-low method is a simple way to segregate costs with minimal information.The simplicity of the approach assumes the variable and fixed costs as constant, which doesn't replicate reality.Other cost-estimating methods, such as least-squares regression, might provide better results, although this method requires more complex calculations.


   Example of How to Use the High-Low Method  

For example, the table below depicts the activity for a cake bakery for each of the 12 months of a given year.



Below is an example of the high-low method of cost accounting:










 Month
 Cakes Baked (units)
 Total Cost ($)


 January
 115
 $5,000


 February
 80
 $4,250


 March
 90
 $4,650


 April
 95
 $4,600


 May
 75
 $3,675


 June
 100
 $5,000


 July
 85
 $4,400


 August
 70
 $3,750


 September
 115
 $5,100


 October
 125
 $5,550


 November
 110
 $5,100


 December
 120
 $5,700






The highest activity for the bakery occurred in October when it baked the highest number of cakes, while August had the lowest activity level with only 70 cakes baked at a cost of $3,750. The cost amounts adjacent to these activity levels will be used in the high-low method, even though these cost amounts are not necessarily the highest and lowest costs for the year.



We calculate the fixed and variable costs using the following steps:


  1. Calculate variable cost per unit using identified high and low activity levels  

﻿















Variable Cost


=




TCHA


−


Total Cost of Low Activity




HAU


−


Lowest Activity Unit


















Variable Cost


=




$


5


,


5


5


0


−


$


3


,


7


5


0




1


2


5


−


7


0


















Variable Cost


=




$


1


,


8


0


0




5


5




=


$


3


2


.


7


2


 per Cake
















where:
















TCHA


=


Total cost of high activity
















HAU


=


Highest activity unit








\begin{aligned} &\text{Variable Cost} = \frac{ \text{TCHA} - \text{Total Cost of Low Activity} }{ \text{HAU} - \text{Lowest Activity Unit} } \\ &\text{Variable Cost} = \frac { \$5,550 - \$3,750 }{ 125 - 70 } \\ &\text{Variable Cost} = \frac { \$1,800 }{ 55 } = \$32.72 \text{ per Cake} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{TCHA} = \text{Total cost of high activity} \\ &\text{HAU} = \text{Highest activity unit} \\ \end{aligned}


​Variable Cost=HAU−Lowest Activity UnitTCHA−Total Cost of Low Activity​Variable Cost=125−70$5,550−$3,750​Variable Cost=55$1,800​=$32.72 per Cakewhere:TCHA=Total cost of high activityHAU=Highest activity unit​﻿


  2. Solve for fixed costs  

To calculate the total fixed costs, plug either the high or low cost and the variable cost into the total cost formula:



﻿















Total Cost


=


(


VC


×


Units Produced


)


+


Total Fixed Cost
















$


5


,


5


5


0


=


(


$


3


2


.


7


2


×


1


2


5


)


+


Total Fixed Cost
















$


5


,


5


5


0


=


$


4


,


0


9


0


+


Total Fixed Cost
















Total Fixed Cost


=


$


5


,


5


5


0


−


$


4


,


0


9


0


=


$


1


,


4


6


0
















where:
















VC


=


Variable cost per unit








\begin{aligned} &\text{Total Cost} = ( \text{VC} \times \text{Units Produced} ) + \text{Total Fixed Cost} \\ &\$5,550 = ( \$32.72 \times 125 ) + \text{Total Fixed Cost} \\ &\$5,550 = \$4,090 + \text{Total Fixed Cost} \\ &\text{Total Fixed Cost} = \$5,550 - \$4,090 = \$1,460 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{VC} = \text{Variable cost per unit} \\ \end{aligned}


​Total Cost=(VC×Units Produced)+Total Fixed Cost$5,550=($32.72×125)+Total Fixed Cost$5,550=$4,090+Total Fixed CostTotal Fixed Cost=$5,550−$4,090=$1,460where:VC=Variable cost per unit​﻿


  3. Construct total cost equation based on high-low calculations above  

Using all of the information above, the total cost equation is as follows:



﻿















Total Cost


=


Total Fixed Cost


+


(


VC


×


Units Produced


)
















Total Cost


=


$


1


,


4


6


0


+


(


$


3


2


.


7


2


×


1


2


5


)


=


$


5


,


5


5


0








\begin{aligned} &\text{Total Cost} = \text{Total Fixed Cost} + ( \text{VC} \times \text{Units Produced} ) \\ &\text{Total Cost} = \$1,460 + ( \$32.72 \times 125 ) = \$5,550 \\ \end{aligned}


​Total Cost=Total Fixed Cost+(VC×Units Produced)Total Cost=$1,460+($32.72×125)=$5,550​﻿



This can be used to calculate the total cost of various units for the bakery.


   The Difference Between the High-Low Method and Regression Analysis  

The high-low method is a simple analysis that takes less calculation work. It only requires the high and low points of the data and can be worked through with a simple calculator. It also gives analysts a way to estimate future unit costs. However, the formula does not take inflation into consideration and provides a very rough estimation because it only considers the extreme high and low values, and excludes the influence of any outliers.



Regression analysis helps forecast costs as well, by comparing the influence of one predictive variable upon another value or criteria. It also considers outlying values that help refine the results. However, regression analysis is only as good as the set of data points used, and the results suffer when the data set is incomplete.



It's also possible to draw incorrect conclusions by assuming that just because two sets of data correlate with each other, one must cause changes in the other. Regression analysis is also best performed using a spreadsheet program or statistics program.


   Limitations of the High-Low Method  

The high-low method is relatively unreliable because it only takes two extreme activity levels into consideration. The high or low points used for the calculation may not be representative of the costs normally incurred at those volume levels due to outlier costs that are higher or lower than would normally be incurred. In this case, the high-low method will produce inaccurate results.



The high-low method is generally not preferred as it can yield an incorrect understanding of the data if there are changes in variable or fixed cost rates over time or if a tiered pricing system is employed. In most real-world cases, it should be possible to obtain more information so the variable and fixed costs can be determined directly. Thus, the high-low method should only be used when it is not possible to obtain actual billing data.
What Is High Minus Low (HML)?  

High Minus Low (HML), also referred to as the value premium, is one of three factors used in the Fama-French three-factor model. The Fama-French three-factor model is a system for evaluating stock returns that the economists Eugene Fama and Kenneth French developed. HML accounts for the spread in returns between value stocks and growth stocks. This system argues that companies with high book-to-market ratios, also known as value stocks, outperform those with lower book-to-market values, known as growth stocks.





Key Takeaways

High Minus Low (HML), also referred to as the value premium, is one of three factors used in the Fama-French three-factor model.The Fama-French three-factor model is a system for evaluating stock returns that the economists Eugene Fama and Kenneth French developed.This system argues that companies with high book-to-market ratios, also known as value stocks, outperform those with lower book-to-market values, known as growth stocks.Along with another factor, called Small Minus Big (SMB), High Minus Low (HML) is used to estimate portfolio managers’ excess returns.Much of portfolio performance can be explained by the observed tendency of small stocks and value stocks to outperform large or growth-oriented ones on average.


   Understanding High Minus Low (HML)  

To understand HML, it is important to first have a basic understanding of the Fama-French three-factor model. Founded in 1992 by Eugene Fama and Kenneth French, the Fama-French three-factor model uses three factors, one of which is HML, in order to explain the excess returns in a manager’s portfolio.



The underlying concept behind the model is that the returns generated by portfolio managers are due in part to factors that are beyond the managers’ control. Specifically, value stocks have historically outperformed growth stocks on average, while smaller companies have outperformed larger ones.






Much of portfolio performance can be explained by the observed tendency of small stocks and value stocks to outperform large or growth-oriented ones on average.



The first of these factors (the outperformance of value stocks) is referred to by the term HML, whereas the second factor (the outperformance of smaller companies) is referred to by the term Small Minus Big (SMB). By determining how much of the manager's performance is attributable to these factors, the user of the model can better estimate the manager’s skill. 



In the case of the HML factor, the model shows whether a manager is relying on the value premium by investing in stocks with high book-to-market ratios to earn an abnormal return. If the manager is buying only value stocks, the model regression shows a positive relation to the HML factor, which explains that the portfolio’s returns are attributable to the value premium. Since the model can explain more of the portfolio’s return, the original excess return of the manager decreases.


   Fama and French’s Five-Factor Model  

In 2014, Fama and French updated their model to include five factors. Along with the original three, the new model adds the concept that companies reporting higher future earnings have higher returns in the stock market, a factor referred to as profitability. The fifth factor, referred to as investment, relates to the company’s internal investment and returns, suggesting that companies that invest aggressively in growth projects are likely to underperform in the future.


   HML Finance FAQs  
  Why Is Fama French Better than CAPM?  

The Fama-French three-factor model is an expansion of the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM). The economists Eugene Fama and Kenneth French developed the Fama and French Three-Factor Model in order to gap the limitations posed by CAPM.﻿﻿ Empirical results from a study published in 2012 point out that the Fama and French Three-Factor Model is better than CAPM at explaining expected returns. This study tests the expected returns, according to the CAPM and Fama and French Three-Factor Model, of a portfolio selection from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). However, the study revealed that the outcomes varied depending on how the portfolios were constructed.﻿﻿


  What Does the HML Beta Mean?  

High Minus Low (HML) is a value premium; it represents the spread in returns between companies with a high book-to-market value ratio and companies with a low book-to-market value ratio. Once the HML factor has been determined, its beta coefficient can be found by linear regression. The HML beta coefficient can also take positive or negative values. A positive beta means that a portfolio has a positive relationship with the value premium, or the portfolio behaves like one with exposure to value stocks. If the beta is negative, your portfolio behaves more like a growth stock portfolio.
What Is a High-Net-Worth Individual (HNWI)?  

The term high-net-worth individual (HWNI) is a financial industry classification denoting an individual with liquid assets above a certain figure. People who fall into this category generally have at least $1 million in liquid financial assets.



Liquid assets are, by definition, cash or money in investments that can be converted to cash relatively easily at any time. That excludes the person's primary residence as well as possessions like fine art and antiques that are relatively difficult to sell and volatile in value.



High-net-worth individuals have at least $1 million in cash in hand and assets that can be converted to cash such as certificates of deposit and government bonds. Lists of liquid assets often exclude stocks and bonds because they can result in losses if sold at the wrong time. However, high-net-worth individuals tend to have investment portfolios that include stocks and bonds, and these contribute to their wealth.



This is the demographic that most often hires financial professionals to manage their money.





Key Takeaways

A high-net-worth individual is a person with at least $1 million in liquid financial assets.The United States had a record number of high-net-worth individuals at 7.46 million people as of 2021.A ultra-high-net-worth individual has a net worth of more than $30 million. In 2021, the wealth of ultra-high-net-worth individuals in the U.S. increased by about 14%.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Net Wealth of High-Net-Worth Individuals (HNWIs)  

The financial industry measures people by their net worth. Although there is no precise definition of how wealthy someone must be to fit into this category, high net worth is generally defined as having liquid assets of a million dollars. The exact amount differs by financial institution and region.



The more money a person has, the more work it takes to maintain and preserve those assets. These individuals generally demand and can justify personalized services in investment management, estate planning, and tax planning.



A high-net-worth individual classification generally qualifies people for separately managed investment accounts rather than mutual funds. Most banks require that a customer have a certain amount of liquid assets, a certain amount in depository accounts with the bank, or both, to qualify for special HNWI treatment.



HNWIs usually get more benefits than those whose net worth falls under $1 million. They may qualify for services with reduced fees, special rates, and access to investor events that are closed to most.






Their wealth allows high-net-worth individuals to participate in initial public offerings (IPOs) and invest in startups that demonstrate financial potential.


   Benefits Afforded to HNWIs  

As a high-net-worth individual (HNWI), you may qualify for banking, investment, and other financial services with reduced fees, discounts, and special rates, along with access to special events and perks.



HNWIs are able to invest in hedge funds, which are generally open only to accredited investors who meet certain criteria, including a minimum net worth. HNWIs may also invest in private equity (PE) and venture capital (VC) funds, which are not available to the general public. They are able to invest in real estate and other alternative assets that are not often accessible to the general public.



These benefits and opportunities vary depending on the financial institution and region.


   Special Considerations  

Almost 64% of the world's HNWI population resides in the United States, Japan, Germany, and China, according to the Capgemini World Wealth Report. The U.S. had about 7.46 million HNWIs in 2022.



Globally, the HNWI population reached 22.5 million in 2021, with a total of $86 trillion in wealth. North America led the world's HNWI wealth with 7.9 million individuals, followed by the Asia-Pacific region with 7.2 million, Europe with 5.7 million, and Latin America with 600,000. The Middle East had 900,000 HNWIs while Africa had 200,000.



The management consulting firm Capgemini separates the HNWI population into three wealth bands:



Millionaires next door, who have $1 million to $5 million in investable wealthMid-tier millionaires with $5 million to $30 million to investUltra-HNWIs, those with more than $30 million



Globally, the ultra-HNWI population numbered 220,000 in 2021. That's an increase of 9.6%. Mid-tier millionaires numbered 2.06 million, while the millionaires next door category made up the largest group at 20.2 million.










Wealth Growth by Region, 2021


Country
HNWI wealth 
YoY growth




North America
$27,675,000
13.8%


Asia-Pacific
$25,330,000
5.4%


Europe
$18,774,000
7.5%


Latin America
$9,004,000
1.8%


Middle East
$3,365,000
6.3%


Africa
$1,828,000
4.7%






Source: Capgemini World Wealth Report


   Types of High-Net-Worth Individuals  

An investor with less than $1 million but more than $100,000 is considered to be a sub-HNWI. The upper end of HNWI is around $5 million, at which point the client is referred to as a very-HNWI. More than $30 million in wealth classifies a person as an ultra-HNWI.



The very-high-net-worth individual (VHNWI) classification can refer to someone with a net worth of at least $5 million. Ultra-high-net-worth individuals (UHNWIs) are defined as people with investable assets of at least $30 million.



This, of course, excludes personal assets and property, collectibles, and consumer durables.




How Are HNWIs Categorized?
The most commonly quoted figure for qualification as a high-net-worth individual is at least $1 million in liquid financial assets, excluding personal assets such as a primary residence. Investors with less than $1 million but more than $100,000 liquid assets are considered sub-HNWIs. Very-high-net-worth individuals have investable assets of at least $5 million, while ultra-high-net-worth individuals have at least $30 million.




What Benefits Do HNWIs Get?
HNWIs are highly sought-after clients for wealth managers. They generally qualify for personalized managed investment accounts instead of regular mutual funds. They also qualify for estate planning and tax planning as well as portfolio management services.




Where Are Most of the High-Net-Worth Individuals?
In sheer numbers of high-net-worth individuals, North America leads the pack with 7.9 million, followed by the Asia-Pacific region with 7.2 million, and Europe with 5.7 million.


   The Bottom Line  

A high-net-worth individual (HNWI) is someone with liquid assets of at least $1 million. These individuals often seek the assistance of financial professionals to manage their money, and their high net worth qualifies them for additional benefits and investing opportunities that are closed to most.



HNWIs are in high demand by private wealth managers because it takes more work to maintain and preserve their assets. The United States boasts the most HNWIs in the world.



Correction—April 30, 2023: A previous version of this article stated that liquid assets might include a primary residence or works of art. Neither can quickly and easily be converted into cash and therefore are not liquid assets.
What Is a High-Ratio Loan?  

A high ratio loan is a loan whereby the loan value is high relative to the property value being used as collateral. Mortgage loans that have high loan ratios have a loan value that approaches 100% of the value of the property. A high ratio loan might be approved for a borrower who is unable to put down a large down payment.



For mortgages, a high ratio loan usually means the loan value exceeds 80% of the property's value. The calculation is called the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio, which is an assessment of lending risk that financial institutions use before approving a mortgage.





Key Takeaways

A high-ratio loan is one where the loan's value is large relative to the property value being used as collateral.A high-ratio loan usually means the loan-to-value (LTV) exceeds 80% of the property's value and may approach 100% or higher.Mortgage loans that have high loan ratios can be quite risky, and carry above-average interest rates.


   The Formula for a High-Ratio Loan using LTV  

Although there's no specific formula to calculate a high ratio loan, investors should first calculate the loan-to-value ratio in their situation to determine if the loan exceeds the 80% LTV threshold.



﻿




Loan to Value Ratio


=




Mortgage amount




Appraised property value





\text{Loan to Value Ratio} = \frac{\text{Mortgage amount}}{\text{Appraised property value}}


Loan to Value Ratio=Appraised property valueMortgage amount​﻿


  How to Calculate a High-Ratio Loan Using LTV  

The LTV ratio is calculated by dividing the amount borrowed by the appraised value of the property.
Multiply the result by 100 to express it as a percentage. 
If the value of the loan after your downpayment exceeds 80% of the LTV, the loan is considered a high ratio loan.


   What Does a High LTV Ratio Loan Tell You?  

Lenders and financial providers use the LTV ratio to measure the level of risk associated with making a mortgage loan. If a borrower can't make a sizable downpayment and as a result, the loan value approaches the value of the appraised value of the property, it'll be considered a high ratio loan. In other words, as the loan value gets closer to 100% of the property value, lenders might consider the loan too risky and deny the application.



The lender is at risk of borrower default particularly if the LTV is too high. The bank might not be able to sell the property to cover the amount of the loan given to the defaulted borrower. Such a scenario can easily occur in an economic downturn when housing properties typically decrease in value. If the loan given to the borrower exceeds the value of the property, the loan is said to be underwater. If the borrower defaults on the mortgage, the bank will lose money when they go to sell the property for a lower value than the outstanding mortgage balance. Banks monitor LTV to prevent such a loss.



As a result, most high ratio home loans require some form of insurance coverage in order to protect the lender. The insurance is called private mortgage insurance (PMI), which the borrower would need to purchases separately to help protect the lender.






High-ratio loans can have higher interest rates, especially if borrowers have a low credit score. Your credit score is a numeric value that represents your ability to pay back debt and shows lenders how much of a risk you are of defaulting. If your score is low, your interest rate will likely be higher.


   High-Ratio Loan History  

Up until the 1920s, people bought homes not by going to a bank, but by saving their own money until they had enough for at least a piece of land or land with a house on it. Then, there emerged building and loan companies, which would lend people the money to buy a house then have them pay it back in installments over many years. Even then, loans typically were for half the value of the house or less. 



By the end of the 1920s, banks were making high-ratio loans for up to 80% of the value of the house. Private mortgage insurance came into being to protect the banks, but all that went by the wayside in the 1930s when jobless people stopped making payments, and the banks and the PMI companies went under as well.



Congress enacted the Home Owners’ Loan Corp., which began guaranteeing mortgages and ratios sunk to 15%. Later, through the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and other agencies, down payments fell to the low single digits and even 0% to encourage homeownership.



This system thrived until around 2007-2008 when the mortgage crisis of 2008 took hold. The sharp increase in high-risk mortgages that went into default beginning in 2007 contributed to the most severe recession in decades. The housing boom of the mid-2000s—combined with low-interest rates at the time—prompted many lenders to offer home loans to individuals with poor credit. After the real estate bubble burst, many borrowers were unable to make payments on their subprime mortgages.


   High-Ratio Lenders  

The Federal Housing Administration offers programs through which borrowers can get FHA loans with an LTV ratio of up to 96.5%. In other words, the program requires a 3.5% down payment. However, the program requires a minimum credit score to get approved for a high ratio loan. There are other offers whereby a lower credit score is allowed with a 10% down payment.



Also, the FHA loans require a mortgage insurance premium (MIP). However, you can refinance once the LTV falls below 80% and the loan is no longer considered a high ratio loan, which would eliminate the insurance.


   Example of a High-Ratio Loan  

Say a borrower plans to buy a home that has a $100,000 appraised value. The borrower can only afford to make a $10,000 down payment, and the remaining $90,000 will have to be borrowed. After approaching several lenders, one finally agrees to underwrite a mortgage, but with a higher-than-average interest rate.



The result is a loan-to-value ratio of 90% or (90,000 / 100,000), which would be considered a high ratio loan.


   High-Ratio Loans vs. Home Equity Loans  

A home equity loan is an installment loan or a second mortgage that allows homeowners to borrow against the equity value in their residence. The loan is based on the difference between the homeowner's equity and the home's current market value. 



A home equity loan is for those borrowers who already have a mortgage, and have paid down some of the mortgage balance, and whereby the property value exceeds the loan balance. In other words, a home equity loan allows homeowners to borrow based on the equity in the house. A high-ratio loan, on the other hand, can have a loan value that approaches 100% of the value of the property.
What Is a High-Speed Data Feed?  

High-speed data feeds transmit data such as price quotes and yields without delays and are used in high-frequency trading (HFT) for real-time data analysis.



These data feeds may be transmitted over fiber optic cable, microwave frequency broadcast, or via co-location at exchange server sites. Since HFT profitability depends on low latency, these and other financial firms have collectively invested billions of dollars in building upgraded high-speed data feeds.





Key Takeaways

High-speed data feeds are ultra low-latency data connections that provide real-time information and executions for algorithmic and high-frequency traders.High-frequency traders invest heavily to obtain the fastest networks and data feeds to gain a competitive edge in trading.The biggest determinant of latency is the distance that the signal has to travel or the length of the physical cable (usually fiber-optic) that carries data from one point to another.Since light in a vacuum travels at 186,000 miles per second, an HFT firm with its servers co-located within an exchange would have a lower latency—and hence a trading edge—than a rival firm located even a few miles away.


   How a High-Speed Data Feed Works  

High-speed data feeds provide computerized algorithmic traders with faster more reliable data. Because HFT is driven by faster access to data, there has been a technological arms race, as data feeds and transactions approach the speed of light. HFT creates natural monopolies in market data, which critics say has given high-frequency traders an unfair advantage over institutional and retail investors.



Advocates claim HFT has a beneficial role in the market, deepening market liquidity and pricing securities more efficiently than other intermediaries, and lowering trading costs for everyone by tightening spreads. To maintain a fair and orderly market, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) introduced designated market makers in 2008 to facilitate price discovery and provide liquidity to both institutional and retail investors—much of it electronically through HFT.



The HFT industry has used many controversial predatory trading practices—as our guide to HFT terminology outlines—such as front running, where traders detect incoming orders and jump in front of them before they can be executed. Investors say that because there are so many HFTs in the market, it reduces long-run returns because they take a share of the profit.



Traders at banks and institutions began to see the effects of HFT on their large orders in the 2000s. The traders began noticing how their order flow appeared to be taken advantage of as stocks would race higher immediately after a trader began buying the shares. This caused institutional investors to have to chase the stock in order to get filled. The HFT firms would see the order flow demand and buy shares ahead of it, with the aim of selling sell the shares back to the investor at a higher price. It wasn't until years later that many of the investors learned of what exactly was happening, thus they had to learn to deal with HFTs in the years afterward.






Bloomberg's B-PIPE data feed, Thomson Reuters’ Matching Binary Multicast Feed, and EBS Brokertec’s Ultra are examples of high-speed feeds, which provide investors and vendors market data with extremely low latency—the time that elapses from the moment a signal is sent to its receipt.


   Special Considerations  

The stock market now consists of a vast fragmented network of interconnected and automated trading systems. HFT, characterized by high speeds, ultra-short holding periods, and high order-to-trade ratios, comprises a 50% share of U.S. equity trading volume, which is significant but less than the over 60% share recorded in 2009. Smaller volumes, low market volatility, and rising regulatory costs have compressed HFT margins and led to consolidation in the industry.



To address issues of exchange competition, regulators have introduced speed bumps that randomize entry times and introduce random order processing delays. After the new IEX exchange introduced its alternative trading system, which slows orders by 350 microseconds to neutralize high-frequency traders' advantage, the New York Stock Exchange followed suit in 2017 on its exchange for small and mid-cap companies.
What Is a High Street Bank?  

The term high street bank refers to a large retail bank that has many branch locations. High street banks are major, widespread institutions such as those found in the main commercial sector of a town or city. They offer everyday banking services such as deposit accounts and credit facilities to consumers and businesses. People generally refer to high street banks as such in order to differentiate them from other institutions such as investment banks. The term originated in the United Kingdom, where high street is commonly used as the British equivalent of Main Street.





Key Takeaways

A high street bank is a large retail bank with many branch locations.The term high street, which originated and is used in the United Kingdom, describes the main thoroughfare where major business is conducted in cities and towns.High street is the British equivalent of North America's Main Street.Barclays, the Royal Bank of Scotland, Lloyds, and HSBC are popular high street banks.


   Understanding High Street Banks  

As mentioned above, high street is a term that originated in the United Kingdom and is commonly used to refer to the main thoroughfare where primary business activities take place in cities and towns. It is akin to the term Main Street used in North America. Banks that are found in these areas are, therefore, referred to as high street banks.



High street banks are major commercial institutions that provide retail banking services to individuals and small- to mid-sized businesses. They accept deposits, make withdrawals, provide consumer investment and other savings vehicles, and offer their customers lending services such as overdraft protection, loans, lines of credit, and mortgages. Major high street banks in the U.K. include Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland Group (RBS), Lloyds Bank, and HSBC. These large high street banks offer both branch-based and online banking options.






Just like major American banks, high street banks offer their customers in-branch and online services.



Just like other retail banks across the world, high street banks are coming under increasing pressure because of the competition created by niche and challenger banks. While high street banks serve a range of customers across a variety of demographics, niche banks usually target a specific market or type of customer. For instance, Zenith Bank is a Nigerian-based institution that has a presence in the U.K., providing customers with a connection to the African financial markets.



Challenger banks, on the other hand, try to compete with major high street institutions. Many of these banks forego the traditional brick-and-mortar model and provide an online-only presence. This helps cut down costs, giving customers a chance to earn higher rates on their savings products, while paying lower interest on their debt. Atom Bank is an app-based service that provides customers with savings and mortgage products.


   Additional Activities and Services  

Some high street banks may also have other financial arms. For instance, Barclays engages more broadly in investment banking, wealth management, and investment management in addition to the retail services it offers. The institution serves about 48 million customers and clients across personal, wealth, and business units in over countries. Barclays' primary listing is on the London Stock Exchange (LSE), with a secondary listing on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).



The Royal Bank of Scotland, headquartered in Edinburgh, UK, is part of NatWest Group and was founded in 1727. The bank provides a vast array of services to customers and clients including:



savings, currency, fixed term, and notice accounts
support with cash management
loans including personal, auto, debt consolidation, home improvement, small business, fixed and variable rate mortgage, and agricultural
services such as import and export, structured and asset, and invoice finance



Lloyds Bank is both a retail and commercial bank with branches in England and Wales. It is among one of the Big Four clearing banks in the country. Founded in Birmingham in 1765, Lloyds expanded by acquiring many smaller financial institutions in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. In 1995, Lloyds merged with the Trustee Savings Bank. Together, they began to trade as Lloyds TSB Bank between 1999 and 2013, before simply becoming Lloyds.



HSBC is another one of the four major clearing banks in the United Kingdom. One of the largest international financial institutions in the world, HSBC serves approximately 39 million customers in 62 countries. Holding more deposits than loans, many consider HSBC to be less risky than other major banks. HSBC was able to fund its operations and generally maintain its share price throughout the credit crunch.




What Is the Best High Street Bank?
It depends on the specific services you are looking for as a customer. Some of the major high street banks with a good reputation include Barclays, the Royal Bank of Scotland, Natwest, Lloyds Bank, and HSBC.




Where Does the Name "High Street" Bank Come From?
The name "high-street bank" derives from the fact that these financial institutions were historically located on the "high street" or the main commercial street of a city.




How Many Banks Are there in the UK?
There are 365 businesses in the bank industry in the UK as of 2023. This is an increase of 3.5% from 2022.


   The Bottom Line  

"High Street Bank" is the name given to traditional brick-and-mortar banks in the UK. They are large retail banks with hundreds of branch locations across the country serving mostly individuals and small-sized businesses rather than large firms. High street banks provide the same services and products as commercial banks: they accept deposits, facilitate withdrawals, provide investment and savings vehicles, and offer loans, lines of credit, and mortgages.



Some reputed High Street banks in the UK include Barclays, the Royal Bank of Scotland, Natwest, Lloyds Bank, and HSBC.
What Is a High-Water Mark?  

A high-water mark is the highest peak in value that an investment fund or account has reached. This term is often used in the context of fund manager compensation, which is performance-based. The high-water mark ensures the manager does not get paid large sums for poor performance. If the manager loses money over a period, he must get the fund above the high-water mark before receiving a performance bonus from the assets under management (AUM).





Key Takeaways

A high-water mark is the highest level in value an investment account or fund has reached.A high-water mark is often used as a demarcation point in determining performance fees that an investor must pay.The purpose is to protect investors from paying a fee for poor performance, and from paying a fee repeatedly every time the fund earns a profit.With a high-water mark, the investor pays a fee that only covers the amount the fund earned between the point of entry and its highest level.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding High-Water Mark  

A high-water mark ensures that investors do not have to pay performance fees for poor performance, but, more importantly, guarantees that investors do not pay performance-based fees twice for the same amount of performance.






A high-water mark is different from a hurdle rate, which is the lowest amount of profit or returns a hedge fund has to earn to charge an incentive fee.


   High-Water Mark Example  

For example, assume an investor is invested in a hedge fund that charges a 20% performance fee, which is quite typical in the industry. Assume the investor places $500,000 into the fund, and, during its first month, the fund earns a 15% return. Thus, the investor's original investment is worth $575,000. The investor owes a 20% fee on this $75,000 gain, which equates to $15,000.



At this point, the high-water mark for this particular investor is $575,000, and the investor is obligated to pay $15,000 to the portfolio manager.



Next, assume the fund loses 20% in the next month. The investor's account drops to a value of $460,000. This is where the importance of the high-water mark is noted. A performance fee does not have to be paid on any gains from $460,000 to $575,000, only after the high-water mark amount. Assume that in the third month the fund unexpectedly earns a profit of 50%. In this unlikely case, the value of the investor's account rises from $460,000 to $690,000. Without a high-water mark in place, the investor owes the original $15,000 fee, plus 20% on the gain from $460,000 to $690,000, which equates to 20% on a gain of $230,000, or an additional $46,000 in performance fees.


   Value of a High-Water Mark  

The high-water mark prevents this "double fee" from occurring. With a high-water mark in place, all gains from $460,000 to $575,000 are disregarded, but gains above the high-water mark are subject to the performance-based fee. In this example, beyond the original $15,000 performance-based fee, this investor owes 20% on the gains from $575,000 to $690,000, which is an additional $23,000.



In total, with a high-water mark in place, the investor owes $38,000 in performance fees, which is $690,000 less than the original investment of $500,000 multiplied by 20%. Without a high-water mark in place, which is below industry standards, the investor owes a 20% performance fee on all gains, which equates to $61,000. The value of a high-water mark is unquestionable.






A high-water mark both protects the fund's investors from double fees and motivates the fund's managers to perform well, in order to earn fees.


   A High-Water Mark and the "Free Ride"   

Several things can happen when an investor enters a fund during a period of under-performance. For instance, at Goldman Sachs Asset Management, an investor who buys into the fund at a net asset value (NAV) below the high-water mark will enjoy the upside from the subscription NAV to the high-water mark without paying a fee. This situation is known as a "free ride." It allows new investors to benefit from buying into an under-performing fund without penalizing existing investors. Other funds may avoid the "free ride" by charging a performance fee for any positive performance.
High-yield bonds are debt securities, also known as junk bonds, that are issued by corporations. They can provide a higher yield than investment-grade bonds, but they are also riskier investments.


   What Are High-Yield Bonds?  

High-yield bonds (also called junk bonds) are bonds that pay higher interest rates because they have lower credit ratings than investment-grade bonds. High-yield bonds are more likely to default, so they pay a higher yield than investment-grade bonds to compensate investors.



Issuers of high-yield debt tend to be startup companies or capital-intensive firms with high debt ratios. However, some high-yield bonds are fallen angels, which are bonds that lost their good credit ratings.





Key Takeaways

High-yield bonds, or junk bonds, are corporate debt securities that pay higher interest rates than investment-grade bonds.High-yield bonds tend to have lower credit ratings of below BBB- from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, or below Baa3 from Moody’s.Junk bonds are more likely to default and have higher price volatility.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding High-Yield Bonds  

A high-yield bond, or junk bond, is a corporate bond that represents debt issued by a firm with the promise to pay interest and return the principal at maturity. Junk bonds are issued by companies with poorer credit quality.



Bonds are characterized by their credit quality and fall into one of two bond categories: investment grade and non-investment grade. Non-investment-grade bonds, or high-yield bonds, carry lower credit ratings from the leading credit agencies.



A bond is considered non-investment grade if it has a rating below BB+ from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, or Ba1 or below from Moody’s. Bonds with ratings above these levels are considered investment grade. Credit ratings can be as low as D (in default), and most bonds with C ratings or lower carry a high risk of default.



High-yield bonds are typically broken down into two subcategories:



Fallen angels—A bond that has been downgraded by a major rating agency and is headed toward junk-bond status because of the issuing company’s poor credit quality.
Rising stars—A bond with a rating that has increased because of the issuing company’s improving credit quality. A rising star may still be a junk bond, but it’s headed toward being investment quality.


   Advantages of High-Yield Bonds  

Investors choose high-yield bonds for their potential for higher returns.



High-yield bonds do provide higher yields than investment-grade bonds if they do not default. Typically, the bonds with the highest risks also have the highest yields. Modern portfolio theory states that investors must be compensated for higher risk with higher expected returns.


   Disadvantages of High-Yield Bonds  

While high-yield bonds do offer the potential for more gains compared to investment-grade bonds, they also carry a number of risks like default risk, higher volatility, interest rate risk, and liquidity risk.


  Default Risk  

Default is itself the most significant risk for high-yield bond investors. The primary way of dealing with default risk is diversification, but that limits strategies and increases fees for investors.



With investment-grade bonds, you can buy bonds issued by individual companies or governments and hold them directly. When you hold individual bonds, you can build bond ladders to reduce interest rate risk. Investors can often avoid the fees related to funds by holding individual bonds. However, the possibility of default makes individual bonds riskier than investing in bond funds.






Small investors may want to avoid buying individual high-yield bonds directly because of high default risk. High-yield bond exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and mutual funds are usually better choices for retail investors interested in this asset class because their diversity helps reduce risk.


  Higher Volatility  

Historically, high-yield bond prices have been significantly more volatile than their investment-grade counterparts. The volatility of the high-yield bond market is similar to the volatility of the stock market, unlike the investment-grade bond market, which has much lower volatility.


  Interest Rate Risk  

All bonds face interest rate risk. This is the risk that market interest rates will rise and cause the price of a bond to decrease. The price of bonds move in the opposite direction of the price of market interest rates.



The longer a bond’s term, the higher the interest rate risk because there is more time for interest rates to change.


  Liquidity Risk  

Liquid assets are ones that you can sell easily for cash. When bonds are traded frequently, they have higher liquidity. Liquidity risk is the risk that you won’t be able to sell an asset at the time and for the price that reflects the true value of the bonds.



High-yield bonds generally have higher liquidity risk than investment-grade bonds. Even high-yield bond mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) carry liquidity risk.


   Investment Grade vs. Non-Investment Grade  

You can typically classify bonds into investment grade and non-investment grade. Bonds are rated by three major ratings agencies: Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, and Fitch.



When a bond is rated Baa3 or higher by Moody’s or BBB- or higher by Standard & Poor’s or Fitch, it is considered investment grade. Bonds rated Ba1 or lower by Moody’s or BB+ or lower by Standard & Poor’s or Fitch are considered non-investment grade.



You’ll want to have a higher risk tolerance for investing in non-investment-grade bonds.


   How to Invest in High-Yield Bonds  

You can invest in high-yield bonds in several ways:



You can buy high-yield corporate bonds directly from broker-dealers.
You can buy into a mutual fund or ETF that holds high-yield bonds.



With the latter strategy, you buy shares of a fund that is managed by a fund manager who chooses which bonds to include.



When researching your choices in high-yield bonds, you can read primary documents like the bond’s prospectus, which provides information about the financial health of the company issuing the bond. It also includes the company’s plans for using the proceeds of the bond, along with the bond terms and risks involved.


   The Effect on High-Yield Bonds When Interest Rates Rise  

When interest rates rise, the market value of high-yield bonds can decline because investors can get higher returns with newer bonds.



However, rising interest rates can also help high-yield bonds because interest rates tend to increase when the economy expands, so the corporations issuing the bonds can benefit from increased spending. This means that these bonds would have a lower risk of default.




What is a non-investment-grade bond?
A non-investment-grade bond is a bond that pays higher yields but also carries more risk and a lower credit rating than an investment-grade bond. Non-investment-grade bonds are also called high-yield bonds or junk bonds.




Are BBB bonds investment grade?
Bonds that have a BBB rating from either Standard & Poor’s or Fitch are considered investment-grade bonds, although they are the lowest tiers of investment-grade bonds. Non-investment-grade bonds are rated BB+ through CC. (Moody’s uses a different rating system.)


   The Bottom Line  

Like with any investment, high-yield bonds have risks and rewards to consider. For investors with a high risk tolerance, high-yield bonds may fit their investing goals. These bonds can offer more attractive yields, but they carry more risk and a lower credit rating than investment-grade bonds.



Factor in your individual financial situation, including your income, net worth, investment goals, and risk tolerance, when deciding whether high-yield bonds are right for you.
What Is a High-Yield Bond Spread?  

A high-yield bond spread is the percentage difference in current yields of various classes of high-yield bonds compared against investment-grade corporate bonds, Treasury bonds, or another benchmark bond measure. Spreads are often expressed as a difference in percentage points or basis points. The high-yield bond spread is also referred to as credit spread.





Key Takeaways

A high-yield bond spread, also known as a credit spread, is the difference in the yield on high-yield bonds and a benchmark bond measure, such as investment-grade or Treasury bonds. High-yield bonds offer higher yields due to default risk. The higher the default risk the higher the interest paid on these bonds.High-yield bond spreads are used to evaluate credit markets, where rising spreads can signal weakening macroeconomic conditions.


   How a High-Yield Bond Spread Works  

A high-yield bond, also known as a junk bond, is a type of bond that offers a high rate of interest because of its high risk of default. A high-yield bond has a lower credit rating than government bonds or investment-grade corporate bonds, but the higher interest income or yield draws investors to it. The high-yield sector has a low correlation to other fixed income sectors and has less sensitivity to interest rate, making it a good investment asset for portfolio diversification.



The greater the default risk of a junk bond, the higher the interest rate will be. One measure that investors use to assess the level of risk inherent in a high-yield bond is the high-yield bond spread. The high-yield bond spread is the difference between the yield for low-grade bonds and the yield for stable high-grade bonds or government bonds of similar maturity.



As the spread increases, the perceived risk of investing in a junk bond also increases, and hence, the potential for earning a higher return on these bonds increases. The higher yield bond spread is, therefore, a risk premium. Investors will take on the higher risk prevalent in these bonds in return for a premium or higher earnings.



High-yield bonds are typically evaluated on the difference between their yield and the yield on the U.S. Treasury bond. A company with weak financial health will have a relatively high spread relative to the Treasury bond. This is in contrast to a financially sound company, which will have a low spread relative to the US Treasury bond. If Treasuries are yielding 2.5% and low-grade bonds are yielding 6.5%, the credit spread is 4%. Since spreads are expressed as basis points, the spread, in this case, is 400 basis points.






High-yield bond spreads that are wider than the historical average suggests greater credit and default risk for junk bonds.


   Benefits of High-Yield Bond Spreads   

High-yield spreads are used by investors and market analysts to evaluate the overall credit markets. The change in the perceived credit risk of a company results in credit spread risk. For example, if lower oil prices in the economy negatively affect a wide range of companies, the high-yield spread or credit spread will be expected to widen, with yields rising and prices falling.



If the general market’s risk tolerance is low and investors navigate towards stable investments, the spread will increase. Higher spreads indicate a higher default risk in junk bonds and can be a reflection of the overall corporate economy (and therefore credit quality) and/or a broader weakening of macroeconomic conditions.



The high-yield bond spread is most useful in a historical context, as investors want to know how wide the spread is today compared to the average spreads in the past. If the spread is too narrow today, many savvy investors will avoid buying into junk bonds. High-yield investments are attractive vehicles for investors if the spread is wider than the historical average.
What Is a High-Yield Investment Program (HYIP)?  

A high-yield investment program (HYIP) is a fraudulent investment scheme that purports to deliver extraordinarily high returns on an investment.



HYIPs often advertise yields of more than 100% per year in order to tempt investors. They regularly use new investors' money to pay off long-standing investors. Monies received in such schemes aren't actually invested.



HYIPs should not be confused with a legitimate high-yield bond investment, which offers higher than investment-grade bond interest rates.





Key Takeaways

A high-yield investment program (HYIP) is a fraudulent investment scheme that promises high returns, often in excess of 100%.Most HYIPs are Ponzi schemes where the organizers take money from new investors to pay returns to established investors.HYIPs, often known as "prime bank scams," typically involve the alleged trading or issuance of “prime” bank financial securities.They may include references to prime European or prime World Bank instruments.Warning signs of a HYIP include excessive guaranteed returns, fictitious financial instruments, extreme secrecy, claims of an exclusive opportunity, and inordinate investment complexity.


   Understanding a High-Yield Investment Program  

HYIPs are Ponzi schemes. The organizers of such schemes aim to steal the money provided by the investors that they deceive.



In a Ponzi scheme, money from new investors is used to pay "returns" to more established investors. Money is not invested and no actual underlying returns are ever earned.


  Use of the Internet  

Though these types of Ponzi schemes have existed since the early 20th century, the proliferation of digital communications has made it much easier for con artists to operate such scams.



Usually, an operator will use social media and a website to attract unsuspecting investors, promising very high returns. However, information about the investment itself remains vague. Investors will get no details about the management of the investment fund, how the money is to be invested, or where the fund is located.



These schemes typically involve the alleged trading or issuance of “prime” bank financial securities and may include references to prime European or prime World Bank instruments. For this reason, this scam is also known as the "prime bank scam."


  How to Spot a HYIP  

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) advises that there are several warning signs that can prevent investors from being victimized by HYIP scams. These can include excessive guaranteed returns, fictitious financial instruments, extreme secrecy, claims that the investments are an exclusive opportunity, and inordinate complexity surrounding the investments.



Perpetrators of HYIPs use secrecy and a lack of transaction transparency to hide the fact that there are no legitimate underlying investments. The best weapon against losing money to a HYIP is to ask a lot of questions and use common sense. If an investment’s return sounds too good to be true, it probably is.






HYIP operators will typically use social media, including Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), or YouTube, to appeal to potential investors and create the illusion of social consensus surrounding the legitimacy of these programs.


   Example of a High-Yield Investment Program  

ZeekRewards was a HYIP run by Paul Burks and shut down by the SEC in August 2012.



ZeekRewards offered investors the opportunity to share in the profits of a penny auction website, Zeekler, at returns of 125%. Investors were encouraged to let their returns compound and to increase their returns by recruiting new members. Investors were required to pay a monthly subscription fee of $10 to $99 and make an initial investment of up to $10,000.



In 2017, the U.S. District Court found that ZeekRewards was a $900 million internet Ponzi scheme. About 98% of the funds disbursed were paid out of the pockets of new investors. Burks was fined $244 million and sentenced to 176 months in prison.




Does Anyone Make Money From a HYIP?
The scheme organizers make money when they accept funds from investors. So may those investors who get involved early in the life of the fraudulent scheme and are paid by the organizers with money invested by later investors. But investor funds received by the organizers are never actually invested legitimately.




What's Another Well Known HYIP?
Although it didn't involve use of the internet, the Ponzi scheme run by Bernie Madoff and revealed in 2008 is very well known and remembered by the financial community (including the investors he bilked). His was a word-of-mouth investment scam that involved, among other things, secrecy, attractive returns, a lack of information about the invested funds, and false transaction records.




What Is a High-Yield Investment?
A high-yield investment typically refers to the corporate bonds issued by corporations with low credit ratings. These are legitimate investments, unlike HYIPs. They offer higher yields than other corporate bonds (such as those referred to as investment-grade bonds) to compensate investors for the higher level of risk associated with the credit ratings. High-yield bonds are also referred to as junk bonds.


   The Bottom Line  

High-yield investment programs, or HYIPs, are fraudulent investment programs that are also known as Ponzi schemes. They're sometimes referred to as Prime Bank investment scams because of the alleged investments that their organizers may advertise.



Perpetrators of HYIPs often use social media and compelling websites, in addition to more traditional methods of communication, to attract investors who are eager for big returns. They often guarantee returns of more than 100%.



The key to spotting and avoiding HYIPs is to ask pointed questions about an investment and to take note if you receive no satisfactory details. Look to sources of pertinent information other than the program itself. For instance, contact the SEC to learn whether the operator is registered. Ask your financial advisor or brokerage firm what they know about the program. Most importantly, use your common sense to recognize when a high yield is too high to be lawfully possible.
What Is the Higher Education Act of 1965?  

The Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) is a law designed to provide financial assistance to post-secondary school students and to strengthen the educational resources of the colleges and universities of the United States.



The HEA increased the amount of federal money given to post-secondary school institutions, developed scholarship programs, provided low-interest loans to students, and founded the National Teachers Corps.



Part of President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society domestic agenda, the act was signed into law on Nov. 8, 1965, and has been reauthorized by Congress a number of times since.



The act expired in 2013 and Congress has been unable to reach an agreement on its reauthorization. However, it has been running on temporary extensions since then, with now-familiar programs including Pell Grants and Stafford loans remaining available.





Key Takeaways

The Higher Education Act of 1965, or HEA, has failed to gain Congressional reauthorization since 2013 but continues to operate on temporary extensions.The HEA provides financial assistance to college students, including subsidized grants and loans to qualified post-secondary school students.Pell Grants and Stafford Loans are among the programs created through the HEA.The HEA also directly funds college continuing education programs, school libraries, and teaching resources.


   Understanding the Higher Education Act of 1965  

President Johnson advocated the passage of the Higher Education Act with the stated goals of increasing educational opportunities for the children of lower- and middle-income families, bolstering cash-strapped small colleges, and improving library resources at higher education institutions.



On the 50th anniversary of its passage in 2015, the National Education Association (NEA) lauded the program for making a college education affordable to "millions of smart, low- and middle-income Americans by establishing need-based grants, work-study opportunities, and federal student loans."



It also enabled the establishment of a program called TRIO, which assists educational programs designed to reach low-income and disadvantaged students from middle school through graduate school.


  Titles of the HEA  

The act has the following titles:



Title I: Provides funding for extension and continuing education programs.



Title II: Authorizes grants for the purpose of recruiting, educating, and training teachers.



Title III: Contains provisions for strengthening developing institutions.



Title IV: Provides student assistance through scholarships, low-interest loans, and work-study programs.



Title V: Contains provisions for improving the quality of teaching.



Title VI: Contains provisions for improving undergraduate instruction.



Title VII: Contains provisions for graduate education programs and innovation in post-secondary school education.



Title VIII: Contains provisions focused on a variety of post-secondary and graduate level educational topics.



The Higher Education Act of 1965 has undergone multiple reauthorizations and amendments, including the addition of new title initiatives.





$1.7 Trillion

The total amount of student debt owed by Americans. Pell Grants once covered about up to 50% of college costs. That's down to 30% in the 2022-2023 school year.


   What the HEA Provides  

The HEA established a variety of financial aid options for students attending post-secondary schools in the U.S. Financial assistance programs including Pell Grants and Stafford loans were created as a direct result of this legislation.


  Aid  

Pell Grants, which do not need to be repaid, come from federal funding and are available to undergraduate students. The amount offered under the grants is based on financial need, the cost of the school, and the students’ standing for full-time or part-time attendance. There is a maximum amount of funding per recipient, which is set by the legislation that reauthorizes the grant program.


  Loans  

Stafford loans, which can be direct subsidized or direct unsubsidized loans, are offered to students in need of financial assistance.



Direct Subsidized Loans



For direct subsidized loans, which are available to undergraduate students who demonstrate financial need, the amount of the loan is determined by the costs of the school they are attending.



The interest on such loans is paid by the U.S. Department of Education as long as the student remains enrolled at least halftime in college. The interest is also covered for six months after they leave school.



Direct Unsubsidized Loans



Direct unsubsidized loans do not have financial need requirements and are available to graduate students as well as undergraduates. The college or university will determine the size of the loan in relation to other financial assistance that was received.



The borrower is responsible for repaying all of the interest on a direct unsubsidized loan.



Technically, Stafford Loans don't exist anymore, as the term refers to a subsidized or unsubsidized federal Stafford Loan that students could apply for in the past if they went to schools that participated in the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program.



No loans have been made under that program since July 1, 2010. But the terms "Stafford Loans" and "Direct Stafford Loans" are still used by many schools and individuals to refer to direct subsidized loans and direct unsubsidized loans made under the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program.





The New SAVE Program

President Biden announced a new income-driven repayment (IDR) plan on June 30, 2023 in response to the same-day Supreme Court decision that halted his previous student loan forgiveness plan. Called SAVE, it offers enhanced financial benefits to student loan borrowers. Three important features will launch during the summer of 2023, while the full regulations take effect on July 1, 2024. For more information about SAVE, see the Department of Education’s fact sheet.


   HEA Reauthorization Attempts  

The HEA was reauthorized every five years from its initial passage in 1965 until 2008, frequently with amendments added to it. It has failed to gain formal reauthorization since 2013 but its programs have continued to operate on temporary extensions since then.


  Current Status of the HEA  

The HEA technically expired at the end of 2013, although its programs were allowed to continue to operate as Congress debated proposed changes to it.



In 2020, the Senate was nearing an agreement on a reauthorization and update of the HEA when the COVID-19 pandemic placed discussions about it and many other matters on hold.



Proposed changes that are still on the table include a simplified student aid application process and an increase in the maximum size of Pell Grants.




How Did the HEA Contribute to Post-Secondary Education?
The National Education Association calls the HEA "the cornerstone of college affordability" for Americans. At this time, 34% of college undergraduates receive Pell Grants to help pay for their education. More than 44 million Americans have taken out federal student loans.




What Is Title IV of the HEA?
Title IV authorizes and funds scholarships, low-interest loans, and work-study programs for students at eligible colleges and universities. Its best-known programs include Pell Grants and Stafford loans.




What Type of School Does the Term Higher Education Refer to?
Higher education refers to a course of study beyond the high school level, leading to the award of a degree, diploma, or certificate. This definition can encompass studies at a college, a university, a professional school, or a technical school.




What Is a Title I School?
In the context of the Higher Education Act, a Title 1 school is a post-secondary institution of higher learning that has been approved to receive direct federal assistance to enhance its library or strengthen its programs or is approved to accept students whose tuition is subsidized by the HEA.It should not be confused with Title 1 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. That Title 1 is a federal program that supplements state and local funding for public schools in economically disadvantaged areas of the U.S.


   The Bottom Line  

Today's students were not born or even thought of when the Higher Education Act was first passed in 1965. But its core concept, making a college education accessible to Americans of modest means, has stood the test of time and served generations of American students.



Correction—Aug. 11, 2023: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Title II of the Higher Education Act allocates money to enhance library collections. Title II actually authorizes grants for the purpose of recruiting, educating, and training teachers.
What Is Highest In, First Out (HIFO)?  

Highest in, first out (HIFO) is an inventory distribution and accounting method in which the inventory with the highest cost of purchase is the first to be used or taken out of stock. This will impact the company's books such that for any given period of time, the inventory expense will be the highest possible for the cost of goods sold (COGS), and the ending inventory will be the lowest possible.



HIFO usage is rare to non-existent and is not recognized by GAAP.





Key Takeaways

Highest in, first out (HIFO) is a method of accounting for a firm's inventories wherein the highest cost items are the first to be taken out of stock.HIFO inventory helps a company decrease their taxable income since it will realize the highest cost of goods sold.HIFO usage is quite rare and is not recognized by general accounting practices and guidelines such as GAAP or IFRS.


   Understanding Highest In, First Out  

Accounting for inventories is an important decision that a firm must make, and the way inventories are accounted for will impact financial statements and figures.



Companies would likely choose to use the highest in, first out (HIFO) inventory method if they wanted to decrease their taxable income for a period of time. Because the inventory that is recorded as used up is always the most expensive inventory the company has (regardless of when the inventory was purchased), the company will always be recording the maximum cost of goods sold.






Companies may occasionally change their inventory methods in order to smooth their financial performance.



Contrast this with other inventory recognition methods such as last in, first out (LIFO), in which the most recently purchased inventory is recorded as used first, or first in, first out (FIFO), in which the oldest inventory is recorded as used first. LIFO and FIFO are common and standard inventory accounting methods, but it is LIFO that is part of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Meanwhile, HIFO is not often used and is furthermore not recognized by GAAP as standard practice.


   Some Highest In, First Out Implications  

A company could decide to use the HIFO method to reduce taxable income, but there are some implications to be made aware of, including:



First, because it is not recognized by GAAP the company's books may come under greater scrutiny by auditors and result in an opinion other than an unqualified one.
Second, in an inflationary environment, inventory that was taken in first may be subject to obsolescence.
Third, net working capital would be reduced with lower value inventory. Last but not least, if the company relies on asset-based loans, lower inventory value will decrease the amount it is eligible to borrow.
What Is a Highly Compensated Employee (HCE)?  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) defines a highly compensated employee (HCE) as one who meets either or both of the following standards:



Owned more than 5% of the business at any time during the year or the preceding year, regardless of the amount of compensation received.Received more than $135,000 in compensation in the 2022 tax year and was in the company's top 20% in pay. In the 2023 tax year, the amount increases to $150,000.





Key Takeaways

The 401(k) plan contributions of an employee designated as highly compensated are limited by IRS regulation.The IRS wants to ensure that the benefit of pre-tax contributions applies equally to all employees.It requires that all 401(k) plans perform an annual nondiscrimination test to determine whether or not all employees are treated equally as far as tax advantages go.How much an HCE can contribute to their retirement plan depends on the level of non-HCE participation in the plan.


   Understanding Highly Compensated Employees  

The disadvantage of being classified as a highly compensated employee is that your 401(k) plan contributions are limited. The IRS wants to make sure that the taxable income-lowering advantage offered by pre-tax contributions doesn't benefit one group of employees more than others.



The 5% threshold for HCEs mentioned above is based on voting power or the value of company shares. The interest owned by an individual also includes the interest held by relatives such as spouses, parents, children, and grandparents (but not grandchildren or siblings).



For example, an employee with exactly 5% ownership in the company is not considered a highly compensated employee. One with a 5.01% interest in the company has the HCE status. An employee with 3% holdings in the company will be considered an HCE if the person's spouse owns 2.2% interest in the same company (making the employee's total interest 5.2%).



Tax-deferred retirement plans such as 401(k) plans were implemented by the IRS to offer equal benefits to all workers. Initially, all employees could contribute as much as they wanted to, with the total contribution matched by the employer up to $20,500 for 2022. The figures increase to $22,500 in 2023.



That meant high earners could contribute much more than other employees. Thus, they would benefit to a greater degree from the tax deductions that lower taxable income.



To correct this disparity, the IRS set limits on the dollar amount of contributions that can be made by high earners.


   Nondiscrimination Test  

The IRS requires that all 401(k) plans perform a nondiscrimination test every year. The test separates employees into two groups: non-highly compensated and highly compensated employees. By examining the contributions made by HCEs, the compliance test determines whether all employees are treated equally through the company’s 401(k) plan.



The nondiscrimination stipulations are designed to make sure that the tax advantages of employee retirement plans do not disproportionately favor highly compensated employees.



If the average contributions of HCEs to the plan are more than 2% higher than the average contributions of non-HCEs, the plan would fail the non-discrimination test.



In addition, contributions by HCEs as a group cannot be more than two times the percentage of other employee contributions.






If you receive compensation in 2023 that's more than $150,000 and you’re in the top 20% of employees as ranked by compensation, your employer can classify you as a highly compensated employee. Compensation includes overtime, bonuses, commissions, and salary deferrals made toward cafeteria plans and 401(k)s.


   Other Considerations  

When a company contributes to a defined-benefit or defined-contribution plan for its employees and those contributions are based on the employee's compensation, the IRS requires that the company minimize the discrepancy between the retirement benefits received by highly compensated and lower compensated employees.



If an employer fails to correct a discrepancy, the plan is liable to lose its tax-qualified status. All contributions would have to be returned to the plan’s participants. The employer could also face severe financial and tax consequences as a result of distributing the contributions and earnings.



A company can correct any imbalance in its retirement plans by making additional contributions for its non-highly compensated employees. Or, the firm can make distributions from its retirement plans to the highly compensated employees, who would then have to pay taxes on the withdrawals.


   401(k) Contribution Limits for Highly Compensated Employees  

For 2022, highly compensated employees can contribute up to $20,500 to a 401(k) plan. If they’re age 50 or older, they can contribute an additional $6,500 catch-up amount.



In 2023, they can contribute up to $22,500, plus $7,500 as a catch-up contribution.


   Other Retirement Savings Options for Highly Compensated Employees  
  Open an IRA  

In addition to your 401(k), open a traditional IRA to add a pre-tax contribution of up to $6,000 in 2022. In 2023, the number rises to $6,500 and the $1,000 catch-up amount remains unchanged.



The deduction for contributions is reduced and ultimately phases out if you or your spouse have a workplace retirement plan and your adjusted gross income is above a certain amount. However, you'll still be able to build your tax-deferred retirement savings.


  Open a Health Savings Account (HSA)  

If you have a high-deductible health plan (HDHP), consider opening a health savings account (HSA). While helping you save for uncovered healthcare expenses, they also provide tax benefits.



You contribute pre-tax dollars to an HSA and your earnings grow tax-deferred. You can invest in a variety of securities including stocks, bonds, and mutual funds. Moreover, the money you withdraw from it is tax-free as long as it's used to pay for qualified medical expenses.


  Open a Brokerage Account  

It may not be a tax-advantaged account, but it can help you build more savings. You can invest in all kinds of securities, including those with their own tax advantages such as Treasury bonds and municipal bonds. You can invest as much as you wish and take money out at any time.


  Participate in a Deferred Compensation Plan  

This type of plan allows you to defer a certain percentage of your salary and the taxes you'd pay on it, typically until after you retire. There are no limits to the amount you can defer and the investment options are similar to those available to a 401(k). You'll owe taxes on the plan payouts after you retire.



Bear in mind that a deferred compensation plan is an asset of the company. You don't own it, as you do your 401(k). If the company fails, you won't have access to the compensation you deferred.




What's a Highly Compensated Employee?
According to the IRS, a highly compensated employee is someone who either owned more than 5% of the interest in the business at any time during the year or the preceding year (regardless of how much compensation that person earned or received) or, received more than $150,000 in compensation in the previous year, if that year is 2023 and the person ranked in the top 20% of employees by compensation. The numbers are revised annually by the IRS.




Why Is it Important to Know Whether I'm a Highly Compensated Employee?
If you are a highly compensated employee, the amount that the IRS allows you to contribute to your 401(k) plan is limited. If you contribute more than that amount, it would most likely be refunded to you and you'd owe taxes on it.




Why Does the IRS Limit Contributions for Highly Compensated Employees?
The IRS places limits on HSE contributions because it wants to ensure that the tax benefit of 401(k) contributions doesn't favor highly-paid employees over others. If HSEs were able to make larger contributions compared to other employees, they'd be able to reduce their taxable income to a greater degree.


   The Bottom Line  

When in doubt, ask your company's benefits department whether or not you're a highly compensated employee. Double-check on the amount you can contribute to your 401(k). You also want to be prepared to pay additional taxes on what you may have contributed in the previous year.



For example, if it turns out that you are an HCE and you contributed the maximum, there could be consequences. If your company fails the nondiscrimination test, it will probably refund you the excess contributions you made. This will be considered taxable income.
What Is a Highly Leveraged Transaction (HLT)?  

A highly leveraged transaction (HLT) is a bank loan to a company that has a large amount of debt. They were popularized in the 1980s as a way to finance buyouts, acquisitions, or recapitalizations.





Key Takeaways

Highly leveraged transactions are financing arrangements extended to companies that are already deeply in debt.Highly leveraged transactions are undertaken for the purpose of recapitalizing, buying out a company, or even acquiring another company.Highly leveraged transactions pay the financiers much higher rates of interest to compensate them for the additional risks posed by the large debt load.


   Understanding Highly Leveraged Transactions (HLTs)  

Highly leveraged transactions are risky in that they add to a company's debt load and often result in an unattractive debt-to-equity ratio, but the interest income generated from these transactions is significant enough to make them attractive to investors and financial institutions.



Highly leveraged transactions are thought of as being similar to junk bonds—and junk bonds may well be issued as part of the deal structure. Both junk bonds and highly leveraged transactions face significant default risk, but HLTs are more secure because they have stronger debt covenants due to their structure. Leveraged buyouts (LBOs) are an example of a highly leveraged transaction.



Highly leveraged transactions often include some type of debt restructuring regardless of what the intention is for the financing. This is simply because the existing debt levels of the company must be dealt with for any chance of future success. The end result is usually a complicated debt structure with several types of subordinated debt. In the restructured entity, the lenders behind the highly leveraged transaction often end up with an equity stake in the new enterprise.


   Guidance for Highly Leveraged Transactions  

Guidance for highly leveraged transactions is set out by the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of Currency (OCC), the Federal Reserve Board, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The OCC broadly considers a highly leveraged transaction as one where the borrower’s post-financing leverage, when measured by debt-to-assets, debt-to-equity, and cash flow-to-total debt significantly exceeds industry norms for leverage. Depending on the particulars of the industry in question, customized industry metrics can be substituted for these broader measures.



For a loan to be defined as an HLT, it generally has to fit some combination of the following conditions:



Proceeds used for buyouts, acquisition, and recapitalization.
The transaction results in a substantial increase in the borrower’s leverage ratio. Industry benchmarks include a twofold increase in the borrower’s liabilities, resulting in a balance sheet leverage ratio (total liabilities/total assets) higher than 50%, or an increase in the balance sheet leverage ratio of more than 75%. Other benchmarks include increasing the borrower’s operating leverage ratios (debt-to-EBITDA or senior debt/EBITDA) above defined levels.
Transactions are designated as an HLT by the syndication agent.
The borrower is rated as a non-investment-grade company with a high debt to equity ratio.
Loan pricing indicates a non-investment-grade company. This generally consists of some spread over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) that fluctuates as a function of market conditions.



The guidance on highly leveraged transactions isn't a legal regulation. There is an implied high-water mark of 6 times debt-to-EBITDA for the restructured entity, but this amount has been exceeded many times. With highly leveraged transactions, as with almost everything, the limit is what the market will buy.
What Is Hikkake Pattern?  

The hikkake pattern is a price pattern used by technical analysts and traders hoping to identify a short-term move in the market's direction. The pattern has two different setups, one implying a short-term downward movement in price action, and a second setup implying a short-term upward trend in price.





Key Takeaways

The hikkake pattern is a price pattern used by technical analysts and traders hoping to identify a short-term move in the market's direction.This pattern has two different setups, one implying a short-term downward movement in price action, and a second setup implying a short-term upward trend in price.The hikkake pattern appears to work based on traders' expectations of price moving one way, and then collectively bailing out as price reverses.


   Understanding Hikkake Pattern  

The hikkake pattern (pronounced Hĭ KAH kay) is a complex bar or candle pattern that begins to move in one direction but reverses quickly and is said to establish a forecast for a move in the opposite direction. This pattern was developed by Daniel L. Chesler, CMT, who first published a description of the pattern in 2003. The pattern has four key points:



The first two candles (or bars) of the pattern are of declining size. These are referred to as an inside-day pattern or a harami candlestick pattern. It does not matter whether either of these days closes higher or lower than it opened, so long as the body of the first completely overshadows the body of the second.
The third candle closes below the low in the first setup (or above the high in the second setup) of the second candle.
The next one or more candles will drift below (or above in the second setup) the third candle and may begin to reverse direction.
The final candle will close above the high of the second candle (or below the low of the second candle in the second setup).



Once the fourth characteristic is achieved, the pattern implies a continuation in the direction of the final candle. The following two charts show examples of both setups.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



The first pattern is for the bullish setup. Each of the four characteristics is marked to show where they have occurred in these examples. The second pattern, for the bearish setup, is less frequently observed.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



The name of this pattern comes from a Japanese word meaning "hook, catch, ensnare." When the hikkake pattern was first described by Chesler, he was looking to describe a pattern he had noticed that seemed to trap traders committing capital to a market only to see it move away from what they expected.



From a conceptual basis, the hikkake pattern is made up of a short-term decrease in market volatility, followed by a breakout move in price action. This move (the third candle in the pattern, will tend to entice traders into thinking a breakout has formed. Traders enter the market and set a stop in the opposite direction of their trade. If the price pattern reverses, then the traders' stop-loss orders kick in and may give a boost to the price as it reverses past the boundary of the second candle in the formation (where the stop orders are likely to be).


   Example of a Hikkake Pattern  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



This pattern occurred in the price action for shares of Microsoft (MSFT) and is somewhat typical of how this pattern plays out slightly more than half the time it occurs. The pattern shown in this chart is the bullish setup and holds all four characteristics described above.



Here the price pattern is highlighted by a rectangle, and the implied forecast is for a bullish move in the days beyond the rectangle. This example shows that the chart had a mild upward trend after leaving the boxed area. Not all hikkake patterns play out to the correct forecast direction.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is the Hindenburg Omen?  

The Hindenburg Omen is a technical indicator that was designed to signal the increased probability of a stock market crash. It compares the percentage of new 52-week highs and new 52-week lows in stock prices to a predetermined reference percentage that is supposed to predict the increasing likelihood of a market crash.



Named after Germany's Hindenburg airship that crashed on May 6, 1937, it was conceived and promoted by James R. Miekka in 2010. It was reported that it had correctly predicted a significant stock market decline only 25% of the time.





Key Takeaways

The Hindenburg Omen is a technical indicator that was designed to signal the increased probability of a stock market crash.It compares the percentage of new 52-week highs and lows to a predetermined reference percentage.In practice, the Hindenburg Omen is not always correct, but it may be used with other forms of technical analysis to decide when it's time to sell.


   Understanding the Hindenburg Omen  

Given the inherent upward bias that is built into most stock markets, any occurrence that is abnormal usually leads to a flight-to-safety response from investors. This facet of investor psychology is, arguably, the single most relevant factor that leads to precipitous market declines, or market crashes.



The Hindenburg Omen looks for a statistical deviation from the premise that under normal conditions, some stocks are either making new 52-week highs or new 52-week lows. It would be abnormal if both were occurring at the same time.



According to the Hindenburg Omen, an occurrence such as this is a harbinger of impending danger for a stock market. The signal typically occurs during an uptrend, where new highs are expected and new lows are rare, suggesting that the market is becoming nervous and indecisive, traits that often lead to a bear market.


   Main Criteria for a Hindenburg Omen Signal  

Four criteria must be met to signal a Hindenburg Omen:



The daily number of new 52-week highs and 52-week lows in a stock market index are greater than a threshold amount (typically 2.2%).
The 52-week highs cannot be more than two times the 52-week lows.
The stock market index is still in an uptrend. A 10-week moving average, or the 50-day rate of change indicator, is used to indicate this.
The McClellan Oscillator (MCO), a measure of the shift in market sentiment, is negative.



Once these conditions are met, the Hindenburg Omen is considered active for 30 trading days and any additional signals during that period should be ignored. The Hindenburg Omen is confirmed if the MCO is negative during the 30-day period and rejected if the MCO turns positive.



Traders using the indicator will go short or exit long positions when the MCO turns negative during the 30 days following a Hindenburg Omen confirmation.



By doing so in the past, traders could have escaped the 1987 market crash and the 2008 financial crisis.



Of course, since the omen's rate of success is estimated at only 25%, they also would have jumped unnecessarily a number of times. Traders might use the indicator in conjunction with other forms of technical analysis to provide further confirmation of a sell or take-profit signal. For example, traders might look for a breakdown from key support levels before going short or taking profit on a long position.


   Example of the Hindenburg Omen  

The following chart shows an example of the Hindenburg Omen in an S&P 500 SPDR (SPY) chart.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



In this example, the shaded area represents where Hindenburg Omen conditions were met. The S&P 500 moved sharply lower on high volume just one month after the indicator suggested that traders should brace for a bear market. Traders could have exited their long positions following the Hindenburg Omen and avoided the market decline.
What Is Hindsight Bias?  

Hindsight bias is a psychological phenomenon that allows people to convince themselves after an event that they accurately predicted it before it happened. This can lead people to conclude that they can accurately predict other events. Hindsight bias is studied in behavioral economics because it is a common failing of individual investors.





Key Takeaways

Hindsight bias is a psychological phenomenon in which one becomes convinced they accurately predicted an event before it occurred.It causes overconfidence in one's ability to predict other future events and may lead to unnecessary risks. Hindsight bias can negatively affect decision-making. In investing, hindsight bias may manifest as a sense of frustration or regret at not having acted in advance of an event that moves the market.One key to managing hindsight bias involves documenting the decision-making process via a journal (e.g., an investment diary).


   Understanding Hindsight Bias  

Hindsight bias is when a person looks back at an event and believes they predicted the outcome, even if they failed to act on that "prediction." Unfortunately, this leads people to think that their judgment is better than it is. The idea is that once we know the outcome, it’s much easier to construct a plausible explanation. With this, we become less critical of our decisions, leading to poor decision-making in the future. Hindsight bias is caused by:



Memory distortionForeseeabilityInevitability



The bias occurs when we remember something we believe we predicted and view it at the present time as an inevitable event we knew would happen.



Investors often feel pressure to perfectly time buying or selling stocks to maximize their returns. When they suffer a loss, they regret not acting earlier. With regret comes the thought that they saw it coming all along.



In fact, it was one of the many possibilities that they might have anticipated. Whichever one of them pans out, the investor becomes convinced that they saw it coming. This allows them to make poor decisions in the future unknowingly. Preventing hindsight bias involves being able to make predictions beforehand, such as keeping a decision-making journal, allowing the investor to compare later.






Keeping an investment journal or diary may allow investors to avoid some issues tied to hindsight bias.


   What Causes Hindsight Bias?  

Hindsight bias occurs when new information comes to light about an experience—changing how we recall that experience. We selectively remember only the information that confirms what we know or believe to be true. Then, if we feel we already knew what would happen all along, we fail to carefully review the outcome (or the reason for the outcome).



Hindsight bias involves revising the probability of an outcome after the fact. After knowing the outcome, people tend to exaggerate the extent of their prediction of the event. These biases can be found in just about any situation, including predicting the weather or elections. 



Hindsight bias is rooted in overconfidence and anchoring. After an event occurs, we use the knowledge of the outcome as an anchor to attach our prior judgments to the outcome. The issue may be partly science-based as well. Hindsight bias might not be tied to only the ineffective processing of information but be rooted in adaptive learning.






People are susceptible to hindsight bias because it’s comforting to think that the world is predictable and thus somewhat orderly. As a result, we seek to see unpredictable events as predictable. We desire a positive view of ourselves and therefore try to make sense of it by creating a story or narrative that shows we knew the outcome. 


   How to Avoid Hindsight Bias  

Investors should be careful when evaluating their own ability to predict how current events will impact the future performance of securities. Believing that one can predict future results can lead to overconfidence, and overconfidence can lead to choosing stocks or investments on a hunch, not for financial performance or value. Here are some tips to help you avoid this bias:



Brainstorm alternative outcomes: Think about other things that might have happened in the situation you're considering. Because circumstances change, this can help you in the future if you encounter similar situations.Keep a journal or diary: This will create a record of the decision-making process, allowing you to revisit the reasons you came to certain conclusions. In large part, such a document will help ensure you can accurately reflect on a situation. These decision journals help detail when and how decisions were made. This allows you to understand better what you thought would happen when making the decision. Additionally, weighing all information is essential, including placing more weight on valuable information.Review your journal entries: A decision journal can help allow for better decision-making in the future, as well as prevent second-guessing. Analyzing the results of your decisions will help you understand what went right or wrong and help you identify other solutions or opportunities.






Professions that require a lot of feedback, such as accounting, are less prone to hindsight bias.


  Intrinsic Valuation  

Hindsight bias can distract investors from an objective analysis of a company. Sticking to intrinsic valuation methods helps them decide on data-driven factors, not personal ones. Intrinsic value refers to the perception of a stock’s true value based on all aspects of the business—it may not coincide with an investment's current market value.



To avoid hindsight basis, it's best to use a mathematical model. This takes much of the guesswork and bias out of analyzing a company. Quantitative factors, such as financial statements and ratios, are much more indicative of performance than opinions based on personal experience. Quantitative aspects such as financial statement analyses offer insights into whether the current market price is accurate or the company is overvalued or undervalued.



An intrinsic valuation will also take into account qualitative factors such as a company’s business model, corporate governance, and target market.






Notably, there's no universal intrinsic value calculation. There are many different models or valuation tools to use. Some assumptions must be plugged into any model, which can open that model up to bias.


   Examples of Hindsight Bias  

Financial bubbles are always subject to substantial hindsight bias after they burst. For example, following the dot-com bubble in the late 1990s and the Great Recession of 2008, many pundits and analysts demonstrated their precise knowledge of how events that seemed trivial at the time were harbingers of future financial trouble.



They were right, but other concurrent events reinforced the assumption that the boom times would never end. In fact, if a financial bubble were easy to spot as it occurred, it would likely have been avoided altogether.


  The 80s Computer Debut  

The usual subjects of hindsight bias are not on that scale. For instance, many investors in the 80s were interested in technology, industrials, and materials, but computer software and hardware were only making their debut—many didn't see the industry amounting to anything. As a result, there are quite possibly millions of investors from that time who deeply regret not buying stock in Microsoft or Apple when they "saw it coming."


  Professionals and Executives  

Business professionals will often use hindsight bias in decision making—assuming because a strategy worked previously, it will continue to work. Unfortunately, hindsight bias means executives can and might make risky or poorly analyzed decisions. Anyone that's heard the old sayings, "It worked before, it should work again" or "this is how we've always done it" at work has experienced an example of hindsight bias in the professional space.




What Causes Hindsight Bias?
Hindsight bias is caused by memory distortion, foreseeability, and inevitability, where we remember something we believe we predicted and view it at the present time as an inevitable event we knew would happen.




Why Is Hindsight Bias Important in Psychology?
It is important because it clouds our ability to learn from experiences and make future decisions.




What Is the Difference Between Hindsight Bias and Confirmation Bias?
Confirmation bias is when you look for information to support your beliefs, while hindsight bias is the belief that you predicted an event in the past.


   The Bottom Line  

Hindsight bias is a natural human response to past events in which we believe we knew the event would happen. We then associate that belief with new events, even when circumstances that can affect the outcome are different. It can be difficult to identify when you're affected by hindsight bias, but using tools to analyze events to find solutions can keep you from falling for this psychological trick your mind plays on you.



Keeping and revisiting journals, discussing the event with peers, and analyzing the surrounding circumstances while imagining alternate outcomes are ways you can avoid making decisions when under the influence of hindsight bias.
What is HIPAA Waiver of Authorization  

A legal document that allows an individual’s health information to be used or disclosed to a third party. The waiver is part of a series of patient-privacy measures set forth in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996.


   BREAKING DOWN HIPAA Waiver of Authorization  

The HIPAA waiver of authorization allows doctors to provide information on a patient’s health to third parties, such as researchers, attorneys, other doctors or family members. It became necessary because healthcare privacy has come into increased focus in the digital age; it is much easier for doctors to transmit patient health information via the Internet than it was when records had to be mailed or faxed.



Patient information covered under HIPAA, called protected health information (PHI), is information that can be linked to a specific individual and is held by a covered entity, such as a health insurer, healthcare provider or healthcare clearinghouse. HIPAA defines 18 specific identifiers that create PHI when linked to health information. HIPAA regulations allow researchers to obtain approval to access and use PHI when necessary to conduct research.



Examples of studies that involve the use of PHI include:



Studies that involve the review of existing health records, such as retrospective chart review or other studies that involve the abstraction of data from the subject’s health record for research purposes.Studies that create new medical information because a healthcare service is being performed as part of the research. For example, most studies that diagnose a health condition or involve new drugs or devices create PHI that will be entered into the medical record.



There are some additional standards and criteria designed to protect an individual's privacy from re-identification. For example, any code used to replace the identifiers in datasets cannot be derived from any information related to the individual and the master codes, nor can the method for deriving the codes be disclosed. 


   Getting a HIPAA Waiver of Authorization Approved  

In order for a HIPAA waiver to be approved for research purposes, three criteria for the use of private health information must be met: the health information to be disclosed must present a minimal risk to the privacy of the disclosing party; the researchers must ensure that research activities could not be undertaken without the information; and the research could not be practicably conducted without the waiver.﻿﻿



Should a family member attempt to bypass HIPAA rules through the use of an attorney, usually in the event of a medical emergency, the patient must have already outlined in his/her power of attorney for healthcare that he/she expressly waives the protection offered by HIPAA and allows the specifically designated "personal representative" to know his/her otherwise private health information.
What Is a Hire Purchase Agreement?  

Hire purchase is an arrangement for buying expensive goods, where the buyer makes an initial down payment and pays the balance plus interest in installments. The term hire purchase is commonly used in the United Kingdom and it's more commonly known as an installment plan in the United States.



However, there can be a difference between the two: With some installment plans, the buyer gets the ownership rights as soon as the contract is signed with the seller. With hire purchase agreements, the ownership of the merchandise is not officially transferred to the buyer until all the payments have been made.





Key Takeaways

Hire purchase is an agreement where the buyer makes a downpayment and pays the balance plus interest in installments.These types of agreements are generally used for very expensive goods.Hire purchase agreements are not seen as an extension of credit.In a hire purchase agreement, ownership is not transferred to the purchaser until all payments are made.Hire purchase agreements usually prove to be more expensive in the long run than purchasing an item outright.












Investopedia / Katie Kerpel


   How Hire Purchase Agreements Work  

Hire purchase agreements are similar to rent-to-own transactions that give the lessee the option to buy at any time during the agreement, such as rent-to-own cars. Like rent-to-own, hire purchases can benefit consumers with poor credit by spreading the cost of expensive items that they would otherwise not be able to afford over an extended time period. It's not the same as an extension of credit, though, because the purchaser technically doesn't own the item until all of the payments are made.



Because ownership is not transferred until the end of the agreement, hire purchase plans offer more protection to the vendor than other sales or leasing methods for unsecured items. That's because the items can be repossessed more easily should the buyer be unable to keep up with the repayments.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Hire Purchase Agreements  
  Advantages  

Like leasing, hire purchase agreements allow companies with inefficient working capital to deploy assets. It can also be more tax-efficient than standard loans because the payments are booked as expenses—though any savings will be offset by any tax benefits from depreciation.



Businesses that require expensive machinery—such as construction, manufacturing, plant hire, printing, road freight, transport, and engineering—may use hire purchase agreements, as could startups that have little collateral to establish lines of credit.



A hire purchase agreement can flatter a company's return on capital employed (ROCE) and return on assets (ROA). This is because the company doesn't need to use as much debt to pay for assets.






Using hire purchase agreements as a type of off-balance-sheet financing is highly discouraged and not in alignment with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) unless the assets and liabilities for leases with terms of 12 months or longer are recognized in the financial statement.


  Disadvantages  

Hire purchase agreements usually prove to be more expensive in the long run than making a full payment on an asset purchase. That's because they can have much higher interest costs. For businesses, they can also mean more administrative complexity.



In addition, hire purchase and installment systems may tempt individuals and companies to buy goods that are beyond their means. They may also end up paying a very high-interest rate, which does not have to be explicitly stated.



Rent-to-own arrangements are also exempt from the Truth in Lending Act because they are seen as rental agreements instead of an extension of credit.



Hire purchase buyers can return the goods, rendering the original agreement void as long as they have made the required minimum payments; however, purchasers suffer a huge loss on returned or repossessed goods, because they lose the amount they have paid towards the purchase up to that point.





Pros

Allows for the purchase of high-value items
Prevents a large outlay of cash
Improves a company's ROA and ROCE



Cons

Overall cost ends up being higher
Ownership does not transfer till all payments are made
If the good is returned, there is a loss from the amount already paid
Increased administrative complexity







What Are the Disadvantages of Hire Purchase?
The disadvantages of hire purchase include the overall higher cost, ownership not being transferred until all payments are made, more complex arrangement and paperwork, causing people to spend beyond their means, and a loss on any returned goods.




What Are the Types of Hire Purchase Agreements?
There are two types of hire purchase agreements: consumer hire purchase agreements, which are for individual consumers purchasing personal products, and industrial hire purchase agreements, which are for businesses, such as a company purchasing machinery.




Who Are the Parties to a Hire Purchase Agreement?
The parties to a hire purchase agreement are the hire purchaser (the buyer) and the hire vendor (the seller). There can also be a financier involved in the agreement.


   The Bottom Line  

Hire purchase agreements are used to pay for very expensive consumer goods so that the buyer doesn't have to outlay a large amount of cash in one go. Though hire purchase agreements do include payment installments plus interest, they are not considered an extension of credit. They can be a manageable way for buyers to purchase expensive goods but the goods end up costing more because of the interest.
What Is a Hiring Freeze?  

A hiring freeze is when an employer stops hiring workers, usually temporarily, in an effort to contain costs. Such cost-cutting may be the result of financial distress, but even large, successful companies may opt to pause hiring amid an economic slowdown, recession or instances of overcapacity.



Hiring freezes may be short-term or long-term, and may help a company avoid laying off employees. Hiring freezes leave unfilled vacancies resulting from firings or natural attrition. In addition, they bar the creation of new positions.





Key Takeaways

A hiring freeze means a business has stopped adding employees for a period of time.Hiring freezes are a cost containment tactic for companies large and small that are suffering financial stress or coping with an economic downturn.Hiring freezes leave vacancies created by layoffs or voluntary departures unfilled.A hiring freeze often increases workloads of employees, who must take on the job responsibilities that would otherwise have been handled by newly hired workers.Some hiring freezes allow managers to assign work to freelancers or to add part-time or temporary help, while barring the hiring of permanent, full-time employees.


   Understanding a Hiring Freeze  

Hiring freezes can happen at struggling companies but also highly successful ones seeking to protect their profit margins. A sudden economic downturn, an industry slowdown or an acceleration in costs may lead management to conclude that a hiring freeze is the best short-term solution.



Hiring freezes allow companies to leave non-essential positions unfilled, in effect hitting a reset button on payroll expense growth. After instituting a hiring freeze management may be able to restructure work groups to improve efficiency. Companies must ensure a hiring freeze doesn't lower their revenue, since that might defeat its purpose of safeguarding earnings.



A hiring freeze may not mean that all hiring is stopped. Companies may still fill positions that are essential to meeting the demands of customers, or specialized jobs otherwise key to their operations. They may also authorize the contracting of freelancers or the hiring of part-time or contract help at a lower cost than that of a permanent full-time worker. A hiring freeze allows a company to limit costs without impairing essential functions like research and development, production, and sales.


   Hiring Freeze Impact  

A hiring freeze can put a strain on the remaining employees, since those who leave the company as a result of retirement, family or medical leave, or for a new job elsewhere are unlikely to be immediately replaced. This often requires workers to add the job responsibilities of departing colleagues on top of their own. As workloads grow, performance is likely to suffer alongside morale. That, in turn, can add to employee turnover, making the hiring freeze unsustainable in the longer run.



A hiring freeze may also encourage managers to ignore poor performance by subordinates instead of firing or confronting them, since those who quit or are fired may not be replaced. In addition, the hiring of temporary or freelance help is likely to reduce the cost savings from a hiring freeze while lowering long-term performance. For these reasons, a hiring freeze is most often a temporary measure intended to limit costs during a slowdown.
What Is a Histogram?  

A histogram is a graphical representation of data points organized into user-specified ranges. Similar in appearance to a bar graph, the histogram condenses a data series into an easily interpreted visual by taking many data points and grouping them into logical ranges or bins.





Key Takeaways

A histogram is a bar graph-like representation of data that buckets a range of classes into columns along the horizontal x-axis.The vertical y-axis represents the number count or percentage of occurrences in the data for each columnColumns can be used to visualize patterns of data distributions.In trading, the MACD histogram is used by technical analysts to indicate changes in momentum.The MACD histogram columns can give earlier buy and sell signals than the accompanying MACD and signal lines.






   How Histograms Work  

Histograms are commonly used in statistics to demonstrate how many of a certain type of variable occur within a specific range.



For example, a census focused on the demography of a town may use a histogram to show how many people are between the ages of zero - 10, 11 - 20, 21 - 30, 31 - 40, 41 - 50, 51 -60, 61 - 70, and 71 - 80.



This histogram example would look similar to the chart below. Let's say the numerals along the vertical access represent thousands of people. To read this histogram example, you can start with the horizontal axis and see that, beginning on the left, there are approximately 500 people in the town who are from less than one year old to 10 years old. There are 4,000 people in town who are 11 to 20 years old. And so on.



Histograms can be customized in several ways by analysts. They can change the interval between buckets. In the example referenced above, there are eight buckets with an interval of ten. This could be changed to four buckets with an interval of 20.



Another way to customize a histogram is to redefine the y-axis. The most basic label used is the frequency of occurrences observed in the data. However, one could also use percentage of total or density instead.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Histograms vs. Bar Charts  

Both histograms and bar charts provide a visual display using columns, and people often use the terms interchangeably. Technically, however, a histogram represents the frequency distribution of variables in a data set. A bar graph typically represents a graphical comparison of discrete or categorical variables.





Create a Histogram

You can create a histogram using Microsoft Excel using the Histogram tool associated with the Statistical icon.


   Histogram Example: The MACD Histogram     

Technical traders may be familiar with a notable histogram example, the moving average convergence divergence (MACD) histogram. It's a popular technical indicator that illustrates the difference between the MACD line and the signal line.



For example, if there is a $5 difference between the two lines, the MACD histogram graphically represents this difference. The MACD histogram is plotted on a chart to make it easy for a trader to determine a specific security’s momentum.



A histogram bar is positive when the MACD line is above the signal line, and negative when the MACD line is below the signal line. An increasing MACD histogram indicates an increase in upward momentum, while a decreasing histogram is used to signal downward momentum.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


   Trading With the MACD Histogram  

A weakness of using just the MACD line and signal line is the lagging nature of the signal given. Specifically, when the MACD line crosses over the signal line, the trading signal lags price. As the two lines are moving averages, by definition they do not cross until a price move has already occurred. This means that traders forego a portion of an initial move.



Traders shouldn't overlook the MACD histogram when using the MACD indicator to make trading decisions. The MACD histogram helps to alleviate the signal lag problem by generating earlier entry signals.



Traders can track the length of the histogram bars as they move away from the zero line. For instance, they may feel that the histogram is generating a trading signal when a histogram bar is shorter in length than the preceding bar. Once the smaller histogram bar completes, traders might open a position in the direction of the histogram’s decline.



Other technical indicators should be used in conjunction with the MACD histogram to increase the signal’s reliability. Moreover, traders should place a stop-loss order to close out the trade if the security’s price does not move as anticipated.




What Is a Histogram in Simple Terms?
A histogram is a graph that shows the frequency of numerical data using rectangles. The height of a rectangle (the vertical axis) represents the distribution frequency of a variable (the amount, or how often that variable appears). The width of the rectangle (horizontal axis) represents the value of the variable (for instance, minutes, years, or ages).




What Is a Histogram vs. a Bar Graph?
The histogram displays the distribution frequency as a two-dimensional figure, meaning the height and width of columns or rectangles have particular meanings and can both vary. A bar chart is a one-dimensional figure. The height of its bars represent something specific. The width of the bars has no meaning. On a histogram, there are no gaps between columns. Column width changes as the variable represented changes. On bar charts, the bars usually have gaps between them.




When Should a Histogram Be Used?
In general, a histogram can be used whenever there's a need to display a comparison of the distribution of certain numerical data in various ranges of intervals. Histogram examples can help an audience see and understand quickly and easily essential meanings and patterns related to a large amount of data. They can be a benefit to a company's or organization's process of decision-making in various departments.
What Is Historic Pricing?  

Historic pricing is a unit pricing method used to calculate the value of an asset using the last valuation point calculated. Historic pricing is used when the value of an asset does not update in real time.





Key Takeaways

Historic pricing is a method for calculating an investment's net asset value (NAV) based on changes from its previous valuation.Investors using historic pricing can accurately compute the total number of shares or units that a certain dollar amount will buy, but runs the risk the last valuation will be stale.Forward pricing of NAV is used more frequently than historic pricing.


   Understanding Historic Pricing  

Historic pricing illustrates the importance of understanding when assets have last had their values calculated, whether at a certain point or at various points during the trading day or in real time. This is known as the valuation point. If an investor happens to trade at the exact point that the net asset value (NAV) is calculated, then they do not have to consider gaps in time as part of their investment strategy.



However, if an investor trades the asset before or after the net asset value has been determined, they will be working off an old (stale) value. This means that there may be the risk that the estimated valuation upon which the trading decision was based is, in fact, inaccurate.



Mutual funds typically update their net asset values at the end of the trading day. Fund managers have two options: they can look at the last calculated net asset value (also known as the historic valuation point), or they can note the net asset value of the next valuation point.



An investor looking to buy a fund based on historic pricing knows how many shares can be purchased for a certain amount of money because the valuation point is known. In turn, sellers know exactly how much money they can get for a specific number of shares. The buyer's risk is that the net asset value of the fund actually decreases by the next valuation point, meaning that they will have spent more on a particular number of shares. The risk for the seller is that the shares increase in value at the next valuation point, meaning that the seller does not make as much money for a given number of shares.


   Forward Pricing vs Historic Pricing  

Forward pricing is the net asset value calculation method used the most. Forward pricing involves processing buy and sell orders for shares of open-ended mutual funds at the net asset value as of the next market close.



Notably, open-ended mutual funds revalue their assets upon the close of the trading day. Buyers are at a disadvantage because they do not know how many fund shares can be purchased. This pricing mechanism ensures that the shares are bought and sold at a price that more accurately reflects the changes in the fund that may have occurred since the previous valuation.
What Is a Historic Structure?  

A historic structure is a sub-category of a historic property as designated by the National Register of Historic Places, referred to as the National Register. In casual conversation, a historic structure refers to a building or other structure, such as a bridge, mine, canal, ship, highway, or locomotive, that is significant because of its link to an important period in the past, but the official designation distinguishes a structure as being distinct from a human shelter.





Key Takeaways

A historic structure is a sub-category of a historic property as designated by the National Register of Historic Places.There are currently more than 2,600 national historic landmarks in the United States.Historic structures can include bridges, mines, canals, ships, and highways but the official designation distinguishes a structure as being distinct from a human shelter.Historic structures can be listed as historic property with the National Park Service but must meet at least one of four key National Register criteria. The intent of these criteria is to ensure that structures that have some kind of cultural and historical relevance are preserved.


   Understanding a Historic Structure  

Historic structures may have unique architectural features or political meaning. Areas with a large number of historic structures may be designated as historic districts. Property owners in historic districts generally face special rules and restrictions on the maintenance of and alterations to the property. Sometimes grant money or tax credits are available to restore historic structures in disrepair.



A historic structure is an official designation by the National Register of Historic Places. The National Register designates historic properties, including buildings, structures, objects, sites, and districts. Historic properties, including historic structures, can be officially registered as historic with the National Park Service and placed on the National Register of Historic Places by petitioning the State Historic Preservation Office where the structure is located.



The petition contains information about the property's historic and current functions, architectural classification and materials, and other details. To be listed, the property must meet at least one of four key National Register criteria.





2,600+

The number of National Historic Landmarks in the United States.


   The Four Criteria of the National Register  

The National Register of Historic Places has established four objectives, specific criteria that can qualify a structure to be designated as historic. From the National Register documentation, structures are historic:



“That are associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of our history; orThat are associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; orThat embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction, or that represent the work of a master, or that possess high artistic values, or that represent a significant and distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction; orThat have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or history.”



A structure only has to fit one of these criteria to be designated as a historic structure by the National Register. The intent of these criteria is to ensure that structures that have some kind of cultural and historical relevance are preserved, but the designation is not to be overused for a building that is simply a certain age but is not otherwise significant.
What Is a Historical Cost?  

A historical cost is a measure of value used in accounting in which the value of an asset on the balance sheet is recorded at its original cost when acquired by the company. The historical cost method is used for fixed assets in the United States under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).





Key Takeaways

Most long-term assets are recorded at their historical cost on a company's balance sheet.Historical cost is one of the basic accounting principles laid out under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).Historical cost is in line with conservative accounting, as it prevents overstating the value of an asset.Highly liquid assets may be recorded at fair market value, and impaired assets may be written down to fair market value. 












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Historical Costs  

The historical cost principle is a basic accounting principle under U.S. GAAP. Under the historical cost principle, most assets are to be recorded on the balance sheet at their historical cost even if they have significantly increased in value over time. Not all assets are held at historical cost. For example, marketable securities are recorded at their fair market value on the balance sheet, and impaired intangible assets are written down from historical cost to their fair market value.



Valuing assets at historical cost prevents overstating an asset's value when asset appreciation may be the result of volatile market conditions. For example, if a company's main headquarters, including the land and building, was purchased for $100,000 in 1925, and its expected market value today is $20 million, the asset is still recorded on the balance sheet at $100,000.


  Asset Depreciation  

Furthermore, in accordance with accounting conservatism, asset depreciation must be recorded to account for wear and tear on long-lived assets. Fixed assets, such as buildings and machinery, will have depreciation recorded on a regular basis over the asset's useful life. On the balance sheet, annual depreciation is accumulated over time and recorded below an asset's historical cost. The subtraction of accumulated depreciation from the historical cost results in a lower net asset value, ensuring no overstatement of an asset's true value.


   Asset Impairment vs. Historical Cost  

Independent of asset depreciation from physical wear and tear over long periods of use, an impairment may occur to certain assets, including intangibles such as goodwill. With asset impairment, an asset's fair market value has dropped below what is originally listed on the balance sheet. An asset impairment charge is a typical restructuring cost as companies reevaluate the value of certain assets and make business changes.



For example, goodwill must be tested and reviewed at least annually for any impairment. If it is worth less than carrying value on the books, the asset is considered impaired. If it has risen in value, no change is made to historical cost. In the case of impairment, the devaluation of an asset based on present market conditions would be a more conservative accounting practice than keeping the historical cost intact. When an asset is written off due to asset impairment, the loss directly reduces a company's profits.


   Mark-to-Market vs. Historical Cost  

The mark-to-market practice is known as fair value accounting, whereby certain assets are recorded at their market value. This means that when the market moves, the value of an asset as reported in the balance sheet may go up or down. The deviation of the mark-to-market accounting from the historical cost principle is actually helpful to report on held-for-sale assets.



An asset's market value can be used to predict future cash flow from potential sales. A common example of mark-to-market assets includes marketable securities held for trading purposes. As the market swings, securities are marked upward or downward to reflect their true value under a given market condition. This allows for a more accurate representation of what the company would receive if the assets were sold immediately, and it is useful for highly liquid assets.




What Is Historical Cost?
Historical cost is the price paid for an asset when it was purchased. Historical cost is a fundamental basis in accounting, as it is often used in the reporting for fixed assets. It is also used to determine the basis of potential gains and losses on the disposal of fixed assets.




What Is the Difference Between Historical Cost and Fair Market Value??
Historical cost is the cash or cash equivalent value of an asset at the time of acquisition. Fair market value is the current value of that asset. Imagine if someone were to have purchased an acre of land 10 years ago for $10,000 and that land is now worth $20,000. The historical cost is $10,000, and the fair market value is $20,000.




How Are Historical Costs Used in Accounting?
GAAP requires that certain assets be accounted for using the historical cost method. Fixed assets are recorded at their cost at the time of purchase. Inventory is also usually recorded at historical cost, though inventory may be recorded at the lower of cost or market.




How Do I Calculate Historical Cost?
Historical cost is often calculated as the cash or cash equivalent cost at the time of purchase. This includes the purchase price and any additional expenses incurred to get the asset in place and prepared for use.




What Is the Conservatism Principle?
The conservatism principle in accounting dictates that estimates, uncertainty, and financial record-keeping should be done in a manner that does not intentionally overstate the financial health of an organization. Historical cost is one way of adhering to the conservatism principle, as companies must report certain assets at cost and have a more difficult time exaggerating the value of the asset.
What Are Historical Returns?  

Historical returns are often associated with the past performance of a security or index, such as the S&P 500. Analysts review historical return data when trying to predict future returns or to estimate how a security might react to a particular situation, such as a drop in consumer spending. Historical returns can also be useful when estimating where future points of data may fall in terms of standard deviations.





Key Takeaways


Historical returns are often associated with the past performance of a security or index, such as the S&P 500.
Investors study historical return data when trying to forecast future returns or to estimate how a security might react in a situation.
Calculating the historical return is done by subtracting the most recent price from the oldest price and divide the result by the oldest price.



   Understanding Historical Returns  

Analyzing historical data can provide insight into how a security or market has reacted to a variety of different variables, from regular economic cycles to sudden, exogenous world events. Investors looking to interpret historical returns should bear in mind that past results do not necessarily predict future returns. The older the historical return data, the less likely it'll be successful at forecasting returns in the future.



A historical return for a stock index such as the S&P 500 is typically measured from the open on January 1st to the market's close on December 31st to provide the annual return. Each year's annual return is compiled to show the historical return over several years. Investors can also calculate the average historical return, i.e., a stock has returned an average of 10% per year for the past five years. However, it's important to note that an average historical return doesn't mean that the stock price didn't correct lower in any of those years. The stock could have experienced price declines, but in the other years when the stock price rose, the gains more than offset the declines so that the average historical return was positive.



Investors can calculate the historical return for any investment, including the value of a home, real estate, mutual funds and exchange traded funds (ETFs), which are funds containing a basket of various securities. Investors also use historical returns to measure the price performance of commodities such as corn, wheat, gold, and silver.


   How to Calculate Historical Returns  

Calculating or measuring the historical return of an asset or investment is relatively straightforward.



Subtract the most recent price from the oldest price in the data set and divide the result by the oldest price. We can move the decimal two places to the right to convert the result into a percentage.



For example, let's say we want to calculate the return of the S&P 500 for 2019. We start with the following data:



3,756= the S&P 500 closing price on December 31, 20204,766 = the S&P 500 closing price on December 31, 20214,766 - 3,756 = 1,0101,010/3,756 = .269 or 27%*



*The returns were rounded to the nearest number.



The process can be repeated if an investor wanted to calculate the return for each month, year, or any period. The individual monthly or yearly returns can be compiled to create a historical return data set. From there, investors and analysts can analyze the numbers to determine if there are any trends or similarities between one period or another.


   Historical Chart Patterns  

In contrast to traditional fundamental analysis, which measures a company's financial performance, technical analysis is a methodology that forecasts the direction of prices through the study of charting patterns. Technical analysis uses past market data, such as price moves, volume, and momentum.



The historical returns are often analyzed for trends or patterns that may align with current financial and economic conditions. Technical analysts believe potential market outcomes may follow past patterns. Hence, there is a hidden value available from the study of historical return trends. However, technical analysis is more often applied to short-term price movements of those assets that frequently fluctuate in price, such as commodities.



Longer-term price trends tend to follow economic conditions and the long-term market outlook for the asset or investment. For example, the long-term historical return of a stock price over several years will likely have more to do with the market outlook for that industry and the company's financial performance than any technical charting pattern.


   Analyzing Historical Returns  

In reality, historical returns analysis often yields mixed results in determining trends. As a dynamic and ever-evolving system, markets and economies at times repeat, but it can be difficult to anticipate when past returns will occur again in the future.


  Similar Events: Recessions  

However, there are some merits to analyzing historical returns since we can gain insight as to what we might be in for in the near future. For example, the recession in 2020 might lead investors to compare the S&P 500 return in 2020 to the last time the U.S. experienced a recession; in 2008 and 2009.



In the context of recessions, exogenous events, economic conditions, and the resulting business and consumer spending patterns affect the stock market differently in each recession. As a result, when comparing historical returns, the drivers of those returns should be considered before concluding that a trend exists. If the underlying catalysts for the historical returns are completely different than the current situation, it's likely that the future returns will not mirror the historical returns analysis.


  Conclusions  

Perhaps the conclusions drawn from the study of historical returns don't provide investors with a crystal ball. Instead, the analysis provides context into the current situation. By knowing how an asset's price behaved under certain circumstances in the past can provide insight as to how it might react in the near future–with the understanding that the return won't be the same.



From there, investors can plan their asset allocation, meaning what types of holdings to invest in, and develop a risk management strategy in case the price of the market or asset moves adversely. In short, historical returns analysis might not predict future price movements, but it can help investors be more informed and better prepared for what the future holds.
What Is Historical Volatility (HV)?  

Historical volatility (HV) is a statistical measure of the dispersion of returns for a given security or market index over a given period of time. Generally, this measure is calculated by determining the average deviation from the average price of a financial instrument in the given time period. Using standard deviation is the most common, but not the only, way to calculate historical volatility. The higher the historical volatility value, the riskier the security. However, that is not necessarily a bad result as risk works both ways—bullish and bearish.


   Understanding Historical Volatility (HV)  

Historical volatility does not specifically measure the likelihood of loss, although it can be used to do so. What it does measure is how far a security's price moves away from its mean value.



For trending markets, historical volatility measures how far traded prices move away from a central average, or moving average, price. This is how a strongly trending but smooth market can have low volatility even though prices change dramatically over time. Its value does not fluctuate dramatically from day to day but changes in value at a steady pace over time.



This measure is frequently compared with implied volatility to determine if options prices are over- or undervalued. Historical volatility is also used in all types of risk valuations. Stocks with a high historical volatility usually require a higher risk tolerance. And high volatility markets also require wider stop-loss levels and possibly higher margin requirements.



Aside from options pricing, HV is often used as an input in other technical studies such as Bollinger Bands. These bands narrow and expand around a central average in response to changes in volatility, as measured by standard deviations.


   Using Historical Volatility  

Volatility has a bad connotation, but many traders and investors can make higher profits when volatility is higher. After all, if a stock or other security does not move it has low volatility, but it also has a low potential to make capital gains. And on the other side of that argument, a stock or other security with a very high volatility level can have tremendous profit potential but at a huge cost. It's loss potential would also be tremendous. Timing of any trades must be perfect, and even a correct market call could end up losing money if the security's wide price swings trigger a stop-loss or margin call.



Therefore, volatility levels should be somewhere in the middle, and that middle varies from market to market and even from stock to stock. Comparisons among peer securities can help determine what level of volatility is "normal."
What Is Hit the Bid?  

"Hit the bid" is a term used when a trader agrees to sell at the bid price, the highest price a buyer is willing to pay for a security or asset. The "bid-ask" spread is the difference between the highest price that a buyer is willing to pay and the lowest price that a seller is willing to accept. An individual looking to sell will hit the bid if they wish to transact immediately at that price.



Hit the bid can be contrasted with "lift the offer."





Key Takeaways

"Hit the bid" means that a trader sells at the prevailing bid price in a market.The bid is the highest price that a buyer is willing to pay for a security.One will hit the bid if they are willing to sell at the best bid price using a market order.


   How Hit the Bid Works  

To hit the bid is to sell a security to another party at its bid price. This price represents the highest price among competing offers for the security.



A trader will hit the bid if they think it is an attractive price, or if they must sell quickly. To hit the bid, the most effective method is to enter a market order to sell, although a sell limit order set at the current bid price is also possible to avoid selling lower than the prevailing bid.



In addition to the price that an investor is willing to buy, the amount or volume bid is also important for understanding the liquidity of a market. Bid sizes are typically displayed along with a level 1 quote. If the quote indicates a bid price of $50 and a bid size of 500, you can sell up to 500 shares at $50. If the best bid is for 100 shares and you have 500 to sell, hitting the bid with a market order will fill the first 100 shares at that price, but the additional 400 shares will be sold at progressively lower prices until the order is filled.






Price quotes will often show the national best bid and offer (NBBO) from across all exchanges that a security is listed. That means that the best bid price may come from a different exchange or location.


   Example of Hitting the Bid  

A portfolio manager has a junk bond to sell. The portfolio manager calls a junk bond broker to solicit bids for the junk bond. The broker calls prospective buyers and immediately creates a bid of $75 for the bond. The broker communicates this bid to the seller. The seller declines. 



Another bid comes in from the market maker for $74, and the seller again declines. Later, the broker goes back to the seller with a $74.50 bid. The seller hits the bid and sells it at the requested price. The other side of hitting the bid is lifting the offer. In this scenario, the trader buying the junk bond from the portfolio manager is lifting the offer from the broker.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is His Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC)?  

HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) is the tax authority of the U.K. government. The agency is responsible for collecting taxes, paying child benefits, regulating tax and customs laws, and enforcing the payment of minimum wage by employers.



HMRC was formed in 2005 following the merger of the Inland Revenue and the Board of Customs and Excise, the agencies which formerly handled internal taxes and customs collection.





Key Takeaways

HMRC is the national taxing authority of the U.K.HMRC administers certain benefits and tax credit payments to U.K. residents.In 2005, HMRC was formed with the merger of Inland Revenue and the Board of Customs and Excise.


   Role of the HMRC  

HMRC collects all direct and indirect taxes in the U.K., including income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax, inheritance tax, value-added tax (VAT), excise duties, stamp duty land tax, air passenger duty, and the climate change levy.






The HMRC is the British equivalent of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the United States.



The HMRC oversees the efficient collection of taxes and the transfer of funds to the Treasury so that revenue for public services is available. The HMRC also educates and informs the public about their tax-paying duties.


   HMRC Divisions  

Government Banking Service: Provides reports to the HM Treasury to ensure an accurate cash management system.
Benefits and Credits: Administers the payment of tax credits, child benefits, statutory sick pay, and maternity pay.
Enforcement and Compliance: Takes action for non-payment of taxes, recovers unpaid student loans, implements systems to reduce tax avoidance (such as DOTAS), and enforces the minimum wage.
Customs: Focuses on the enforcement of customs payments and regulations for international trade to collect revenue and suppress smuggling and illicit trade in tobacco, alcohol, petroleum, and other goods.


   History of HMRC  

Established in 2005 under the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act, the HMRC is a non-ministerial department. The agency reports directly to Parliament through the Treasury, under the leadership of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The HMRC represents the merger of Customs and Excise and the Inland Revenue, combining direct and indirect revenue departments.



The merger was previously overturned in 1862. In 1909, the excise duties were removed from the administration of the Inland Revenue and were combined with the Board of Customs to form the Board of Customs and Excise. Once again, a 1999 report by the Treasury Committee suggested a merger, citing the potential savings in public expenditure and compliance costs.



The decision, announced in March 2004, to merge the Inland Revenue and the Board of Customs and Excise was met with some skepticism as the two departments had such different historical and cultural foundations and legal structures.




Who Oversees the HMRC?
HMRC is a non-ministerial department, and the agency reports directly to Parliament through the Treasury under the leadership of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The Treasury, in turn, supervises spending by HMRC.




When Was the HMRC Established?
The HMRC was established by an act of Parliament in 2005.




Where is the Headquarters of the HMRC?
The HMRC is headquartered in Westminster, London.


   The Bottom Line  

In 2005, the HMRC was formed with the merger of Inland Revenue and the Board of Customs and Excise. His Majesty's Revenue & Customs (HMRC) is the national taxing authority of the United Kingdom that collects all direct and indirect taxes and administers benefits and tax credit payments to residents.
What Is Hoarding?  

Hoarding is the purchase and warehousing of large quantities of a commodity by a speculator with the intent of benefiting from future price increases.



The term hoarding is most frequently applied to buying commodities, especially gold. However, hoarding is sometimes used in other economic contexts. For example, political leaders might complain that speculators are hoarding dollars during a currency crisis.





Key Takeaways

Hoarding is the purchase of large quantities of a commodity by a speculator with the intent of benefiting from future price increases.It is possible for hoarding to create a cycle of speculation, self-fulfilling prophecies, and inflation.Laws are often passed against certain types of hoarding to prevent tragedies and reduce economic instability.In the long run, investing in stocks has outperformed hoarding commodities.


   Understanding Hoarding  

Hoarding is commonly criticized for creating shortages of goods in the real economy. It is possible for hoarding to create a cycle of speculation, self-fulfilling prophecies, and inflation.



If several wealthy individuals start hoarding wheat, the price will begin to increase. Middle-class merchants will notice, and then they might hold back wheat supplies in anticipation of future price increases. That is enough to raise prices again. Panicked buying may create real shortages of wheat in some locations. The poorest in some countries could even be at risk of starvation if the cycle continues beyond that point.



Hoarding is sometimes blamed for shortages that are actually caused by price controls, fixed exchange rates, and other government policies.


   Illegal Hoarding  

Laws are often passed against certain types of hoarding to prevent tragedies and reduce economic instability. If a speculator intends to corner or otherwise monopolize a commodity, then it may be considered an illegal act. Unfortunately for traders and regulators, it is sometimes difficult to distinguish hoarding from unlawful attempts to manipulate the market.



Owning more than $100 worth of gold bullion, coins, or certificates became a criminal act called hoarding in 1933. Holding gold bullion became legal again in the U.S. in 1974.


   Hoarding vs. Investing  

Hoarding is often considered harmful because it prevents commodities from being used in the rest of the economy. Investing can help firms to produce more commodities and other products.



Legendary investor Warren Buffett said of gold: "(It) gets dug out of the ground in Africa or someplace. Then we melt it down, dig another hole, bury it again, and pay people to stand around guarding it. It has no utility. Anyone watching from Mars would be scratching their head."



In the long run, investing in stocks has outperformed hoarding commodities. That said, there were years and decades when commodities had higher returns than stocks.


   Examples of Hoarding in Markets  
  Silver Hoarding  

One of the most famous cases of hoarding occurred in the silver market in the 1970s and 80s when the Hunt brothers tried to hoard silver to corner the market. Nelson Bunker Hunt and William Herbert Hunt correctly predicted rising inflation, but they used excessive leverage and were ill-prepared when prices collapsed.



During the 1970s, the Hunt brothers purchased most of the physical silver inventory available on the market and later moved into futures contracts. Silver was less than two dollars per ounce when they started in the 70s. By early 1980, the brothers managed to drive the price of silver to almost $50 per ounce. At that point, the Hunts were no longer able to borrow the money they needed to keep buying silver and pushing up the price.



The Hunt brothers eventually had to start selling, and the ensuing panic caused the silver price to collapse. In 1988, Nelson Bunker Hunt and William Herbert Hunt declared bankruptcy.


  Copper Hoarding  

Yasuo Hamanaka, a commodities trader at Sumitomo Corporation, became known as Mr. Copper after he attempted to manipulate the copper price through hoarding. He spent seven years in jail after more than ten years of unauthorized copper deals in the 1990s that led to more than $2.6 billion in losses.



At one point, he hoarded as much as 5% of the world's total copper supply. Traders started calling him "Mr. Copper" or the "Copper King."


  HODL'ing  

HODL is a term derived from a misspelling of "hold" that refers to buy-and-hold strategies in the context of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. It describes the hoarding behavior of cryptocurrency holders to accumulate and not sell or use in exchange.



Because digital currencies like bitcoin are scarce and have a limited rate of new unit formation, hoarding strategies increase the relative scarcity and can drive up the price.
What Is a Hobby Loss?  

The term hobby loss refers to a loss that results from a business deemed to be a recreational activity or hobby by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Taxpayers cannot claim and recoup this money when the agency says it is spent while pursuing a hobby. That's because losses aren't allowed for expenses in excess of hobby income.﻿﻿ This means these expenses aren't deductible as they are with a business.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A hobby loss refers to any loss incurred while a taxpayer conducts business that the IRS considers a hobby. The IRS defines a hobby as any activity undertaken for pleasure rather than for profit.Income derived from all sources, including hobbies, must be reported to the IRS. Prior to 2018, taxpayers were able to deduct some losses stemming from the activity if they didn't exceed the gross income for the activity.The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act eliminated all itemized miscellaneous deductions between the 2018 and 2025 tax years. 


   How Hobby Loss Works  

Expenses are an expected part of running a business—you have to spend money to make money. Expenses that are necessary to carry on a trade or business, incurred to produce income, or paid for investments in your company are deductible. When, despite a profit motive, your overall expenses exceed your earnings, the loss can offset unrelated income.﻿﻿



Any income you earn is taxable and must be claimed, even if it doesn't come from your employer. This includes any part-time and temporary work, side gigs, and recreational pursuits that lead you to make a profit.﻿﻿ Expenses related to these activities that result in a loss are generally deductible. That is, of course, unless the IRS considers your activity to be a hobby.﻿﻿



The hobby loss rule of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) attempts to curb perceived loss deduction abuses by hobbyists. The hobby loss rule applies to individuals, S corporations, trusts, estates, and partnerships, but not to C corporations. Deductions are, therefore, limited for activities not engaged in for profit.﻿﻿



According to the IRS, it applies the hobby loss rule to disallow losses of activities it finds likely not to be engaged in for profit. Profit must be demonstrated for three out of five consecutive tax years. Some activities, such as horse racing, have slightly different requirements. Taxpayers engaged in these activities must establish a profit motive to avoid the hobby loss limitations.﻿﻿ Proof of profit motives include receipts and detailed recordkeeping, which is a good idea for every taxpayer in any situation.﻿﻿






The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act eliminated itemized miscellaneous deductions, including hobby losses, until after the 2025 tax year.


   Special Considerations  

The IRS published a tip sheet to help taxpayers distinguish between hobbies and legitimate business operations.﻿﻿ Prior to the 2018 tax year, you were allowed to claim itemized deductions as itemized on Schedule A of Form 1040, assuming you were engaged in a hobby and not a covert or nascent business. The deductions were required to be taken as follows and only to the extent state in the following categories:



Deductions that a taxpayer may claim for certain personal expenses, such as home mortgage interest and taxes, may be taken in full.
Deductions that don’t result in an adjustment to the basis of property, such as advertising, insurance premiums, and wages, may be taken next, to the extent gross income for the activity is more than the deductions from the first category.
Deductions that reduce the basis of property, such as depreciation and amortization, are taken last, but only to the extent that gross income for the activity is more than the deductions taken in the first two categories. ﻿﻿


  Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA)  

In 2017, President Donald Trump signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law. The 200-page law went into effect on Jan. 1, 2018, and made sweeping changes to the tax law, including changes in the tax bracket, mortgage interest deductions, medical expenses, miscellaneous expenses, and itemized deductions.



So how does this affect hobbyists? Once the TCJA was signed, any expenses or hobby losses that a taxpayer was able to claim to reduce their hobby income in previous tax years are no longer allowed. This applies to tax returns filed between the 2018 and 2025 tax years.﻿﻿


   Avoiding a Hobby Loss  

Although the TCJA eliminated miscellaneous itemized deductions, it's still important to know how to avoid the hobby loss rule if provisions aren't made after the 2025 tax year. The easiest way to avoid the hobby loss rules is to frequently turn a profit. The hobby loss rule presumes that an activity is for-profit if the operation is profitable for three out of the previous five years ending with the current taxable year. For actions involving horses, the timeframe is two of the previous seven years.﻿﻿



If the presumption is not met, then the taxpayer must establish a profit motive. The following nine factors define hobby income and losses:



Does the taxpayer have a businesslike manner while carrying on the activity?Is the taxpayer an expert or an adviser?Do they devote the necessary time and effort? Is an appreciable asset created?Are there successes in similar activities?What is the history of activity income or loss?Have there been occasional profits?Is there a stable financial status? Is this activity undertaken for personal pleasure or recreation?﻿﻿ ﻿﻿



A taxpayer that fails to turn a profit or to establish a profit motive is not engaged in a business. The hobby loss rules will apply. Hobby expenses that fail its three-tier deduction system are not deductible.﻿﻿ Hobby expenses that exceed hobby income are disallowed as non-deductible hobby losses.﻿﻿
What Is a Hockey Stick Chart?  

A hockey stick chart is a price line chart in which a sharp increase occurs suddenly after a short period of quiescence or relative stability. The line connecting the data points thus resembles a hockey stick.



Hockey stick charts have been referenced in the world of business, economics, and policy as a visual device to illustrate dramatic shifts or explosive growth, such as with corporate earnings, global temperatures, and poverty statistics.





Key Takeaways

A hockey stick chart is a chart characterized by a sharp increase after a relatively flat and quiet period.It is generally observed in scientific research measuring medical results or environmental studies. In cases of business sales, a hockey stick chart is represented by a sudden and dramatic increase in sales.It is important to analyze whether the sudden increase is a permanent state of affairs or an aberration.


   Understanding Hockey Stick Charts  

A hockey stick is comprised of a blade, a small curve, and a long shaft. A hockey stick chart displays data as low-level activity (y-axis) over a short period of time (x-axis), then a sudden bend indicative of an inflection point, and finally a long and straight rise at a steep angle.



The chart is typically observed in science labs, such as in the field of medicine or environmental studies. Scientists, for example, have plotted global warming data on a chart that follows a hockey stick pattern. Social scientists are also familiar with the chart. Some observations about the rate of increase in poverty have been delineated by this shape.



The hockey stick chart can command immediate attention. A sudden and dramatic shift in the direction of data points from a flat period to what is visible in a hockey stick chart is a clear indicator that more focus should be given to causative factors. If the data shift occurs over a short time period, it is important to determine if the shift is an aberration or if it represents a fundamental change.


   Business Example of a Hockey Stick Chart  

Groupon Inc. has the distinction of being one of the fastest-growing companies in business history to achieve the $1 billion in sales mark. It accomplished this feat in about two-and-a-half years, which is half the time of other tech superstars like Amazon and Google. Put differently, imagine logging sales of less than $100K in 2008 and then seeing $14.5 million in revenues in 2009. This is the "blade" part of the hockey stick chart.



In 2010 the company reported sales of $312.9 million, representing the upward bend or inflection point of the hockey stick. Then in 2011, Groupon generated a whopping $1.6 billion in sales. Plotted visually on a graph with sales on the y-axis and time on the x-axis, the data clearly illustrates a hockey stick pattern. However, as successful as the company may have seemed at the time, the soaring revenues did not mean it was profitable. In fact, net losses in 2010 were $413 million due to selling and marketing expenses.
What Does HODL Mean?  

HODL is a term derived from a misspelling of "hold," in the context of buying and holding Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. It's also commonly come to stand for "hold on for dear life" among crypto investors.



The term originated from a 2013 online post to the Bitcointalk forum where the typo appeared. The price of Bitcoin in 2013 was volatile at the time, surging to over $950 at the beginning of December, 2013, up from just over $130 in April of the same year. The poster encouraged people not to sell and that they were "hodling" [sic].





Key Takeaways

HODL is a crypto slang term meaning to buy-and-hold indefinitely.It implies not selling when markets go down or become volatile.Sometimes it is said to mean "hold on for dear life".HODL originated from a typo of "holding" as "hodling" in a 2013 online post.Today, it is a core tenet of many Bitcoin and crypto believers.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   What Is HODLING?  

At 10:03 a.m. UTC on Dec. 18, Bitcointalk online forum user GameKyuubi posted a purportedly drunk, semi-coherent, typo-laden rant about the user's poor trading skills and determination to simply hold his Bitcoin from that point on:



I AM HODLING



I type d that tyitle twice because I knew it was wrong the first time. Still wrong. w/e," GameKyuubi wrote about the now-famous misspelling of "holding." "WHY AM I HOLDING? I'LL TELL YOU WHY," he continued. "It's because I'm a bad trader and I KNOW I'M A BAD TRADER. Yeah you good traders can spot the highs and the lows pit pat piffy wing wong wang just like that and make a millino bucks sure no problem bro.



GameKyuubi concluded that the best course was to hold, since "You only sell in a bear market if you are a good day trader or an illusioned noob. The people inbetween hold. In a zero-sum game such as this, traders can only take your money if you sell." He then confessed he'd had some whiskey and briefly mused about the spelling of whisk(e)y. 



Within an hour, "HODL" had become a meme. Initially, the memes generated referenced the epic battle movies 300 and Braveheart, but there are now countless HODL memes floating around the internet. Many HODL memes now reference Game of Thrones' Hodor.






The prices of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are notoriously volatile, but HODLers disregard even large price swings. They simply HODL.


   HODLING as a Strategy and Guiding Philosophy  

HODL, as an acronym for "hold on for dear life," has become a mantra among crypto enthusiasts denoting a long-term approach to cryptocurrency investing. This approach mirrors GameKyuubi's rationale in the original post that novice traders are likely to botch their attempts to time the market, and should simply hold their coin.



For cryptocurrency maximalists, HODL represents more than a strategy for reigning in FOMO (Fear of Missing Out), FUD (Fear, Uncertainty, and Doubt), and other profit-eroding emotions. Long-term crypto HODLers stay invested because they believe that cryptocurrencies will eventually replace government-issued fiat currencies as the basis of all economic structures. Should that occur, then the exchange rates between cryptocurrencies and fiat money would become irrelevant to crypto holders.



Predictably, a meme best captures this HODL maximalist philosophy. Neo from The Matrix asks Morpheus, "What are you trying to tell me, that I can trade my Bitcoin for millions someday?" Morpheus responds, "No Neo, I'm trying to tell you that when you're ready … you won't have to."


   When to HODL  

Based on these principles, the best time to HODL is now, always, and forever. A true believer would always hold on to their tokens, even if markets crash or become extremely volatile. HODLing becomes an ideological belief about the long-term prospects of blockchain technology, cryptocurrencies, and the communities that have formed around them.


   Other Crypto Slang Terms  

The crypto community has adopted several acronyms and terms (often with accompanying emojis) in addition to HODLing. Many of these also overlap with terms used in meme stock communities and forums. Some of these include:



FUD (fear, uncertainty, doubt): Misinformation, negative headlines, and dire predictions about crypto, which should be ignored by true adherents.
FOMO (fear of missing out): People jumping onto bandwagon trades or buying into bubbles rather than regretting missing the next big thing
Diamond Hands 💎🤲: Exhibiting extreme fortitude in HODLing, even as markets crash
Hold the line: A battle cry to encourage others to stand firm with diamond hands in the face of volatility.
Paper hands 🧻🤲: This is a derogatory slur leveled against those who fail to maintain diamond hands. These are perceived as weak individuals without conviction who sell their crypto too quickly.
Mooning 🚀🌙: The idea that a stock will rise extraordinarily high, as if to the moon.
Apes 🦍: Members of the crypto or NFT community. Some have attributed this to a meme related to the movie Rise of the Planet of the Apes, but others have suggested that the label comes from the banding together of “dumb apes” to take on the Wall Street elite.
BTFD (buy the f***ing dip): Buying the dips means going long on a stock after its price has declined in the near term and is meant to be repeated after each such drawdown.
YOLO (you only live once): As in, why not buy into a crypto token or NTF?


   Can You HODL Stocks?  

While HODLing is generally associated with cryptocurrency investors, the buy-and-hold investing strategy that it represents is not limited to crypto investing.



Many stock investors "HODL" their investments for long periods of time, although stock prices are almost always less volatile than the prices of crypto assets. Investors in stocks who buy and hold can benefit from long-term price appreciation while experiencing much less price volatility than is associated with cryptocurrencies.


   The HODL Coin  

HODL may also refer to a DeFI token on the Binance Smart Chain (BSC). HODL Coin (SHODL) was launched in May 2021. Much like the term itself, HODL encourages users to hold onto their tokens for rewards in the Binance coin (BNB) that are distributed every three days. The rewards are generated from taxes collected on transactions made by users, such as sale, purchase, or transfer of HODL tokens. The tax amount is converted into BNB tokens and a percentage of the gains is redistributed back to users from the collective liquidity pool.




What Does It Mean to HODL?
"HODL" originated as a misspelling of "HOLD" (written in all caps), in an online post by an early Bitcoin investor. But "HODL", as it has gained popularity among crypto enthusiasts, has come to mean "hold on for dear life". Crypto HODLers, like buy-and-hold stock investors, pride themselves on "holding on" by not selling their cryptocurrency, no matter what happens in the crypto markets.




Who First Said HODL?
The true identity is unknown of the person who inadvertently coined the term "HODL". The original misspelling of the word occurred in a post by the user "GameKyuubi" on the Bitcointalk.org online forum, at 10:03 a.m. UTC on Dec. 18, 2013.




What Is the Difference Between HODL and a Buy-and-Hold Strategy?
There is no difference between HODLing a cryptocurrency and a buy-and-hold strategy. You can HODL a stock through its volatility because you believe in the company's future success. Similarly, you can hold a cryptocurrency for an indefinite length of time, through multiple price changes, because you believe that the coin will do well in the future.




What Is the HODL Coin?
HODL ($HODL) is a cryptocurrency that was named based on the popularity of "HODL" as an expression in the crypto community. The HODL token operates using the Binance Smart Chain, and HODL token owners can earn Binance Coin rewards.


   The Bottom Line  

HODL is an acronym for "Hold On for Dear Life". It is used in the crypto ecosystem to refer to a strategy of holding onto bitcoin holdings through its various price fluctuations and volatility. The acronym is a misspelling of the word "holding" by a user on an online forum. Typically used by Bitcoin maximalists, a HODLing strategy is similar to the conventional buy-and-hold investing strategy. HODL may also refer to the HODL token on cryptocurrency exchange Binance's Smart Chain. Users can earn rewards in Binance coin by depositing their tokens in a liquidity pool.
What Is the Hodrick-Prescott (HP) Filter?  

The Hodrick-Prescott (HP) filter refers to a data-smoothing technique. The HP filter is commonly applied during analysis to remove short-term fluctuations associated with the business cycle. Removal of these short-term fluctuations reveals long-term trends. This can help with economic or other forecasting associated with the business cycle.





Key Takeaways

The Hodrick-Prescott filter refers to a data-smoothing technique used primarily in macroeconomics. It is commonly applied during analysis to remove short-term fluctuations associated with the business cycle.In practice, it is used to smooth and detrend the Conference Board's Help Wanted Index so it can be benchmarked against the Bureau of Labor Statistic's JOLTS, which measures job vacancies in the U.S.


   Understanding the Hodrick-Prescott (HP) Filter  

The Hodrick-Prescott (HP) filter is a tool commonly used in macroeconomics. It is named after economists Robert Hodrick and Edward Prescott who first popularized this filter in economics in the 1990s. Hodrick was an economist who specialized in international finance. Prescott won the Nobel Memorial Prize, sharing it with another economist for their research in macroeconomics.



This filter determines the long-term trend of a time series by discounting the importance of short-term price fluctuations. In practice, the filter is used to smooth and detrend the Conference Board's Help Wanted Index (HWI) so it can be benchmarked against the Bureau of Labor Statistic's (BLS) JOLTS, an economic data series that may more accurately measure job vacancies in the U.S.






The HP filter is a tool commonly used in macroeconomics.


   Special Considerations  

The HP filter is one of the most widely used tools in macroeconomic analysis. It tends to have favorable results if the noise is distributed normally, and when the analysis being conducted is historical.



According to a paper published by economist and professor James Hamilton—which appears on the National Bureau of Economic Research website—there are several reasons why the HP filter should not be used. Hamilton first proposes that the filer produces outcomes that have no basis in the process of generating data. He also states that the values that are filtered at the sample's end are totally different from those in the middle.
What Is Holacracy?  

Holacracy is a system of corporate governance whereby members of a team or business form distinct, autonomous, yet symbiotic, teams to accomplish tasks and company goals. The concept of a corporate hierarchy is discarded in favor of a fluid organizational structure where employees have the ability to make key decisions within their own area of authority.





Key Takeaways

Holacracy is a system a system of self-management where leadership roles are not subject to a traditional hierarchy of command.Instead of having a static job description, individuals in a holacracy assume multiple roles, each associated with a purpose, domain, and accountabilities.Individuals in a holacracy are given broad authority to make decisions within their role, so long as they do not break any prior rule in doing so.Any problems that arise within the organization can be raised in periodic governance meetings.


   How Holacracy Works  

Holacracy seeks to replace the rigidity of a traditional command structure with a system of flexible roles, each with wide authority within their specific area of responsibility. Instead of a traditional pyramid-shaped structure, a holacracy is described as a series of nested circles, each representing autonomous teams with many roles.



Rather than having fixed job responsibilities, individuals functioning in a holacracy may occupy several roles, each with a specific purpose, and one or more "domains" and "accountabilities." Since each individual has multiple roles, it is possible for the CEO of a company to take a leadership role on one team and a subordinate role on another. Any conflicts that arise are resolved in periodic governance meetings within each circle.



Role leads are empowered to make key decisions without having to defer to the management chain of command. This gives rise to what is described as the "golden rule" of holacracy: "To fulfill your role, you have the full authority to make any decision or take any action, as long as there's no rule against it."






Holacracy looks to do away with managing from the top-down and gives individuals and teams more control over processes.


   Origin of Holacracy  

Arthur Koestler, author of the 1967 Book “The Ghost in the Machine,” coined the term holarchy as the organizational connections between holons (from the Greek word for "whole"), which describes units that act independently but would not exist without the organization they operate within.



Brian Robertson then developed the concept and dynamics of Holacracy while running a software development company named Ternary Software in the early 2000s. In 2007, he and Tom Thomison founded HolacracyOne and published the Holacracy Constitution three years later. Companies that have publicly adopted Holacracy in some form include Zappos.com.






Zappos.com, with 1,500 employees, is the largest company to adopt Holacracy.


   Examples of Holacracy  

The largest company to integrate holacracy into its management practices is Zappos.com, an online retailer for clothing, shoes, handbags, and other accessories that has over 1,500 employees. According to Zappos, holacracy "allows every employee to quickly surface and act on customer feedback."



HolacracyOne lists around 185 organizations that have publicly adopted holacracy principles. Besides Zappos, others include Liip, a digital agency in Switzerland; Springest, a Dutch company that produces learning software; and Mercedes-benz.io, the online arm of the auto manufacturer.


   Special Considerations  

Critics have described holacracy as "hype," or the latest in a long series of tech-sector buzzwords. When Zappos integrated holacracy into its management practices, nearly one in five employees elected to receive a severance rather than continue with the company, and many of them cited holacracy as their reason for leaving.



Some tech companies that adopted holacracy later abandoned it. For example, Medium, a blogging site that adopted holacracy in 2013, ended its experiment three years later. In a blog post, the company said that holacracy "was getting in the way of work."



Correction—June 18, 2022. A previous version of this article incorrectly listed Valve as an example of a holacracy-based company.
What is a Hold?  

Hold is an analyst's recommendation to neither buy nor sell a security. A company with a hold recommendation generally is expected to perform with the market or at the same pace as comparable companies. This rating is better than sell but worse than buy, meaning that investors with existing long positions shouldn't sell but investors without a position shouldn't purchase either.


   Understanding Hold Recommendations  

A hold recommendation can be thought of as hold what you have and hold off buying more of that particular stock. A hold is one of the three basic investment recommendation given by financial institutions and professional financial analysts. All stocks either have a buy, sell or hold recommendation. Often, a single stock may have two or more conflicting recommendations given by different financial institutions. In these cases, it's important for investors to look at the advice provided and decide which is more accurate for their specific situations.



If an investor decides that a stock is a hold, she has two potential options. If the investor already owns shares of the stock, she should hold onto the equity and see how it performs over the short-, medium- and long-term. If an investor does not own any shares of the equity, she should wait to purchase until the future prospects become more clear.





Key Takeaways

A hold recommendation means that the analyst making it doesn't see the stock in question outperforming or underperforming comparable stocks in the near term.A hold is sometimes considered damning with faint praise, but stocks that are hold can still perform long-term.A stock can have conflicting recommendations, so investors need to dig into the details before making a decision one way or another. 


   A Hold Versus a Buy-and-Hold Strategy  

A hold is an analyst's call on a stock and distinct from the buy-and-hold strategy, where an equity security is purchased with the understanding that it will be held for the long term. The definition of long-term depends on the specific investor, but most people entering into a buy-and-hold strategy will own a stock for five years or more. This type of strategy forces investors to stick with investments through market retractions and recessions so they don't sell during a dip; instead, they ride out volatility and sell at a peak.


   Benefits of Holding a Stock  

When an investor holds onto a stock, she is effectively initiating a long position in an equity. Investors who hold a stock for a long period of time can benefit from quarterly dividends and potential price appreciation over time. Even if a stock is given a hold recommendation and remains flat, if it pays a dividend, the investor can still profit. A hold position is not a bad one, and even stocks that are labelled as a hold can appreciate in price over time. They are just not seen as likely to outperform other comparable stocks.


   Risks of Holding  

However, there are also risks of holding a stock. All long positions are susceptible to market volatility and potential price declines. Sometimes investors predict a microeconomic or macroeconomic downturn but hold onto a stock because it was recommended by a leading financial institution. If the price of the stock subsequently declines with the market, the investor loses money. That said, the paper losses in a broad market dip only matter if the investor needs the money in the near term. If, however, the fundamentals of a stock have degraded, then the investor must reassess whether to continue to hold or not.
What Is a Hold Harmless Agreement?  

A hold harmless agreement is a clause in a legal contract absolving one party of legal liability for any injuries or damages suffered by another party. It ensures that one party cannot hold the other party legally responsible for any risks incurred from services provided.



A business may add a hold harmless agreement to a contract when the service being retained involves risks that the business does not want to be held responsible for legally or financially.



A hold harmless agreement is also known as a hold harmless clause or hold harmless provision. Alternatively, it is sometimes called an indemnity agreement.





Key Takeaways

A hold harmless agreement is used to protect a party in a contract from liability for damages or losses.In signing such an agreement, the other party accepts responsibility for certain risks involved in contracting for the service.Hold harmless agreements are more common in business transactions involving dangerous sports, real estate, construction, and other areas where there's a higher risk of loss.A hold harmless agreement does not always protect against lawsuit or liability.These agreements can be disregarded if they are nebulous in language, overly broad in scope, or believed to be fraudulent.


   How a Hold Harmless Agreement Works  

Businesses that offer high-risk activities, such as skydiving sessions, commonly use a hold harmless clause. Although it is not an absolute protection from liability, it indicates that the customer has acknowledged certain risks and agreed to take them. This agreement may be in the form of a letter.



The hold harmless agreement may be unilateral or reciprocal. With a unilateral agreement, one party to the contract agrees not to hold the other party liable for injuries or damages incurred. With a reciprocal agreement, both parties to the contract agree to hold the other harmless.






The hold harmless agreement is not absolute protection against lawsuit or liability.


   Examples of Hold Harmless Agreements  

The hold harmless agreement is common in many less-obvious situations than a contract for skydiving lessons.



An apartment lease may have a hold harmless clause stating that the landlord is not responsible for any damage caused by the tenant. A homeowner hiring a roofer might request a hold harmless agreement to protect against a lawsuit if the roofer falls off the roof. A sports club may include a hold harmless agreement in its contract to prevent its members from suing if they are injured in the course of participating in tennis matches. In this example, there might be a clause requiring the participant to accept all risks associated with the activity, including the risk of death.



Contractors often add hold harmless agreements to their contracts to protect their businesses against potential liability arising from their work. For example, a contractor hired to add a deck to a private home may add a clause to preempt a lawsuit if an injury occurs on the deck at a later date. The homeowner, in turn, may use a hold harmless agreement to prevent a lawsuit if the contractor suffers an injury during the course of the work.



The first situation described above represents a unilateral hold harmless agreement. The contractor is the only one demanding to be held harmless. The second example represents a reciprocal agreement. The homeowner is also requesting indemnity from the contractor.


   Limitations of a Hold Harmless Agreement  

A hold harmless agreement does not always protect against lawsuit or liability. For example, hold harmless agreements that are nebulous in language or overly broad in scope might be disregarded. Moreover, the clause may be deemed null and void if signers present a strong case that they were coerced or beguiled into signing a hold harmless clause.



It's also worth bearing in mind that some states are less hold-harmless–agreement friendly than others. In some jurisdictions, there are anti-indemnity regulations limiting or even prohibiting the use of hold harmless clauses within certain professions or under some circumstances, such as residential tenancies.




What Is the Meaning of Hold Harmless?
Hold harmless essentially means just that: Don’t hold me responsible. It appears as an agreement in a contract and when signed should result in the party requesting it being freed from liability for damages or losses.




How Binding Is a Hold Harmless Agreement?
If the state where it is to be used recognizes these types of clauses and accepts them being used in that particular context, then they should be binding. That's not a guarantee, though. If the agreement is vague and difficult to understand, overly broad, or if it can be proved that it wasn’t signed with free will, it will likely be disregarded.




What Is Another Name for a Hold Harmless Agreement?
Hold harmless agreements go by many names. They may also be called hold harmless clauses, hold harmless provisions, or indemnity agreements.


   The Bottom Line  

Hold harmless agreements function as a type of insurance, preventing businesses or regular people from being held legally responsible for specified losses or damages for which they might otherwise be considered liable. They appear in legal contracts as a clause and must be understood before being signed.



Having such an agreement in place can be worth the legal expenses it costs to put in motion for businesses deemed to be more at risk of getting sued, such as contractors, providers of sports facilities, and landlords. However, these agreements are not always bulletproof. To be enforceable, these agreements need to be clear, put together with care, and recognized by the state where the activities take place.
What Is a Holdco?  

Holdco is an abbreviation for "holding company," which is a firm that exercises control over one or more additional firm(s). The holdco accomplishes this through the acquisition of stock that is sufficient to control or influence the voting by shareholders. The holding company earns money by collecting the dividends from the shares of firms in which it owns a controlling interest.





Key Takeaways

Holdco is an abbreviation for "holding company," which is a firm that exercises control over other investments, such as stocks, bonds, other firms, and anything that has value.A holdco earns money by collecting the dividends from the shares of firms in which it owns a controlling interest.A holdco can be both less expensive and more legally complicated than a merger or consolidation.


   Understanding a Holdco  

Holdcos are businesses that own other entities of value, which is usually accomplished through the acquisition of stock that is sufficient to control, or influence, voting by shareholders. A holdco earns money by collecting the dividends from the shares of firms in which it owns a controlling interest.



The establishment of a holding company can be both less expensive and legally complicated than a merger or consolidation, making it an attractive means of gaining control of another company. A holdco is also known as a parent company. The key purpose of a holdco is to "hold" (i.e., own) assets. The holdco itself can be held by a single person or company or a group of individuals or companies. The main purpose of holdcos is to limit liability.


   Example of Holdcos  

Holdcos can be used for a variety of things, but they are more common in the real estate industry. For example, an investor looking to limit personal liability against legal action might use a holdco to own the real estate and then an operating company for the operations. The operating company would lease the property, land, or assets from the holdco. Thus, even if something happened with the operating company and it was sued, the assets would be relatively insulated via the holdco.



Beyond real estate, other companies in the U.S. use holdcos for one reason or another. Banks, for example, use holdcos, such as JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and Citigroup (C), both of which are holdcos. Utilities previously utilized holdcos, although it's rarely seen today.


   Special Considerations  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) says that a company is a personal holding company if it meets both the Income Test and the Stock Ownership Test. The Income Test requires that at least 60% of the corporation's adjusted ordinary gross income for the tax year is from rent, royalties, dividends, interest, and annuities. The Stock Ownership Test requires that at any time during the last six months of the tax year five or fewer individuals must directly or indirectly own more than 50% of the value of the corporation's outstanding stock.
What Is Holder of Record?  

A holder of record is the name of the person who is the registered owner of a security and who has the rights, benefits, and responsibilities of ownership.





Key Takeaways

A holder of record is the person who is the registered owner of a security and who has the rights, benefits, and responsibilities of ownership. For a stock, the holder of record typically has shareholder voting rights and receives dividend payouts, if there are any. For a bond, the holder of record owns the bond and receives the principal and interest payments.Holders of record may be recorded in a register of shareholders or similar type of ledger.


   Understanding Holder of Record  

The holder of record for a stock typically has shareholder voting rights and receives dividend payouts, if there are any. The holder of record for a bond owns the bond and receives the principal and interest payments. When the owner sells the security, they cease to be the holder of record. Holder of record may also correspond to the legitimate owner of other securities, such as commodities and derivative contracts.



Securities can be issued in either "registered" or "bearer" form. Registered form means the issuing firm itself keeps records of a security's owner and mails out payments to them. Bearer form means the security is traded without any record of ownership; physical possession of the security is the sole evidence of ownership. Bearer form securities have largely been phased out due to their potential for misuse. Presently, securities are mostly issued in registered form.



A registered holder is also distinct from a beneficial owner or holder, whose holdings are held in a brokerage account or by a bank or nominee in street name. But as shareholders of a company, registered holders and beneficial owners will have the same rights with regard to voting, receiving dividends and communications, etc., the only difference being the manner in which voting rights are exercised and dividends or communications received. Although holding securities in street name is the norm, some investors still prefer to hold physical certificates in their own name. Because it is more expensive to transfer ownership this way, brokers will charge a higher rate for the inconvenience.






The shareholder register is fundamental to the examination of the ownership of a company.


   Register of Shareholders  

Holders of record may involve a shareholder register, a list of active owners of a company's shares, updated on an ongoing basis. The shareholder register requires that every current shareholder be recorded and includes each person's name, address, and number of shares held. In addition. The register can even detail the holder's occupation and the price paid.



The shareholder register differs from a shareholder list in that the shareholder list is updated only once per year, whereas the register keeps track of the current partial owners of a company.
What Is a Holding Company?  

A holding company is a business entity—usually a corporation or limited liability company (LLC). Typically, a holding company doesn’t manufacture anything, sell any products or services, or conduct any other business operations. Rather, holding companies hold the controlling stock in other companies.



Although a holding company owns the assets of other companies, it often maintains only oversight capacities. So while it may oversee the company's management decisions, it does not actively participate in running a business's day-to-day operations of these subsidiaries.



A holding company is also sometimes called an "umbrella" or parent company.





Key Takeaways

A holding company is a type of financial organization that owns a controlling interest in other companies, which are called subsidiaries.The parent corporation can control the subsidiary's policies and oversee management decisions but doesn't run day-to-day operations.Holding companies are protected from losses accrued by subsidiaries—so if a subsidiary goes bankrupt, its creditors can't go after the holding company.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Holding Companies  

A holding company typically exists for the sole purpose of controlling other companies. Holding companies may also own property, such as real estate, patents, trademarks, stocks, and other assets.



This structure serves to limit the financial and legal liability exposure of the holding company (and of its various subsidiaries). It may also depress a corporation's overall tax liability by strategically basing certain parts of its business in jurisdictions that have lower tax rates.



Businesses that are completely owned by a holding company are referred to as "wholly-owned subsidiaries." Although a holding company can hire and fire managers of the companies it owns, those managers are ultimately responsible for their own operations.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Holding Company  
  Advantages  

Holding companies enjoy the benefit of protection from losses. If a subsidiary company goes bankrupt, the holding company may experience a capital loss and a decline in net worth. However, the bankrupt company’s creditors cannot legally pursue the holding company for remuneration.



Consequently, as an asset protection strategy, a parent corporation might structure itself as a holding company, while creating subsidiaries for each of its business lines. For example, one subsidiary may own the parent corporation's brand name and trademarks, while another subsidiary may own its real estate.



Holding companies are also relatively easy to create or change. This makes it easy to take advantage of geographical differences in taxation regimes: If a certain jurisdiction has high business taxes, the holding company can simply relocate to a more business-friendly environment while continuing operations in the original location.






If a holding company is set up correctly, the debt liability of one subsidiary won't impact any others; if one subsidiary were to declare bankruptcy, it would not impact the others.



Holding companies support their subsidiaries by using their resources to lower the cost of operating capital. Using a downstream guarantee, the parent company can make a pledge on a loan on behalf of the subsidiary.


  Disadvantages  

There are some disadvantages to owning subsidiaries through a holding company. For investors and creditors, it may be difficult to find an accurate picture of the overall financial health of the holding company. It is also possible for unethical directors to hide their losses by moving debt among their subsidiaries.



Holding companies can also exploit their subsidiaries, by forcing them to appoint chosen directors or forcing the subsidiaries to buy products from one another at higher-than-market prices. They may also force subsidiaries to sell products to one another at below-market prices.



In some cases, holding companies can even force their subsidiaries to lay off a large section of the workforce or plunder their acquisitions for saleable assets. Known as vulture capitalism, these strategies can have the effect of inflating the holding company's overall numbers at the expense of the subsidiary.





Pros

Holding companies protect the parent company from losses by subsidiaries.
Holding companies can provide cheaper operating capital to their subsidiaries.
Parent companies can take advantage of regional taxation laws by moving the holding company and subsidiaries to different jurisdictions.



Cons

Holding companies can come with reduced transparency, making it harder for investors and creditors to assess the health of the enterprise.
Parent companies can abuse their subsidiaries by forcing them to trade with one another at non-market prices.
Parent companies can also force their subsidiaries to appoint chosen directors or change their policies.





   Types of Holding Companies  

Holding companies fall into different categories, depending on their business operations. Some only exist to hold a single subsidiary, while others may be engaged in other business operations. The different types of holding companies are explained below:



Pure Holding Companies: A pure holding company is one that only exists as a vehicle for ownership of other firms. These companies do not participate in any other type of business.Mixed Holding Company: A mixed holding company is one that has its own business operations, in addition to managing its subsidiaries. Another word for this is a holding-operating company.Immediate: An immediate holding company is a company that owns other companies, but is itself owned by another entity. In short, these are holding companies that are owned by another holding company. Intermediate: Similar to an immediate holding company, these are holding companies that are also subsidiaries of a larger corporation.


   How Holding Companies Make Money  

Large holding companies may have several income streams, depending on the companies in their portfolio. The most straightforward way to make money is through equity in their subsidiaries: Holding companies can benefit from dividends in the subsidiary's share price, as well as by selling equity in companies that gain value.



In addition, holding companies can also profit from synergies between their subsidiaries. Rather than have separate IT, human resources, or administration teams for each company, a holding company can centralize these services and then sell them to the subsidiaries. Holding companies can also centralize equipment or other assets for lease by all of their companies.


   Example of a Holding Company  

An example of a well-known holding company is Berkshire Hathaway, which owns assets in more than one hundred public and private companies, including Dairy Queen, Clayton Homes, Duracell, GEICO, Fruit of the Loom, RC Wiley Home Furnishings and Marmon Group.



Berkshire likewise boasts minor holdings in The Coca-Cola Company, Goldman Sachs, IBM, American Express, Apple, Delta Airlines, and Kinder Morgan.




What Is the Purpose of a Holding Company?
A holding company is a financial vehicle for owning and controlling other assets, such as real estate, stocks, or companies. Using a holding company creates legal separation between the assets and the owners, and reduces the liability for the owners if one of the holdings encounters financial trouble.




How Do You Create a Holding Company?
To create a holding company, you simply need to file the articles of incorporation in the state or jurisdiction where you want to register the company. You will also need to identify the business agents managing the holding and operating companies. This can be complicated, so for companies with larger holdings it is worth engaging a lawyer.




What Is a Personal Holding Company?
A personal holding company is a company where 50% of the ownership stake is controlled by five or fewer individuals, and at least 60% of the company's income comes from passive sources.


   The Bottom Line  

A holding company is a type of business entity that has a single purpose—owning other companies. Some holding companies are large conglomerates, with arms in many different industries; others only exist to manage a single subsidiary. Holding companies can help protect their owners from losses, or they can also be used to reduce tax burdens.
What Was a Holding Company Depository Receipt (HOLDR)?  

A holding company depository receipt (HOLDR) was a security that allowed investors to buy and sell a basket of stocks in a single transaction. Like exchange-traded funds (ETFs), HOLDRs allowed investors to trade stocks in a specific industry, sector, or group. ETFs, however, provide a more efficient and flexible structure for investors and issuers.



As a result, HOLDR securities were discontinued and some converted into ETFs by the end of the year 2011.





Key Takeaways

A holding company depository receipt (HOLDR) was a diversified investment product offered by Merrill Lynch that gave investors access to several stocks in a certain industry or sector via a single holding.Unlike an ETF, each HOLDR represented individual ownership in the stocks underlying the HOLDR, with the value of the HOLDR fluctuating along with the changes in the value of the underlying stocks.HOLDRs no longer trade and the last of them were either liquidated or effectively converted into ETFs in 2011.


   Understanding Holding Company Depository Receipts (HOLDRs)  

A holding company depository receipt (HOLDR) referred to a fixed collection of publicly-traded stocks packaged together as one security. HOLDRs were created by Merrill Lynch and traded only on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). HOLDRs enabled an investor to gain exposure to a market sector at a relatively low cost and diversify within that sector. To gain the same level of diversification manually, the investor would have needed to purchase each company individually, thus increasing the amount paid in commissions.



HOLDRs covered a wide range of sectors and industries such as biotech, pharmaceutical, and retail, but Merrill Lynch determined the composition of each HOLDR, and HOLDRs can vary widely from each other. A key difference between HOLDRs and ETFs was that investors in HOLDRs had direct ownership in the underlying stocks, which is not the case for ETFs, and as a result investors in HOLDRs had voting and dividend rights.


   ETFs and the Demise of HOLDRs  

HOLDRs are often lumped in with exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and while both products share low-cost, low-turnover, and tax-efficient characteristics, they are different investment vehicles. ETFs are often preferable to investors and meet the same purpose as HOLDRs.



ETFs invest in indexes that contain many components and regularly change. In contrast, a HOLDR was a static group of stocks selected from a particular industry and their components rarely change. ETFs also track some form of an underlying index, whereas HOLDRs did not. ETF holdings are moreover managed and periodically adjusted to provide the best return possible within that index. If a company was acquired and removed from a HOLDR, its stock was not replaced, which could result in more concentration and added risk.



HOLDRs were typically bought in round lots of 100, and could be quite capital-intensive for smaller investors, thus excluding some from participating in them. HOLDRs, however, helped give rise to the popularity of ETFs, whose dominance eventually consumed some HOLDRs and caused others to be shut down and liquidated. In December of 2011, six of the 17 remaining HOLDRs were converted into ETF structures and the remaining 11 were liquidated.
What Are Holding Costs?  

Holding costs are those associated with storing inventory that remains unsold. These costs are one component of total inventory costs, along with ordering and shortage costs.



A firm’s holding costs include the price of goods damaged or spoiled, as well as that of storage space, labor, and insurance.





Key Takeaways

Holding costs are costs associated with storing unsold inventory. A firm’s holding costs include storage space, labor, and insurance, as well as the price of damaged or spoiled goods.Minimizing inventory costs is an important supply-chain management strategy.Strategies to avoid holding costs include quick payment collection and calculating accurate reorder points.


   Understanding Holding Costs  

Minimizing inventory costs is an important supply-chain management strategy. Inventory is an asset account that requires a large amount of cash outlay, and decisions about inventory spending can reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes.



For example, increasing the inventory balance by $10,000 means that less cash is available to operate the business each month. This situation is considered an opportunity cost.


   Holding Costs Example  

Assume that ABC Manufacturing produces furniture that is stored in a warehouse and then shipped to retailers. ABC must either lease or purchase warehouse space and pay for utilities, insurance, and security for the location.



The company must also pay staff to move inventory into the warehouse and then load the sold merchandise onto trucks for shipping. The firm incurs some risk that the furniture may be damaged as it is moved into and out of the warehouse.


   Holding Cost Reduction Methods  

One way to ensure a company has sufficient cash to run its operations is to sell inventory and collect payments quickly. The sooner cash is collected from customers, and the less total cash the firm must come up with to continue operations. Businesses measure the frequency of cash collections using the inventory turnover ratio, which is calculated as the cost of goods sold (COGS) divided by average inventory.



For example, a company with $1 million in cost of goods sold and an inventory balance of $200,000 has a turnover ratio of five. The goal is to increase sales and reduce the required amount of inventory so that the turnover ratio increases.



Another important strategy to minimize holding costs and other inventory spending is to calculate a reorder point, or the level of inventory that alerts the company to order more inventory from a supplier. An accurate reorder point allows the firm to fill customer orders without overspending on storing inventory. Companies that use a reorder point avoid shortage costs, which is the risk of losing a customer order due to low inventory levels.



The reorder point considers how long it takes to receive an order from a supplier, as well as the weekly or monthly level of product sales. A reorder point also helps the business compute the economic order quantity (EOQ), or the ideal amount of inventory that should be ordered from a supplier. EOQ can be calculated using inventory software.
What Is a Holding Period?  

A holding period is the amount of time the investment is held by an investor, or the period between the purchase and sale of a security. In a long position, the holding period refers to the time between an asset's purchase and its sale. In a short options position, the holding period is the time between when a short seller buys back the securities and when the security is delivered to the lender to close the short position.


   The Basics of a Holding Period  

The holding period of an investment is used to determine the taxing of capital gains or losses. A long-term holding period is one year or more with no expiration. Any investments that have a holding of less than one year will be short-term holds. The payment of dividends into an account will also have a holding period.



Holding period return is thus the total return received from holding an asset or portfolio of assets over a specified period of time, generally expressed as a percentage. Holding period return is calculated on the basis of total returns from the asset or portfolio (income plus changes in value). It is particularly useful for comparing returns between investments held for different periods of time.





Key Takeaways

A holding period is the amount of time the investment is held by an investor, or the period between the purchase and sale of a security.Holding period is calculated starting on the day after the security's acquisition and continuing until the day of its disposal or sale, the holding period determines tax implications. Holding period return is the total return received from holding an asset or portfolio of assets over a specified period of time, generally expressed as a percentage.Holding period differences can result in differential tax treatment on an investment.


   Calculating a Holding Period  

Starting on the day after the security's acquisition and continuing until the day of its disposal or sale, the holding period determines tax implications. For example, Sarah bought 100 shares of stock on Jan. 2, 2016. When determining her holding period, she begins counting on Jan. 3, 2016. The third day of each month after that counts as the start of a new month, regardless of how many days each month contains.



If Sarah sold her stock on December 23, 2016, she would realize a short-term capital gain or capital loss because her holding period is less than one year. If she sells her stock on Jan. 3, 2017, she would realize a long-term capital gain or loss because her holding period is more than one year.



Holding period return can therefore be represented by the following formula:



﻿















Holding Period Return


=




Income


+


(


EOPV


−


IV


)




IV


















where:
















EOPV


=


end of period value
















IV


=


initial value








\begin{aligned} &\text{Holding Period Return} = \frac { \text{Income} + ( \text{EOPV} - \text{IV} ) }{ \text{IV} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{EOPV} = \text{end of period value} \\ &\text{IV} = \text{initial value} \\ \end{aligned}


​Holding Period Return=IVIncome+(EOPV−IV)​where:EOPV=end of period valueIV=initial value​﻿


   Different Rules Defining Holding Periods  

When receiving a gift of appreciated stock or other security, the determination of the recipient’s cost basis is by using the donor’s basis. Also, the recipient’s holding period includes the length of the donor’s holding period. This continuation of holding is called “tacking on” because the recipient’s holding period adds value to the donor’s holding period. In cases where the recipient’s basis is determined by the fair market value of the security, such as a gift of stock that decreased in value, the recipient’s holding period starts on the day after receiving the gift.





1 year

The holding period after which the IRS considers an investment a long-term gain (or loss) for tax purposes. Long-term capital gains are taxed at a more favorable rate than short-term gains.



When an investor receives a stock dividend, the holding period for the new shares, or portions of a new share, is the same as for the old shares. Meeting the minimum holding period is the primary requirement for dividends to be designated as qualified. For common stock, the holding must exceed 60 days throughout the 120-day period, which begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date. Preferred stock must have a holding period of at least 90 days during the 180-day period that begins 90 days before the stock's ex-dividend date.



Holding also applies when receiving new stock in a company spun off from the original company in which the investor purchased stock. For example, Paul purchased 100 shares of stock in April 2015. In June 2016, the company declared a two-for-one stock split. Paul then had 200 shares of company stock with the same holding period, starting with the date of purchase in April 2015.
What Is the Holding Period Return/Yield?  

Holding period return is the total return received from holding an asset or portfolio of assets over a period of time, known as the holding period. It is generally expressed as a percentage and is particularly useful for comparing returns on investments purchased at different periods in time.





Key Takeaways

Holding period return (or yield) is the total return earned on an investment during the time that it has been held.A holding period is the amount of time the investment is held by an investor, or the period between the purchase and sale of a security.Holding period return is useful for making like comparisons between returns on investments purchased at different periods in time.


   Understanding Holding Period Return  

Holding period return is calculated on the basis of total returns from the asset or portfolio (income plus changes in value). It is particularly useful for comparing returns between investments held for different periods of time.



Starting on the day after the security's acquisition and continuing until the day of its disposal or sale, the holding period determines tax implications. For example, Sarah bought 100 shares of stock on Jan. 2, 2023. When determining her holding period, she begins counting on Jan. 3, 2023. The third day of each month after that counts as the start of a new month, regardless of how many days each month contains.



If Sarah sold her stock on Dec. 23, 2023, she would realize a short-term capital gain or capital loss because her holding period is less than one year. If she sells her stock on Jan. 3, 2024, she would realize a long-term capital gain or loss because her holding period is more than one year.


   Calculating Holding Period Return  

Holding Period Return (HPR) and annualized HPR for returns over multiple years can be calculated as follows:
















Holding


 


Period


 


Return


















=





Income


 



+


(



End


 


Of


 


Period


 


Value


 



−



 


Initial


 


Value



)




Initial


 


Value









\begin{aligned}&\textit{Holding Period Return}\\&\qquad=\frac{\textit{Income }+(\textit{End Of Period Value }-\textit{ Initial Value})}{\textit{Initial Value}} \end{aligned}


​Holding Period Return=Initial ValueIncome +(End Of Period Value − Initial Value)​​
Returns computed for regular time periods such as quarters or years can be converted to a holding period return as well.


   Example of Holding Period Return/Yield  

The following are some examples of calculating holding period return:
1. What is the HPR for an investor who bought a stock a year ago at $50 and received $5 in dividends over the year if the stock is now trading at $60?









H


P


R


=




5


+


(


60


−


50


)



50



=


30


%







\begin{aligned}HPR=\frac{5+(60-50)}{50}=30\%\end{aligned}


HPR=505+(60−50)​=30%​
2. Which investment performed better: Mutual Fund X, which was held for three years and appreciated from $100 to $150, providing $5 in distributions, or Mutual Fund B, which went from $200 to $320 and generated $10 in distributions over four years?
















HPR


 


for


 


Fund


 


X



=




5


+


(


150


−


100


)



100



=


55


%

















HPR


 


for


 


Fund


 


B



=




10


+


(


320


−


200


)



200



=


65


%







\begin{aligned}&\textit{HPR for Fund X}=\frac{5+(150-100)}{100}=55\%\\[+.010pt]&\textit{HPR for Fund B}=\frac{10+(320-200)}{200}=65\%\end{aligned}


​HPR for Fund X=1005+(150−100)​=55%HPR for Fund B=20010+(320−200)​=65%​
Note: Fund B had the higher HPR, but it was held for four years, as opposed to the three years for which Fund X was held. Since the time periods are different, this requires annualized HPR to be calculated, as shown below.
3. Calculation of annualized HPR:
















Annualized


 


HPR


 


for


 


Fund


 


X


















=


(


0.55


+


1



)



1


/


3




−


1


=


15.73


%

















Annualized


 


HPR


 


for


 


Fund


 


B


















=


(


0.65


+


1



)



1


/


4




−


1


=


13.34


%







\begin{aligned}&\textit{Annualized HPR for Fund X}\\&\qquad=(0.55+1)^{1/3}-1=15.73\%\\&\textit{Annualized HPR for Fund B}\\&\qquad=(0.65+1)^{1/4}-1=13.34\%\end{aligned}


​Annualized HPR for Fund X=(0.55+1)1/3−1=15.73%Annualized HPR for Fund B=(0.65+1)1/4−1=13.34%​
Thus, despite having the lower HPR, Fund X was the superior investment.
4. Your stock portfolio had the following returns in the four quarters of a given year: +8%, -5%, +6%, +4%. How did it compare against the benchmark index, which had total returns of 12% over the year?
















HPR


 


for


 


your


 


stock


 


portfolio


















=


[


(


1


+


0.08


)


×


(


1


−


0.05


)


×


(


1


+


0.06


)


×


(


1


+


0.04


)


]


















−


1


=


13.1


%







\begin{aligned}&\textit{HPR for your stock portfolio}\\&\qquad=[(1+0.08)\times(1-0.05)\times(1+0.06)\times(1+0.04)]\\&\qquad\quad-1=13.1\%\end{aligned}


​HPR for your stock portfolio=[(1+0.08)×(1−0.05)×(1+0.06)×(1+0.04)]−1=13.1%​
Your portfolio, therefore, outperformed the index by more than a percentage point. (However, the risk of the portfolio should also be compared to that of the index to evaluate if the added return was generated by taking significantly higher risk.)




Is Holding Period Return the Same as Rate of Return?
Pretty much, yes. The rate of return tells us, in percentage terms, how much an investment made or lost. The holding period return does the same thing, telling us the return on an investment during the timeframe it was held.




Why Do We Need Holding Period Return?
Holding period return is important for several reasons. It considers not only appreciation but also income payments and is a great way to compare the performance of investments held over different timeframes.




What Does Holding Period Mean?
Holding period means the time a security was held for. It begins when the investment is purchased and ends when it is sold.




Can Holding Period Return Be Negative?
Yes. Not all investments generate a profit. Even a stock that pays a dividend could deliver a negative holding period return if it depreciated in value.


   The Bottom Line  

A holding period return is the total return you received from holding an asset or collection of assets. You essentially subtract the price you initially paid from the price you sold the security, add any income paid, and then divide the sum by the initial value. The holding period of return is usually expressed as a percentage, meaning you then multiply the total by 100.



Knowing the holding period return makes it easier to compare returns between investments. That’s especially the case for investments held for different periods of time.
What Is Holding the Market?  

"Holding the market" is the deliberate practice of placing active or pending orders for a security in a market where the price is dropping in an attempt to "hold" the price of the security steady or to create an artificial floor in the security. This practice is outlawed in most instances, except when a broker or other party is mandated to keep the price of a security steady; this is only done in rare cases where there isn't enough market depth to hold the price.



Holding the market may also refer to the practice of owning a broad market index such as the S&P 500 or Wilshire 5000 Total Market.





Key Takeaways

"Holding the market" refers to an illegal trading practice that attempts to prop up the price of a security after negative news has been released that would otherwise cause a drop in its price.In certain instances, where regulation calls for market makers or specialists to add liquidity to markets with little depth, this practice may be allowed.Holding the market is hard to pull off these days because any one person would have to have very deep pockets to make a significant impact on a security's price.The practice of owning and holding a broad market index is also referred to as holding the market.


   Understanding Holding the Market  

Not only is holding the market often a violation of securities regulations and exchange rules, but holding the market is hard to pull off these days because someone would have to have very deep pockets to make a significant impact on a security's price. One factor that keeps the practice of holding the market from occurring more frequently is that it is rarely profitable and can often lead to severe losses if prices do not rebound.



However, if an investor with very deep pockets is considering a holding the market strategy, it behooves them to first try and understand why the price of the security is dropping.



Stocks that are declining in price often have recurring themes that, once identified, can help an investor decide if a holding the market strategy is the right course of action. These themes are typically related to one of three things:



Market movement as a wholeIndustry actionFirm-specific issues


   Considerations for a Holding the Market Strategy  

Most stocks react to market sentiment in predictable ways. Therefore, if negative news is released and the price of a stock remains steady—or even rises—especially with above-average trading volume, further investigation may be warranted. If a company's fundamentals have not dramatically changed for the better, it could be the case that a group of individuals or firms is trying to artificially keep the price up using a series of bid orders, many of which may be spoofed (fake) orders that do not intend to trade.



Of course, not every anomalous or unexpected price movement is nefarious. There may be legitimate buy orders of large blocks placed by institutional investors for several reasonable and allowable purposes, such as rebalancing, hedging, or addition to a large portfolio.
What Are Holdings?  

Holdings are the contents of an investment portfolio held by an individual or an entity, such as a mutual fund or a pension fund. Portfolio holdings may encompass a wide range of investment products, including stocks, bonds, mutual funds, options, futures, and exchange traded funds (ETFs).





Key Takeaways

Holdings are the contents of an investment portfolio held by an individual or an entity, such as a mutual fund or a pension fund.Portfolio holdings may encompass a wide range of investment products, including stocks, bonds, mutual funds, options, futures, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs).The number and types of holdings within a portfolio contribute to the degree of its diversification.Diversification is a risk management strategy that mixes a wide variety of investments within a portfolio; a portfolio constructed of different kinds of assets will, on average, yield higher long-term returns and lower the risk of any individual holding or security.


   Understanding Holdings  

The number and types of holdings within a portfolio contribute to the degree of its diversification. Diversification is a risk management strategy that mixes a wide variety of investments within a portfolio. A portfolio constructed of different kinds of assets will, on average, yield higher long-term returns and lower the risk of any individual holding or security.



A well-diversified portfolio contains a mix of distinct asset types and investment vehicles; for example, a mix of stocks across different sectors, bonds of different maturities, and other investments. A portfolio that has concentrated holdings in a handful of stocks within a single sector indicates that there is very limited diversification. The proportion of holdings within a portfolio has a significant impact on its overall return. The performance of the largest holdings within the portfolio has a bigger influence on the overall portfolio return than any small or medium-sized holdings in the portfolio.



Retail investors routinely scour the lists of the holdings of top money managers to piggyback on their trades (and, hopefully, on their success). Investors may seek to replicate the trading activity of the most successful portfolio managers by buying stocks where the manager has initiated a long position or added significantly to an existing position and selling positions when the manager has exited a stake. This strategy may not always be successful for the average investor, given the considerable time lag between the time when the manager completes the trades and the time when the fund's holdings are made available to the general public.



The holdings of famous and smaller fund managers are published quarterly through a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filing known as a 13F. Investors have 45 days until the end of the quarter to report their holdings for the previous quarter. The requirement applies only to long stock positions, however, which means other holdings such as short positions, options, and foreign holdings are not disclosed.


   Holdings vs. Holding Companies  

A holding company is a type of company that holds the outstanding shares of other companies. A holding company usually does not provide any other services—such as producing goods or services—or engage in business directly. Rather, a holding company only serves as an ownership vehicle of other companies or investments. Sometimes, a company that is intended to be a pure holding company identifies itself as such by adding the word "Holding" or "Holdings" to the end of its name.



A famous example of a holding company is Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the Omaha, Nebraska-based company that has Warren Buffett at its helm as the chair and chief executive. Berkshire Hathaway started as a textile manufacturing company in the early nineteenth century. While the company was successful in its first decades, it suffered alongside the decline of the textile industry after World War I.



In the 1960s, Buffett began buying stock in Berkshire Hathaway. He eventually bought enough stock in the company that he could take control of it and oust the current owner of the company. At first, Buffett maintained Berkshire Hathaway's core business of textiles but, in 1985, the last textile operation was shut down. For several decades now, Berkshire Hathaway has only been a holding company that Buffett uses to acquire, hold and sell various investments in other companies. Some of Berkshire Hathaway's key holdings include the Kraft Heinz Company, American Express, The Coca-Cola Company, and Bank of America.



In some cases, investors may choose to create a limited liability company (LLC) that can then own all of their investments. They may do so to reduce their personal exposure to risk, minimize their taxes or pool their investments with other people, such as business associates or family members.
What Is a Holdover Tenant?  

A holdover tenant is a renter who remains in a property after the expiration of the lease. If the landlord continues to accept rent payments, the holdover tenant can continue to legally occupy the property, and state laws and court rulings determine the length of the holdover tenant’s new rental term. If the landlord does not accept further rent payments, the tenant is considered to be trespassing, and if they do not promptly move out, an eviction may be necessary.





Key Takeaways

A holdover tenant is a tenant who continues to pay rent, even after the lease has expired. The landlord must also agree, or else eviction proceedings may occur.Holdover tenancy exists in a gray area between a full rental contract and trespassing. Even a simple one-sentence agreement offers more protection to all parties and should be considered.This issue is often negated by the month-to-month rental clause that's in most tenancy agreements.


   Understanding Holdover Tenants  

Landlords who want to avoid the mistake of winding up with a holdover tenant should always include a clause in the original lease stating what happens at the end of the lease period in order to protect their property and interests. A year-long apartment rental lease, for example, might specify that when the lease expires, it converts to a month-to-month lease.



If a landlord accepts rent from a holdover tenant, the implications vary based on state and local laws. In some cases accepting payment resets the lease term. To illustrate, if the original lease was for a year, a new year-long lease starts when the landlord accepts a rent payment after the first lease has expired. In other cases accepting payment from a holdover tenant triggers a month-to-month lease.



To remove a tenant from a property, a landlord must initiate a holdover proceeding, which essentially is an eviction case that is not based on missed rent payments. This is a process that is usually handled in eviction or small claims courts.






If a landlord wants a holdover tenant to vacate a property, the landlord must not accept rent from the tenant and must treat them as a trespasser.


   Holdover Tenant Rights  

Holdover tenants have a tenancy at sufferance. The term “sufferance” means the absence of objection without genuine approval, and a tenancy at sufferance is the opposite of a tenancy-at-will, where a tenant occupies the property with the consent of the owner but generally without a written contract or lease. Tenancy at sufferance, on the other hand, refers to holdover tenants of an expired lease who no longer have the landlord’s permission to remain in the property but have not yet been evicted.﻿﻿



When a landlord wishes to evict you as a holdover tenant, they generally must serve you with a notice of termination, though, as noted above, this is regulated by the state and so can vary from state to state. The notice precipitates the holdover proceeding. In New York State, a notice of termination must be served in the following circumstances:﻿﻿



Your lease ended, but the landlord/owner has since taken rent from you.You have no written lease, but you pay rent each month.The landlord/owner wants to evict you even though the lease is not up.You live in rent regulated housing.You have a Section 8 subsidy.Your lease requires it.



The notice must tell you the reason for the termination, the date on which you must move, and that the landlord will begin legal action if you don’t comply by the deadline. Reasons can include the expiration of a lease, bad behavior as a tenant (being too noisy, for example, or having an unapproved pet), being a subtenant without the landlord’s knowledge, being a squatter (moving in without the landlord’s knowledge), unreasonably refusing the landlord access to the property, and having made unapproved physical changes to the premises (such as putting up a wall).﻿﻿



However, you are not entitled to receive a notice of termination if your lease has expired but you have remained in the property without paying rent. In that case a landlord can begin a holdover proceeding without notice.﻿﻿
What Are Holdovers?  

In finance, the term "holdovers" refers to transactions—usually checks—that have not yet been processed. In most cases today, the period of time in which checks are held as holdovers typically does not exceed one business day.



A holdover may also refer to a tenant who remains in a property after the expiration of the lease and is subject to eviction.





Key Takeaways

Holdovers are transactions that have not yet been processed by banks.The most common example is that of a check that does not get deposited until the next business day after it was received too late in the day.Holdovers can cause a phenomenon known as holdover float, during which money temporarily exists in two accounts simultaneously.However, this duplication is typically quickly corrected by the banks once the associated checks have been processed.Holdovers can lead to illegal or fraudulent use of bad checks, such as floating checks and kiting.


   Understanding Holdovers  

Holdovers usually occur when a bank does not have enough time to process all of the payments it has received before the end of a business day. They are typically found in large clearinghouse banks, and they are different from the holds placed by banks on out-of-state or third-party checks. In this case, the check is usually held over simply because it was received too late in the day for same-day processing.



For instance, a customer might bring in a large number of checks to be deposited near the end of a business day. Such a situation might produce holdover checks if the bank is unable to process them during that same day. Those holdover checks would then be bundled together and deposited during the following business day.


   Special Considerations  

When a bank has holdovers, it will provide the depositor with a deposit ticket processed on the date that it received the instruments. Nevertheless, this situation can give rise to holdover float, whereby the money represented by the holdover checks briefly exists in duplicate: once in the account against which the holdover checks are drawn, and a second time in the account into which they are deposited.



To avoid holdover float, some banks will post a debit to the account in which the holdover checks are to be deposited. When the holdover items are processed the next day, this debit will be zeroed out. Additionally, some banks will require customers who frequently cause holdovers to sign an agreement specifying the conditions of the holdover. Other banks, on the other hand, address this issue by refusing to allow holdovers at all. Instead, they simply instruct customers that holdover items will be processed on the next business day.





Managing Holdovers

Banks will typically only permit holdovers on behalf of customers with good credit ratings. When bank examiners see holdovers occurring, they typically take care to ensure that the holdovers are processed the next business day and that holdover debits are zeroed out regularly.


   Holdover Timing  

Although holdovers are generally rare at individual banks, they are relatively common if viewed at the level of the overall financial system.



For instance, the Federal Reserve has observed increased levels of holdover float on Tuesdays, due to the backlog of checks that were deposited but not processed over the preceding weekend.



Similarly, holdover float is generally highest in December and January, due to unprocessed checks deposited during the holiday season. Temporary disruptions to banking hours, such as severe weather events, can also leave holdover floats in their wake.






Scammers can take advantage of holdovers on check clearing to commit fraud. Check kiting, for example, targets banks or retailers through writing a series of bad checks, sometimes drawn on multiple accounts.


   Reducing Holdovers  

While holdovers allow for checks to properly clear, they also provide banks with essentially "free" funds. In order to keep banks from misusing these funds, the Monetary Control Act of 1980 specified several provisions to prevent or minimize holdovers. Some of these measures included having the Federal Reserve charge banks for certain activities like manual check processing, and encouraged the use of electronic payments networks and computer-readable check account routing information. These allowed for much quicker and more efficient processing of checks and other payments, reducing holdovers and shortening float time.




What Does Floating Mean in Banking?
In banking, float refers to payments that have not yet cleared, and so is essentially money that is counted twice. Bank float is highly regulated today, and manipulations or misuse of it can amount to fraud.




What Are the Risks of a Floating Check?
A floating check is one that has been written but has not yet cleared. Today, many banks immediately advance money from deposited checks to their customers. But, if the check is fraudulent or does not have enough money to draw from (i.e., a bounced check), bad actors can use the float interval to make fraudulent purchases or withdraw cash they do not actually have (such as in check kiting). Floating checks can defraud the economy of millions of dollars a year by scammers.




Is Floating a Check Illegal?
Yes, floating a check is illegal in most U.S. states. While writing a check with insufficient funds can result in a bounced check, this is not illegal. However, using the time it takes to clear or detect a bounced check to commit fraud is.




What Is Concentration Banking?
A concentration bank is a main branch of a bank that aggregates funds from satellite branches of that bank in order to facilitate payments and transfers.

What Is Hollowing Out?  

Hollowing out is the deterioration of a country’s manufacturing sector when producers opt for low-cost facilities overseas. Taking away these jobs has helped to concentrate wealth among the very wealthy, hollow out the middle class, and increase the number of working-class and lower-class households.





Key Takeaways

Hollowing out refers to the disappearance of middle-class manufacturing jobs and spending power as socioeconomic stratification intensifies.This leads to an increase in working-class and lower-class households along with a growing concentration of wealth among the very wealthy.Economists have blamed this phenomenon on several concurrent factors, including outsourcing jobs, labor-saving technologies, and demographic changes.


   Understanding Hollowing Out  

Over the past few decades, many of the world’s leading economies have experienced hollowing out as manufacturing jobs were sent to regions with lower labor costs, such as China or Bangladesh. After peaking in 1979 at more than 19 million, the number of U.S. manufacturing jobs shrank to fewer than 12 million by 2020.



Other advanced economies have experienced a similar trend. In Japan, for example, the percentage of employment in manufacturing has plummeted since reaching nearly 28% in the 1970s. By 2012, 16.6% of people were said to be employed in the sector and there hasn't been much change since. This has had a disproportionate impact on cities and rural communities that relied heavily on nearby plants for employment.



Not all economists believe that outsourcing of manufacturing and the subsequent hollowing out of jobs hurts society on net, however. Some argue that it presents the domestic economy with an opportunity to pivot toward high-skill, high-wage jobs such as product design and marketing. They also argue that consumers benefit from the products they buy being made overseas as it leads to lower prices.


  Moravec’s Paradox  

Robots and other labor-saving technologies are likely to cause a further hollowing out of middle-class jobs. This has been quantified into something known as Moravec’s paradox.



In the 1980s, artificial intelligence (AI) experts discovered that robots find difficult things easy and easy things difficult. Hans Moravec, one of these AI researchers, said, “It is comparatively easy to make computers exhibit adult-level performance on intelligence tests or playing checkers, and difficult or impossible to give them the skills of a one-year-old when it comes to perception and mobility.”



Put another way, if you wanted to beat Magnus Carlsen, the world chess champion, you would choose a computer. If you wanted to clean the chess pieces after the game, you would choose a human being.


   Hollowing Out Data  

Income inequality is becoming a growing issue in the U.S. and many other places in the world. Everywhere you look, there's research illustrating that middle-class disposable incomes are declining as the rich get richer.



From 1970 to 2018, the share of aggregate income going to middle-class households in the U.S. fell from 62% to 43%, while the share held by upper-income households increased from 29% to 48%, according to the Pew Research Center. This has led the American middle-class population to shrink from 61% in 1971 to 51% in 2019.






While the middle class is indeed hollowing out, the Pew Research Center notes that the dynamic is complex: Some families dropped into the lower-income bracket, whereas others climbed into the upper-income bracket.



The Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) came to a similar conclusion when looking at most of the globe. According to its findings, from the mid-1980s to the mid-2010s, middle incomes barely grew in OECD countries and increased a third less than the average income of the richest 10% as labor markets changed and the cost of living skyrocketed.




What Caused the Decline of the Middle Class?
The squeezing of the middle class has been blamed on several different factors, including the outsourcing of jobs abroad, the arrival of labor-saving technologies, and the rising costs of education, healthcare, and housing.




How Much Has the Middle Class Shrunk?
Various studies have been published on the shrinking middle class. Results vary depending on the country being analyzed, the timeframe being examined, and the criteria of the study. In 2020, the Pew Research Center claimed that the share of American adults living in middle-income households decreased from 61% in 1971 to 51% in 2019. The OECD, meanwhile, said in 2019 that the share of people in middle-income households—defined as households earning between 75% and 200% of the median national income—across OECD countries fell from 64% in the mid-1980s to 61% in the mid-2010s.




How Does a Shrinking Middle Class Affect the Economy?
There are valid reasons to believe that a shrinking middle class is bad for economic growth. This group has historically been responsible for a large chunk of spending, fueling demand for goods and services and keeping the economy ticking well.
What Is the Hollywood Stock Exchange (HSX)?  

The Hollywood Stock Exchange (HSX) is an online prediction market in which "investors" bet on the performance of various components of the entertainment industry. The bets are made using credits called Moviestocks, Starbonds, Celebstocks, TVStocks, Movie Funds, and various derivatives.



Trades are made in "Hollywood dollars," which players receive when they open an account, make successful trades, and participate in the website's quizzes. Each "investment" has a ticker-like symbol: For example, the symbol for the movie Iron Man 3 is IRNM3.





Key Takeaways

The Hollywood Stock Exchange (HSX) is an entertainment "stock market" where people can buy and sell virtual shares of celebrities and movies with a currency called the Hollywood Dollar®.Share values rise or fall based on the success of the underlying film or celebrity in the entertainment market. Prices can soar with a blockbuster opening at the box office and plummet with a bomb no one went to see.Founded in 1996, the New York City-based brokerage firm Cantor Fitzgerald purchased the HSX in 2010.It is now headquartered in Los Angeles, California.


   Understanding the Hollywood Stock Exchange (HSX)  

The Hollywood Stock Exchange game uses virtual specialist technology invented by Hollywood Stock Exchange co-founders and creators Max Keiser and Michael R. Burns. The exchange has been in operation since 1996 and is owned by brokerage firm Cantor Fitzgerald, which launched a real-world exchange similar to HSX, called the Cantor Exchange, in 2010.



Previous incarnations of the game included a music market (for purchasing musical artists), prizes for top gainers, and briefly, a "buyout" program in which the Hollywood Stock Exchange would reward top players by purchasing their portfolios at a price of $1 per $1 million of exchange currency if the player listed the portfolio for sale on eBay. These features have been discontinued. The now-discontinued practice of selling portfolios on eBay was inaugurated by Curtis Edmonds, a former Texas lawyer.



The Hollywood Stock Exchange attracted some private investment during the dotcom boom and ran TV ads on cable channels in an effort to attract players. After the dotcom crash, the exchange was acquired by units of Cantor Fitzgerald. Cantor Fitzgerald has used the exchange’s Moviestock prices to assist its gambling operations in the United Kingdom, in which bettors can place wagers on how much money U.S. films will gross.






New users who sign up receive H$2,000,000 of virtual Hollywood Dollars to get started playing the Hollywood Stock Exchange game.


   The Hollywood Stock Exchange and Prediction Markets  

The Hollywood Stock Exchange is a prediction market in the form of a game. Prediction markets are those created to trade on the outcome of events. The market prices generally indicate what the majority of players or "crowd" thinks is the probability of a particular event occurring. A prediction market contract will trade between 0% and 100%. It is a binary option that will expire at the price of 0% or 100%. Prediction markets can be thought of as belonging to the more general concept of crowdsourcing, which is specifically designed to aggregate information on particular topics of interest.



Prediction markets, which tend to be quite accurate, exist for a wide range of subjects. Some, like the Iowa Electronic Markets, trade in real money. Lately, prediction markets have become quite popular for elections. The website fivethirtyeight.com, which analyzes the likely outcome of elections, among other events, factors in prediction markets.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the HSX  

The trading in Moviestocks and Starbonds serves to predict the box office in the first four weeks of a film's wide release. Depending on the number of investors at any given time, the HSX should be relatively easy to manipulate. In contrast to the regular shares, however, there are special "warrants" issued around holidays and the summer blockbuster season that have specific prices at issue. These make money if the box office exceeds the face amount and expire worthless if they do not.





Pros

Few barriers to entry
Provides valuable market information to predict movie successes and failures far in advance of opening



Cons

Small markets are relatively easy to manipulate.
Prices highly vulnerable to events like casting announcements





   Example of the HSX  

Let's say that you think Al Pacino, getting renewed interest because of the re-release of the Godfather films, still has a great film left in him and you want the opportunity to make money from that. You can place a trade with Hollywood Dollars to buy (go long) an Al Pacino StarBond at a particular price. Or, if you think for example, that the world has seen enough of Pacino, you could sell his StarBond short, which allows you to profit from the downward movements in the overall price of Mr. Pacino's StarBonds.



With both the long and short positions, when the market moves enough in your direction for you to make enough money to make you happy with your purchase, you sell your long position or buy back your short position, and the extra Hollywood Dollars you receive are your profit.


   The Bottom Line  

The Hollywood Stock Exchange allows you an exciting way to participate in predicting the success or failure of upcoming films and movie star careers. You receive two million Hollywood Dollars when you join that let you trade at will. Winning trades give you more Hollywood Dollars and start you on the road to mogul status.


   Hollywood Stock Exchange FAQs  


How Do I Place a Trade on the HSX?
Once you have opened an account, you can purchase and sell films and stars in the Movie Market. Stars are denominated in StarBonds, while movies are traded in MovieStocks. Trading, which can be long or short, is executed in Hollywood Dollars. You receive two million Hollywood Dollars when you open your account.




Are there Initial Public Offerings on the HSX?
Yes. The first time a star or a movie is added to the HSX, it is called an initial public offering or IPO. Most of the time, the price of an IPO MovieStock or StarBond will remain the same for the first day of trading.




Can I Lose Hollywood Dollars on a Trade?
Yes. If the value of a MovieStock or StarBond you own, goes down and you sell it, you will have lost money. However, the really risky way to lose is where you sold or shorted a MovieStock or StarBond because you thought the value was going to go down. As the bond or stock goes up in value, your paper loss will increase until you liquidate that trade or the bond or stock expires. So, if you sorted a MovieStock at H$10 and it eventually closes out at H$100, you will have lost H$90.
What Is a Holographic Will?  

A holographic will is a handwritten and testator-signed document and is an alternative to a will produced by a lawyer. Some states do not recognize holographic wills. States that do permit holographic wills require the document meet specific requirements to be valid. The minimal requirements for most states are proof that the testator wrote the will, evidence that the testator had the mental capacity to write the will, and the will must contain the testator's wish to disburse personal property to beneficiaries.





Key Takeaways

Holographic wills can be alternatives to wills that lawyers create.Holographic wills do not require notarization or witnesses.This type of will can lead to problems in probate court.


   How a Holographic Will Works  

Holographic wills do not need to be witnessed or notarized, which can lead to some issues during will validation in probate court. To avoid fraud, most states require that a holographic will contain the maker's signature. However, the courts will have to determine whether the will was signed in the testator's signature and by the testator's hand.



Handwriting experts or people familiar with the decedents' handwriting must convince the court that the signature was indeed that of the deceased. Problems arise when the handwriting is vague or illegible.



As with any will, a testator to a holographic will must be explicit as to named beneficiaries and the receipt of property or assets, such as stocks, bonds, and fund accounts. The testator may also detail circumstances for recipients to meet to receive named assets.






Holographic wills are not accepted in all states and are subject to each states' laws.



Some lawyers recommend that explaining why specific property or other assets such as securities would be left to which beneficiaries would indicate that the testator was of sound mind. Being of sound mind is a crucial provision in determining the validity of a holographic will.



Also, a holographic will argued in probate court may not contain the testator's final wishes. The decedent may have written the holographic will as a draft or may have utterly forgotten to update it. These questions may be brought up in court.



Today, there are a variety of software, books, and websites with detailed instructions on how to create and print a valid will and avoid some probate court problems. If a will is printed as opposed to being handwritten, it requires the witness of at least two people.


   Where Are Holographic Wills Accepted?  

It's important to note that state probate law ultimately decides the treatment of all wills within its borders. Some states will accept holographic wills to varying degrees. These states include; Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Michigan, Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming.



In some states, holographic wills made within the state are not recognized, but such wills that are made within jurisdictions where holographic wills are recognized are accepted under foreign wills provisions. In order for a holographic will to be recognized as valid under a foreign wills provision where this practice is legal, the holographic will must have been made in a jurisdiction that recognizes holographic wills. States with foreign wills or foreign testament provisions include Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Iowa, Minnesota, New Mexico, Rhode Island, South Carolina, and Washington.



In New York and Maryland, holographic wills are only recognized if they are made by a member of the Armed Forces. In Maryland, these wills remain valid only for one year after the testator leaves the Armed Forces unless they are no longer of sound mind under the law at that time. In New York, such a will is valid for one year after the testator is discharged from the Armed Forces, or for one year after they regain a testamentary capacity, whichever happens first.
What Is a Home?  

A home is a physical domicile or structure in which a person or household resides. In a legal sense, a home is the place of permanent residency where one lives, or intends to return to live.





key takeaways

Legally, a home is a person's permanent primary residence—even if they aren't currently living there.A physical location is still legally considered a home if there is an intention to return and the resident has not claimed someplace else as their legal place of permanent or principal residence.A home can determine everything from the taxes one pays to one's citizenship status to the laws one follows.


   Understanding a Home  

While it is full of emotional connotations, a home has specific legal connotations, as it is used to determine many things, from tax liability to a person’s status in the country they reside in. It can also be used to determine which state's probate laws are followed, a state’s rights when it comes to collecting taxes, and citizenship when a person resides in a different country than where they were born.



If a person owns more than one dwelling, like a vacation home or an investment property, for example, their primary residence is the location that will be considered their legal home. This legal status will impact how their taxes are paid on that property, as opposed to their responsibility for taxes on their other properties. There are certain write-offs and deductions that can only be used on a person’s primary residence.



The type of homeowner’s insurance or hazard insurance that a person carries on their home will also vary based on the type of occupancy. Since a home is an owner-occupied property, certain additional coverages apply—as opposed to a non-owner-occupied property, which may only carry a policy that covers the building and not the contents. The latter would be the case with a property that is occupied by someone other than the owner, like a rental property. A renter may choose to carry their own renter's insurance to protect their belongings within the rented unit, but it is the building's landlord who can carry homeowners insurance (or a commercial version thereof)—which would generally cover only the building and its infrastructure.



Although a home may be vacant if a person is traveling for an extended period, or has been hospitalized, the location is still legally considered their home if there is an intention to return and they have not claimed someplace else as their legal place of permanent or principal residence.


   An Example of a Home  

For example, imagine Mary Smith owns three properties. The first is a beach house in New Jersey. She uses this property during the summer months with her children; in the wintertime, the property remains empty. This is her vacation home.



Her second property is a condominium in New York City. She rents the condominium out to Kate Jones, who lives there full-time, and pays her $1,500 a month in rent. This is her investment property.



Her third and final property is a two-story house in a suburb just outside of Philadelphia. It is where she lives with her spouse and three children. Her kids go to school within the local district, and she pays her state and local income taxes based on Pennsylvania’s rates. This is her home, or primary residence.



Now consider that Mary’s oldest child is ready to graduate from high school and is applying to colleges. New York state offers free college tuition to residents—that is, people who live in the state of New York. Although Mary owns a condominium in New York, neither she nor her kids call the state home. They will be unable to take advantage of New York’s free college tuition program.



However, Kate Jones, her New York condo tenant, is eligible to take advantage of the state’s free tuition. Even though she doesn’t own the property she resides in, it is her legal residence, and she calls New York City, within the state of New York, home.
What Is the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP)?  

The Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) was a loan modification program introduced by the federal government in 2009 to help struggling homeowners avoid foreclosure. The program's focus was to help homeowners who paid more than 31% of their gross income toward mortgage payments. The program expired at the end of 2016.





Key Takeaways

The Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) was a federal program introduced in 2009 to help struggling homeowners avoid foreclosure.The HAMP allowed homeowners to reduce their mortgage principal and/or interest rates, temporarily postpone payments, or get loan extensions.The program expired at the end of 2016 and has not been renewed.


   Understanding the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP)  

HAMP was created under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) in response to the subprime mortgage crisis of 2008. During this period, many American homeowners found themselves unable to sell or refinance their homes after the market crashed because of tighter credit markets. Monthly payments became unaffordable when higher market rates kicked in on adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs), leaving plenty of people at risk of foreclosure.






Although taxpayers subsidized some of the loan modifications, arguably the most significant contribution of HAMP was standardizing what had been a haphazard loan modification system.



In order to qualify, mortgagors needed to make more than 31% of their gross income on their monthly payments. Property requirements were also enforced—they had to pass the net present value (NPV) test, along with other eligibility standards.



A property became eligible if the analysis showed a lender or investor currently holding the loan would make more money by modifying the loan rather than foreclosing. Other than the requirement that a homeowner prove financial hardship, the home had to be habitable and have an unpaid principal balance under $729,750.



Relief took several forms, all of which would have the effect of reducing monthly payments. For instance, eligible homeowners could receive reductions in their mortgage principal and interest rates. There was also the possibility of a temporary postponement of mortgage payments—also known as forbearance. And, if favorable, a homeowner was able to extend their existing loan terms.



In many cases, an already modified loan was eligible for HAMP modification, too, reducing a homeowner’s payment even further.






Families in the program decreased their monthly payments by an average of more than $530.


   Special Considerations  

The government refers to the ratio of payments to gross income as the front-end debt-to-income ratio (DTI). The HAMP program, working in conjunction with mortgage lenders, helped provide incentives for banks to reduce the debt-to-income ratio to less than or equal to 38%. The Treasury would then step in to minimize the DTI ratio to 31% or less.



HAMP incentivized private lenders and investors to fund their loan adjustments. Mortgage servicers received an up-front payment of $1,000 for each eligible modification they performed. These lenders were also eligible to receive up to $1,000 per year for each borrower in the program for up to five years, and a $5,000 one-time payment at the end of year six.



The original HAMP was limited to principal residences. In 2012, the program was then revised to include homes not occupied by the owner, households with multiple mortgages, and homeowners whose DTI ratio was either lower or higher than the original requirement of 31%.


   The Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) vs. the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP)  

HAMP was complemented by another initiative called the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP). Like HAMP, HARP was offered by the federal government. But there were a subtle few differences.



While HAMP helped people who were on the verge of foreclosure, homeowners needed to be underwater or close to that point to qualify for HARP. The program allowed people with homes worth less than the outstanding balance on their mortgages to refinance their loans, as well as homeowners with a loan-to-value ratio (LTV) of more than 80%.



Only those whose loans were guaranteed or acquired by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac prior to May 31, 2009, were eligible. Eligibility was also contingent on whether the homeowner was up-to-date on their mortgage payments. In addition, mortgagors should have been able to benefit from lower payments or from switching to a more stable mortgage product.



The deadline for HARP was originally intended for Dec. 31, 2017. However, that date was extended, pushing the program's expiration date to December 2018.




When Was the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) Active?
The Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) was a loan modification program introduced in 2009 to help mitigate the impact of the 2008 subprime mortgage crisis. It expired in 2016.




Who Qualified for HAMP?
Initially, between 2009 and 2011, only principal residences could qualify. But starting in 2012, the program was opened up to include second homes, homes that an owner was renting out, households with multiple mortgages and homeowners who didn't initially qualify for the program based on certain financial eligibility standards.




How Much Money Could You Save on Your Mortgage Under Hamp?
Under the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP), a homeowner was able to receive up to $10,000 in principal reduction as an acknowledgment of having made mortgage payments in full and on time. That broke down to $1,000 per year for the first five years, and a one-time payment of $5,000 at the end of year six.
What Is the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP)?  

The Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) was a program offered by the Federal Housing Finance Agency to homeowners who own homes that are worth less than the outstanding balance on the oan.﻿﻿



The program has since ended, but it was intended to provide relief after the financial crisis of 2008. HARP was created to help underwater and near-underwater homeowners refinance their mortgages due to falling home prices. While HARP ended in December 2018, there are still options for borrowers who are underwater on their mortgages. A homeowner who is underwater on their mortgage owes more on their home than it is worth.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

The Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) was a program offered by the Federal Housing Finance Agency to homeowners who own homes that are worth less than the outstanding balance on the loan.The program has since ended, but it was intended to provide relief after the financial crisis of 2008.While HARP ended in December 2018, there are still options for borrowers who are underwater on their mortgages.﻿﻿


   Understanding the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP)  

The Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) refinance was only available for mortgages that were guaranteed by either Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae—the program was created in coordination with these entities. In order to be eligible for HARP, homeowners must have been in possession of mortgages that were sold to either of those entities prior to May 31, 2009.﻿﻿



Due to the impact of the 2008 financial crisis, and its effect on real estate values throughout the United States, many homeowners found themselves upside down or underwater on their home loans. Upside down or underwater is used to describe instances when a borrower owes more on a loan than the current value of the collateral it is secured against.



In the case of a mortgage, the collateral is the property. The federal government launched HARP in 2009 to attempt to slow the rate of foreclosures and help borrowers that had been taken advantage of by subprime lending practices.﻿﻿



The program was only available to borrowers who qualified. Borrowers were required to be current on their mortgage payments and the property had to be in good condition. Borrowers who had already defaulted or had vacated their properties were not eligible for the program. Any participating lender was eligible to aid a borrower in a HARP refinance. Borrowers did not have to go through their current lender.﻿﻿



The program ended on December 31, 2018.﻿﻿


   Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) vs. Home Affordable Modification Program  

Another program that was rolled out to stem the flow of foreclosures after the market crashed was called a mortgage modification. The Home Affordable Modification Program expired before HARP, in 2016. Unlike HARP refinances, these programs were for borrowers that had already defaulted on their loan, or for whom default was imminent.﻿﻿



A modification could only be secured through the existing lender, and each lender had its own requirements for qualification. Although the process to modify a mortgage changes the terms of a mortgage note, it is not the same as a refinance.



Sometimes modifications can report on the borrower’s credit report as having the terms of the mortgage altered. In some cases, modifications can impact future creditworthiness. Some borrowers may also be faced with an additional tax liability, as the terms of their modification may include writing off a portion of the debt that is owed, which the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may count as earned income.
What Is Home Banking?  

Home banking is the practice of conducting banking transactions from home rather than at branch locations. Home banking generally refers to mobile banking, web banking, banking over the telephone, or banking by mail. The first experiments with online banking started in the early 1980s. However, it did not become popular until the rise of the Internet in the mid-1990s. Many Internet banks maintain few, if any, physical branches.





Key Takeaways

Home banking is the practice of conducting banking transactions from home rather than at branch locationsHome banking includes mobile banking, web banking, banking over the telephone, and banking by mail.Saving time and reducing physical risks are the main benefits of home banking.However, home banking can also expose users to cybersecurity risks.


   Understanding Home Banking  

The increasing popularity of home banking has fundamentally changed the character of the banking industry. Many people can arrange their affairs so that they seldom need to visit a physical branch. Online-only banks have profited from this shift in the industry. The absence of brick and mortar locations allows many online banks to offer favorable interest rates, lower service charges, and other incentives for those willing to bank online.



Many of the limits on home banking revolve around initiating large transactions. Requiring a personal appearance reduces and even prevents some forms of fraud. Although there is an increasing trend toward offering more services online, many banks normally require that some transactions occur in person. For instance, applying for a personal or business loan often calls for an appearance at a branch office. Applying for a mortgage is another financial transaction where the applicant historically had to visit the bank at some point.


   Types of Home Banking  
  Mobile Banking  

Banking via mobile phone apps has become increasingly popular. Most mobile apps are easier to use than websites, and they have some security benefits. In particular, banking apps can provide protection from phishing attacks. Mobile apps also often allow users to access features that are not available via websites. For example, it is frequently possible to scan paper checks with an app, while this feature is less common on websites.


  Web Banking  

Web banking via the Internet is still fairly common. Nearly all banks have websites that allow access to checking accounts and savings accounts. Web banking is generally available for both individuals and small businesses. Some users may be more comfortable with web banking than new apps for mobile phones. The vast majority of web browsers are also open source and thoroughly tested, which makes them more secure than most mobile apps.


  Banking Over the Telephone  

Banking over the telephone is one of the oldest forms of home banking, and it still has some uses. Some of the earliest home banking services were automated systems for obtaining account balances over the phone. While the Internet has mostly taken over that function, banking by phone remains a useful fallback. Phone calls are a way for banks to verify if customers actually made suspicious looking transactions. Phone calls also help customers to resolve issues when errors occur.


  Banking by Mail  

Banking by mail continues to enjoy some popularity. Depositing paper checks via mail is simple and intuitive for people who usually do their banking in person. Furthermore, banking by mail does not introduce the cybersecurity risks associated with online banking. Banking by mail is a good alternative for customers with a temporary need for home banking.


   Advantages of Home Banking  

Saving time and reducing physical risks are the main benefits of home banking. Financial transactions can often be completed in minutes at home. At best, banking in person requires walking over to a small branch office in a convenient location, such as a grocery store. At worst, traditional banking demands a separate trip and waiting in a long line upon arrival. Home banking also eliminates the need to take physical risks. Car accidents killed tens of thousands of Americans every year in the early 21st century. Furthermore, many people are afraid of being robbed at ATMs.


   Disadvantages of Home Banking  

With the increased shift to online banking, new security threats have arisen. All online information, such as account numbers and recent transactions, is vulnerable to malicious hackers and other thieves. Commercial banks with online arms have put into place cybersecurity measures to prevent such thefts from occurring. Cybersecurity has become essential as the world becomes more reliant on computers than ever before.






Although there are cybersecurity risks related to home banking, they are generally less serious than the physical risks of banking in person.



There are two main types of threats to online banking customers, black hat hackers and computer viruses. Professional hackers usually focus on servers, where they can compromise many accounts at once. User defenses against these attacks are limited to using unique passwords for each site and some forms of two-factor authentication. Viruses often automatically harvest banking credentials from the systems that they infect. Antivirus software and firewalls usually stop most of these attacks. However, using a separate device or live boot media for sensitive financial transactions can offer even better protection.
What Is Home Bias?  

The term home bias refers to the tendency for investors to invest the majority of their portfolio in domestic equities, ignoring the benefits of diversifying into foreign equities. This bias was originally believed to have arisen as a result of the extra difficulties associated with investing in foreign equities, such as legal restrictions and additional transaction costs. Other investors may simply exhibit home bias due to a preference for investing in what they are already familiar with rather than moving into the unknown.





Key Takeaways

Home bias is an investor's preference to invest primarily in domestic equities rather than diversifying with foreign investments.Transaction costs, inaccessibility, and unfamiliarity with foreign equities were reasons for investors to have a home bias.Some generations may be more likely to exhibit home bias over others.Home bias affects individual investors as well as experienced and professional investors, such as mutual fund managers.Investing in foreign equities is now easier because of the availability of information as well as investment vehicles like ETFs.


   Understanding Home Bias  

Home bias is a phenomenon that generally occurs within equity markets. It is commonly believed to be driven by emotions rather than objectivity. Investors with home bias tend to stick with investments with which they're familiar. As such, they'll invest in the stocks of domestic companies rather than those in foreign markets. That's because these investors have a greater degree of comfort in choosing investments in their own country.



There are a number of factors that can lead an investor to favor domestic investments, including:



Greater availability of domestic investments
Unfamiliarity with foreign markets
Lack of transparency
Transaction costs
Greater barriers to entry in foreign markets
Higher risks associated with international investing
A preference for domestic markets over foreign investments



U.S. equities represent about 60% of the global market. According to Charles Schwab, Americans invest 85% of their portfolios in domestic equities. Research shows that some generations are more likely to experience home bias than others. For instance, as many as 45% of baby boomers have some form of home bias—the largest group among those researched by Charles Schwab. Millennials were the least likely, with only 24% of investors primarily focusing on U.S. markets.



Home bias doesn't just apply to individual investors. In fact, some professional U.S. mutual fund managers are also likely to demonstrate the same behavioral biases in their portfolio decisions as individual investors. In fact, the study showed that the average fund tends to be overweight in stocks from its managers' home states. One important point to note is that the researchers found the bias to be stronger among managers who are less experienced.






Home bias isn't restricted to American investors. In fact, investors from all over the world tend to be biased toward investing in their particular domestic equities, including Finland, Japan, and Germany. And it's also common among investors who are more experienced and sophisticated.


   Special Considerations  

Systemic risk is any risk that is associated with the entire segment of a market, which means it doesn't impact one specific stock or sector. While systematic risk is broadly believed to be non-diversifiable in nature, some investors hold a country-specific view of systematic risk. For them, investments in foreign equities tend to lower the amount of systematic risk in a portfolio because foreign investments are less likely to be affected by domestic market changes.






Home bias is also called country bias or familiarity bias.


   Home Bias vs. Diversification  

Home bias has historically been fuelled by the lack of available options and greater barriers to entering foreign markets.



Mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) now provide a relatively easy and low-cost way to diversify across international investments that may otherwise be more difficult to access on their own. Moreover, an internationally focussed financial media and the free flow of information make owning and monitoring foreign stocks much easier.



Diversification reduces risk by allocating investments among various asset types, geographic regions, and industries. It aims to maximize returns by investing across different areas to lessen the chance that a market event can have a debilitating effect on an entire portfolio.


  Globalization  

Some foreign markets tend to be less closely correlated with domestic performance. For example, an economic downturn in the U.S. economy may not negatively affect the economy in another country too dramatically. Holding equity investments in that country protects investors against losses that arise because of changes in the U.S. economy.



That being said, the economies of different countries are becoming more intertwined because of globalization. As such, a downturn in one economy can impact others. Consider the impact of the subprime meltdown in the U.S. on other economies. A large reason, of course, is that the U.S. economy is the largest in the world and touches most countries. But it is important to pay attention to these factors when investing in foreign equities to determine if true diversification is being achieved.


  Tax Benefits  

Investing in foreign markets can also be tax beneficial depending on the tax laws of the country that is being invested in. Many countries create beneficial tax laws for foreign investors, particularly for investors in developed nations. This is a common practice in emerging markets to attract investment and spur growth.



U.S. investors would still have to pay taxes on their profits earned abroad but may be able to benefit from the foreign tax credit. The foreign tax credit avoids double taxation, which is when the foreign country taxes the investments and so does the U.S. The foreign tax credit can reduce your tax liability on a dollar-for-dollar basis by the lower of the amount taxed in the foreign nation or the U.S. tax liability.
What Is the Home Buyers' Plan (HBP)?  

The Home Buyers’ Plan (HBP) is a Canadian program that allows individuals with registered retirement savings plans (RRSPs) to use up to CAD $35,000 of retirement plan holdings as a loan for a home purchase.



An RRSP is a retirement savings and investing vehicle for employees and the self-employed in Canada. Pre-tax money is placed into an RRSP and grows tax-free until withdrawal, at which time it is taxed at the marginal rate. Registered Retirement Savings Plans have many features in common with 401(k) plans in the United States, but also some key differences.





Key Takeaways

The Home Buyers' Plan (HBP) is a Canadian government incentive program to aid first-time homebuyers using retirement plan savings.To qualify, funds must not exceed the limit and must be withdrawn within 30 days after residing in the home.Funds borrowed from the retirement plan must be repaid over a seventeen-year period (with no mandatory repayments for the first two years of the loan).


   Understanding the Home Buyers' Plan (HBP)  

The Home Buyers’ Plan is open to first-time homebuyers with a written agreement to buy or build a qualifying home for themselves. Individuals with a disability or those helping a relative with a disability also qualify. Canada defines first-time home buyers as those who have not owned and occupied a home over a four-year period beginning on Jan. 1 of the fourth year prior to the withdrawal.



For example, funds withdrawn in June of 2021 would yield an eligibility period beginning Jan. 1, 2017, for purposes of determining whether or not an individual qualifies as a first-time homebuyer. Spouses or common-law partners may qualify singly as long as they have not occupied a home owned in their name or in the name of their current partner or spouse.



To take advantage of the program, homebuyers must withdraw no more than $35,000 and must make all withdrawals within a single calendar year. Homebuyers also must withdraw the funds no later than 30 days after they begin living in the home. After the second anniversary of the withdrawal, homebuyers have 15 years to repay the loan by making deposits back into their RRSP accounts with at least level minimum payments required annually. Required repayment amounts that remain unpaid at the end of a given year become taxed as income.


   Lifelong Learning Plan (LLP)  

In addition to the HBP, Canada offers citizens the opportunity to withdraw tax-free funds from RRSPs to pay for educational expenses via the Lifelong Learning Plan (LLP).



These benefits extend to payments for training or educational expenses for an individual or for a spouse or common-law partner. Individuals may not use LLPs to pay for children’s education, however.


   Using Retirement Funds to Buy a Home in the U.S.  

The U.S. offers a similar program for qualifying first-time homebuyers. Under the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, U.S. citizens may withdraw up to $10,000 from an individual retirement account (IRA) to cover the cost of building or buying a home. While the HBP allows a tax-free loan, the U.S. requires first-time homebuyers to take the withdrawal as income subject to tax if it comes out of a traditional IRA.



In the case of Roth IRAs, which require post-tax contributions, first-time homebuyers do not pay taxes on the withdrawal of their contributions. In either case, the IRS waives the 10% premature withdrawal penalty that would otherwise apply when an individual takes a retirement distribution before the age of 59½.
What Is Home Country Bias?  

Home country bias refers to investors' tendency to favor companies from their own country over those from other countries or regions. The tendency to invest in our own backyard is not unusual or surprising; it is a worldwide phenomenon, and certainly not unique to U.S. investors. This bias is also understandable because we are inclined to recognize and value domestic brands.





Key Takeaways:

Home country bias is the tendency for an investor to prefer companies from their own country or region.Such investors may overweight their exposure to domestic stocks.Investing excessively in domestic stock can create an unbalanced portfolio that has greater risk.Home country bias can also cause an investor to miss out on international investment opportunities.


   Understanding Home Country Bias  

Investors who exhibit home country bias with their investments tend to be optimistic about their domestic markets and are either pessimistic or indifferent toward foreign markets. In fact, some investors likely would continue to invest in a favorite home-country company even if a similar foreign company had demonstrated better upside potential.



Home country bias occurs when people include a large percentage of stock from their own countries in their portfolios. If you look at the average person's asset allocation, you will see that investors (of all sizes) have a strong propensity to overweight their exposure to domestic stocks. The United States, for example, represents less than 50% of the total world market capitalization, yet the average U.S. investor still allocates more than 70% of their portfolio to U.S. equities.



This bias is one reason that building a powerful brand in today's interdependent global market is so important. Coca-Cola, Google, and Toyota, for example, all are well-known international brands, and most people, no matter where they live, are inclined to buy their stocks.






Home country bias can cause an investor to build an unbalanced portfolio that lacks diversification and is subject to unnecessary risk.


   Is Home Country Bias Detrimental?  

Naturally, people take comfort in the familiar. Thus, it follows that investors select companies they know and trust. However, investors who do not recognize this bias in themselves may end up with unbalanced portfolios and ignoring one of the cardinal tenets of investing: diversification.



By not diversifying with international securities, an investor could create weakness in their portfolio if their home country suffers a serious economic decline. Or the investor could simply miss out on foreign investment opportunities. There are significant diversification benefits to a well-constructed international portfolio.


   Special Considerations for Home Country Bias  

As with many investing prejudices, overcoming home country bias requires thoughtful intention and determined discipline. The first step is to recognize it, and the second step is to do something about it. This is particularly difficult if an investor’s home market is the largest equity market in the world and has been singularly rewarding.



However, there are benefits that come with international investing. It is a critical ingredient in wealth-generation strategies for portfolios with long-term investment horizons and can be a fruitful and enlightening adventure.
What Is Home Equity?  

Home equity is the value of a homeowner’s financial interest in their home. In other words, it is the actual property’s current market value less any liens that are attached to that property. 



The amount of equity in a house fluctuates over time as more payments are made on the mortgage and market forces impact the property's current value.



Home equity can represent more than a mortgage loan being paid off. It is an asset that homeowners can borrow against to meet important financial needs such as paying off high-cost debt or paying college tuition.



The interest rate on home equity-based borrowing is typically lower than that on credit cards and personal loans because the funds are secured by the equity. So the equity in your home can be a smart source of funds. Plus, interest on such borrowing is generally tax deductible if funds are used to improve the home.





Key Takeaways


Home equity is the current market value of your home, minus any liens such as a mortgage.
You can leverage your home equity in the form of collateral to tap into cash in the form of a home equity loan or a home equity line of credit.
When you put a down payment on a house of 20% or more, you automatically add to your equity in the home.
A smaller down payment means a larger mortgage and less home equity right off the bat.
The equity in your home may fluctuate for many reasons, including the rise and fall of overall market value in your community.



   How Home Equity Works  

If a portion—or all—of a home is purchased via a mortgage loan, the lending institution has an interest in the home until the loan obligation has been met. Home equity is the portion of a home's current value that the owner possesses at any given time.



Equity in a house is initially acquired with the down payment that you make when you buy the property. After that, a homeowner's equity continues to grow as mortgage payments are made. That's because a specific portion of each payment is assigned to reduce the outstanding principal that you still owe.



Another way equity grows is from the appreciation of your property's value.


  How to Calculate Your Home Equity  

Equity is the difference between what a home is worth and what's owed on a mortgage loan.



To calculate your home equity, first get an estimate of your home's value by taking a look at what homes like yours in your neighborhood have recently sold for. Say that figure is $350,000. In addition, obtain the figure for the balance of your loan from your lender. Again, let's say that's $150,000. With those figures, here's the calculation:



Equity = Value of home - loan balanceEquity = $350,000 - $150,000Equity = $200,000


   Example of Home Equity  

If a homeowner purchases a home for $100,000 with a 20% down payment (covering the remaining $80,000 with a mortgage), the owner has equity of $20,000 in the house.



If the house's market value remains constant over the next two years, and $5,000 of mortgage payments are applied to the principal, the owner would possess $25,000 in home equity at the end of the two years.



If the home's market value had also increased by $100,000 over those two years, and that same $5,000 from mortgage payments were applied to the principal, the owner would then have home equity in the amount of $125,000.






Home equity is an asset and is considered a portion of an individual's net worth. However, it is not a liquid asset.


   How to Borrow Against Home Equity  

Unlike some investments, home equity cannot be quickly converted into cash. That's because the equity calculation is based on a current market value appraisal of your property. That appraisal is no guarantee that the property would sell at that price. 



However, an owner can leverage their home equity as collateral in a variety of ways to secure low-cost funds for their financial needs. Here are some of them.


  Home Equity Loan  

A home equity loan sometimes referred to as a second mortgage, usually allows you to borrow a lump sum against your current home equity for a fixed rate over a fixed period. Many home equity loans are used to finance large expenditures, such as home repairs or college tuition.


  Home Equity Line of Credit  

A home equity line of credit (HELOC) is a revolving line of credit, usually with an adjustable interest rate, which allows you to borrow up to a certain amount over a period of time. HELOCs work like credit cards, where you can continuously borrow up to an approved limit while paying off the balance.


  Fixed-Rate Home Equity Line of Credit  

When a borrower converts any or all of the funds secured through a home equity line of credit to a fixed rate, they have what's called a fixed-rate HELOC. The borrower will then pay off the fixed-rate amount over a specific period of time. Be sure to do your due diligence on this option because lenders may have different rules about how you can use it.


  Cash-Out Refinance  

A cash-out refinance refers to using your equity to get a new mortgage that's larger than the amount owed on your existing mortgage. Then, you pay off the existing mortgage and use the remaining money as needed. As with home equity loans and lines of credit, the funds are tax free because they're viewed as debt by the IRS, not income. The money can be used in any way you choose.






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).


   How to Use Home Equity  

You can use the degree of your home equity and the funds you borrow on it in ways that benefit you financially.



Cancel your private mortgage insurance when your equity reaches 20%. Usually, PMI is automatically canceled once your equity reaches 22%. However, you can request its removal at 20%.
Pay off credit card balances that carry high interest rates. Rates on home equity borrowing are usually much lower.
Pay for bills or needed purchases with home equity funds instead of credit cards or loans to avoid incurring higher-cost debt. For instance, use the funds to pay for college tuition and expenses instead of taking out a student loan. Make needed changes to your home without taking out a higher-rate personal loan.


   How to Increase Your Home Equity  

Once you understand the benefits of home equity, you may want to focus on building it.



Make as large a down payment as possible on the home you're buying to accrue equity instantly.Be aware of the type of mortgage you're getting. For instance, to build your equity consistently, avoid an interest-only loan. Payments for that go toward interest alone. No principal is paid off until a single lump sum is required.Make every mortgage payment and try to pay more than the minimum amount required.Stay in your home to take advantage of any increase in its value. The longer you're in it, the more likely you'll see some appreciation. That adds to your equity stake.Consider making improvements to your home that add value to it. Not all changes a homeowner makes necessarily boost its value, so do your research.


   Pros and Cons of Borrowing on Home Equity  







Pros 
Cons




Obtain needed cash and replace higher-cost payment methods
Can burden owner with added debt and related costs


Lower interest rates than unsecured loans and credit cards
Fees may apply that raise the effective rate


Interest is tax deductible if money is used for capital improvements
Must restrict your use of funds


Borrowed funds are tax free








What Is a Home Equity Loan?
A home equity loan is money that is borrowed against the appraised value of your home. You receive the funds in a lump sum, and you are required to make monthly payments, as with any other type of loan. Basically, a home equity loan is a second mortgage on your house.




How Can I Get a Home Equity Loan?
You can get a home equity loan by contacting a lender who offers these types of loans. The first step is to get a professional appraisal of your home to find out its market value. If you have enough equity in your home to take out this type of loan, a lender will also check your credit and debt-to-income ratio. If you qualify for a home equity loan, your loan funds are usually delivered in a lump sum after the closing. Home equity loans are essentially a second mortgage on your house, with fixed-rate monthly payments.




What Is a Home Equity Line of Credit?
A home equity line of credit (HELOC) is similar to a credit card, acting as a revolving line of credit based on your home's equity. HELOC funds can be used when you need them, paid back, and used again. Often there is a 10-year draw period, where you can access your credit as needed, with interest-only payments. After the draw period, you enter the repayment period, where you must repay all the money you borrowed, plus interest.




How Much Equity Do I Have in My Home?
You gain equity in your home by paying down the principal in your mortgage over time. If you used a down payment to purchase your home, you likely have some equity in it, and with each mortgage payment, your equity grows. To figure out how much equity you have in your home, divide your current mortgage balance by the market or recently appraised value of your home.


   The Bottom Line  

Home equity refers to how much of the value of a home an owner controls compared to that controlled by the lender of the mortgage loan. It consists of any down payment made, the portion of the mortgage payment made that pays down the principal and any appreciation of the value of the home.



The benefit of building equity in your home, beyond ridding yourself of the loan you obtained to buy it, is the ability to borrow money against it.



Homeowners seeking money to meet their financial needs can take out a home equity loan or secure a home equity line of credit. They can also consider a cash-out refinance. Home equity borrowing costs are usually less than those for credit cards or personal loans.



In addition, the funds you obtain through a home equity loan, a home equity line of credit, and a cash-out refinance are tax free because they're borrowed money, not income.
What Is a Home Equity Conversion Mortgage (HECM)?  

A home equity conversion mortgage (HECM) is a type of reverse mortgage that is insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). Home equity conversion mortgages allow seniors to convert the equity in their homes into cash.



The amount that may be borrowed is based on the appraised value of the home (and is subject to FHA limits). Borrowers must also be at least 62 years old. Money is advanced against the value of the equity in the home. Interest accrues on the outstanding loan balance, but no payments must be made until the home is sold, the borrower(s) dies, or the borrower(s) moves out of the property at which point the loan must be repaid entirely.





Key Takeaways


Home equity conversion mortgages (HECMs) are reverse mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA).
HECMs make up the majority of the reverse mortgage market.
HECM terms are often better than those of proprietary reverse mortgages, but the maximum loan amount is limited, and mortgage insurance premiums are required.



   How a Home Equity Conversion Mortgage Works  

Home equity conversion mortgages are a popular type of reverse mortgage; in fact, they make up the bulk of the reverse mortgage market. Generally, reverse mortgage terms can vary with privately sponsored reverse mortgage products—officially known as proprietary reverse mortgages—potentially allowing for higher borrowing amounts with lower costs than HECMs.



HECMs, however, will typically offer lower interest rates for borrowers. The economics of a HECM—versus a privately sponsored reverse mortgage—will depend on the borrower’s age and how long the borrower expects to live in or own the home. Many types of reverse mortgages will exclusively target seniors with no requirements for repayment until the borrower sells their home or dies.



A HECM can also be considered in comparison to a home equity loan. A home equity loan is not dissimilar to a reverse mortgage, since borrowers are issued a cash advance based on the equity value of their home, which acts as collateral. However, with a home equity loan, the funds have to be paid back, usually in steady monthly interest payments shortly after the funds are disbursed.





$1,089,300

The maximum HECM loan limit in 2023, up from $$970,800 in 2022.



While HECM loans do not require borrowers to make monthly payments, certain fees are associated with the closing and servicing of the loan. Borrowers also have to pay mortgage insurance premiums. Although these premiums and fees can be rolled into the loan, this lowers the amount of equity a borrower can tap, referred to as the net principal limit.


   Who Is Eligible for a Home Equity Conversion Mortgage (HECM)?  

The Federal Housing Administration sponsors the home equity conversion mortgage and provides insurance on the products. The FHA also sets the guidelines and eligibility for these loans. Borrowers can only obtain HECMs from banks where the FHA sponsors the product. To obtain a home equity conversion mortgage, a borrower must complete a standard application.



To obtain approval, a borrower must meet all of the requirements set by the FHA. They must:



Be at least 62 years oldOwn the property or have paid down a considerable amountUse the property as their principal residenceNot be delinquent on any federal debtHave the financial capability to continue to make timely payments of ongoing property charges such as property taxes, insurance, homeowner association fees, etc.Participate in a consumer information session provided by a Housing and Urban Development-approved HECM counselor






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).



In addition, the property must be one of the following:



A single-family home or two- to four-unit home with one unit occupied by the borrowerA HUD- or FHA-approved condominiumA manufactured home that meets FHA requirements




What Is the Difference Between a HECM and a Reverse Mortgage?
All HECMs are reverse mortgages, but not all reverse mortgages are HECMs. HECMs are reverse mortgages backed by the FHA and issued by an FHA-approved lender.




Can You Lose Your Home with a HECM?
Yes, you can lose your home several ways with a HECM reverse mortgage. If you fail to keep the property in good repair or pay property taxes and insurance, your HECM balance becomes due. If the property stops being your primary residence for more than 12 consecutive months, the balance becomes due. Even if you leave your home involuntarily because of a lengthy stay in a hospital, nursing home, or assisted living facility, you could lose your home if you can't afford to pay the balance on your reverse mortgage.




Are HECMs Expensive?
Yes, HECMs carry very high origination, mortgage insurance premiums, and maintenance fees.




What Are Good Alternatives to an HECM?
There are several good alternatives to an HECM depending on your situation. If you can qualify for a single-purpose reverse mortgage through a local nonprofit, those are usually much cheaper. If you can downsize your home, you may not need the extra income from a HECM and will then be able to pass on your home to your heirs or leave it to the charity of your choice when you pass.


   The Bottom Line  

A home equity conversion mortgage (HECM) is the most common type of reverse mortgage. It allows older borrowers to tap the equity in their homes without having to pay it back until they pass or move. If borrowers don't need to borrow above the HUD limits for a proprietary reverse mortgage, and they don't qualify for a single-purpose reverse mortgage through a local nonprofit or government entity, then the HECM is their most logical choice.
What Is a Home Equity Loan?  

A home equity loan—also known as an equity loan, home equity installment loan, or second mortgage—is a type of consumer debt. Home equity loans allow homeowners to borrow against the equity in their homes. The loan amount is based on the difference between the home’s current market value and the homeowner’s mortgage balance due. Home equity loans tend to be fixed-rate, while the typical alternative, home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), generally have variable rates.





Key Takeaways

A home equity loan, also known as a home equity installment loan or a second mortgage, is a type of consumer debt.Home equity loans allow homeowners to borrow against the equity in their residence. Home equity loan amounts are based on the difference between a home’s current market value and the homeowner’s mortgage balance due.Home equity loans come in two varieties: fixed-rate loans and home equity lines of credit (HELOCs). Fixed-rate home equity loans provide one lump sum, whereas HELOCs offer borrowers revolving lines of credit.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   How a Home Equity Loan Works  

Essentially, a home equity loan is akin to a mortgage, hence the name second mortgage. The equity in the home serves as collateral for the lender. The amount that a homeowner is allowed to borrow will be based partially on a combined loan-to-value (CLTV) ratio of 80% to 90% of the home’s appraised value. Of course, the amount of the loan and the rate of interest charged also depend on the borrower’s credit score and payment history.






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think that you’ve been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps that you can take. One such step is to file a report with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.



Traditional home equity loans have a set repayment term, just like conventional mortgages. The borrower makes regular, fixed payments covering both principal and interest. As with any mortgage, if the loan is not paid off, the home could be sold to satisfy the remaining debt.



A home equity loan can be a good way to convert the equity you’ve built up in your home into cash, especially if you invest that cash in home renovations that increase the value of your home. However, always remember that you’re putting your home on the line—if real estate values decrease, you could end up owing more than your home is worth.



Should you want to relocate, you might end up losing money on the sale of the home or be unable to move. And if you’re getting the loan to pay off credit card debt, resist the temptation to run up those credit card bills again. Before doing something that puts your house in jeopardy, weigh all of your options.



“If considering a home equity loan for a large amount, be sure to compare rates on multiple loan types. A cash-out refinance may be a better option than a home equity loan, depending on how much you need.”



—Marguerita Cheng, Certified Financial Planner, Blue Ocean Global Wealth






   Special Considerations  

Home equity loans exploded in popularity after the Tax Reform Act of 1986 because they provided a way for consumers to get around one of its main provisions: the elimination of deductions for the interest on most consumer purchases. The act left in place one big exception: interest in the service of residence-based debt. 



However, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 suspended the deduction for interest paid on home equity loans and HELOCs until 2026—unless, according to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), “they are used to buy, build or substantially improve the taxpayer’s home that secures the loan.” For example, the interest on a home equity loan used to consolidate debts or pay for a child’s college expenses is not tax deductible.



As with a mortgage, you can ask for a good faith estimate, but before you do, make your own honest estimate of your finances. “You should have a good sense of where your credit and home value are before applying, in order to save money,” says Casey Fleming, branch manager at Fairway Independent Mortgage Corp. and author of The Loan Guide: How to Get the Best Possible Mortgage. “Especially on the appraisal [of your home], which is a major expense. If your appraisal comes in too low to support the loan, the money is already spent”—and there are no refunds for not qualifying.



Before signing—especially if you’re using the home equity loan for debt consolidation—run the numbers with your bank and make sure that the loan’s monthly payments will indeed be lower than the combined payments of all your current obligations. Even though home equity loans have lower interest rates, your term on the new loan could be longer than that of your existing debts.






The interest on a home equity loan is only tax deductible if the loan is used to buy, build, or substantially improve the home that secures the loan.


   Home Equity Loans vs. HELOCs  

Home equity loans provide a single lump-sum payment to the borrower, which is repaid over a set period of time (generally five to 15 years) at an agreed-upon interest rate. The payment and interest rate remain the same over the lifetime of the loan. The loan must be repaid in full if the home on which it is based is sold.



A HELOC is a revolving line of credit, much like a credit card, that you can draw on as needed, pay back, and then draw on again, for a term determined by the lender. The draw period (five to 10 years) is followed by a repayment period when draws are no longer allowed (10 to 20 years). HELOCs typically have a variable interest rate, but some lenders offer HELOC fixed-rate options.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Home Equity Loan  

There are a number of key benefits to home equity loans, including cost, but there are also drawbacks.


  Advantages  

Home equity loans provide an easy source of cash and can be valuable tools for responsible borrowers. If you have a steady, reliable source of income and know that you will be able to repay the loan, then low-interest rates and possible tax deductions make home equity loans a sensible choice.



Obtaining a home equity loan is quite simple for many consumers because it is a secured debt. The lender runs a credit check and orders an appraisal of your home to determine your creditworthiness and the CLTV.



The interest rate on a home equity loan—although higher than that of a first mortgage—is much lower than that of credit cards and other consumer loans. That helps explain why a primary reason that consumers borrow against the value of their homes via a fixed-rate home equity loan is to pay off credit card balances.



Home equity loans are generally a good choice if you know exactly how much you need to borrow and for what. You’re guaranteed a certain amount, which you receive in full at closing. “Home equity loans are generally preferred for larger, more expensive goals such as remodeling, paying for higher education, or even debt consolidation because the funds are received in one lump sum,” says Richard Airey, senior loan officer with Integrity Mortgage LLC in Portland, Maine.


  Disadvantages  

The main problem with home equity loans is that they can seem an all-too-easy solution for a borrower who may have fallen into a perpetual cycle of spending, borrowing, spending, and sinking deeper into debt. Unfortunately, this scenario is so common that lenders have a term for it: reloading, which is basically the habit of taking out a loan to pay off existing debt and free up additional credit, which the borrower then uses to make additional purchases.



Reloading leads to a spiraling cycle of debt that often convinces borrowers to turn to home equity loans offering an amount worth 125% of the equity in the borrower’s house. This type of loan often comes with higher fees: Because the borrower has taken out more money than the house is worth, the loan is not fully secured by collateral. Also, know that the interest paid on the portion of the loan that is above the value of the home is never tax deductible.



When applying for a home equity loan, there can be some temptation to borrow more than you immediately need because you only get the payout once and don’t know if you’ll qualify for another loan in the future.



If you are contemplating a loan worth more than your home, it might be time for a reality check. Were you unable to live within your means when you owed only 100% of the equity in your home? If so, then it likely will be unrealistic to expect to be better off when you increase your debt by 25%, plus interest and fees. This could become a slippery slope to bankruptcy and foreclosure.












Sabrina Jiang / Investopedia






   Home Equity Loan Requirements  

Each lender has its own requirements, but to get approved for a home equity loan, most borrowers will generally need:



Equity in their home greater than 20% of their home’s value
Verifiable income history for two or more years
A credit score greater than 600



Though it is possible to get approved for a home equity loan without meeting these requirements, expect to pay a much higher interest rate through a lender that specializes in high-risk borrowers.






Determine the current balance of your mortgage and any existing second mortgages, HELOCs, or home equity loans by finding a statement or logging on to your lender’s website. Estimate your home’s current value by comparing it with recent sales in your area or using an estimate from a site like Zillow or Redfin. Be aware that their value estimates are not always accurate, so adjust your estimate as needed considering the current condition of your home. Then divide the current balance of all loans on your property by your current property value estimate to get your current equity percentage in your home.










Average Home Equity Interest Rates




Loan Type
Average Rate
Range


15-year fixed
5.82%
2.99%–9.03%


10-year fixed 
5.60%
2.99%–9.99%


5-year fixed
5.28%
2.50%–9.99%


HELOC
5.61%
3.50%–8.63%






Rates assume a loan amount of $25,000 and a loan-to-value ratio of 80%. HELOC rates assume the interest rate during credit line initiation, after which rates can change based on market conditions.






  Example of a Home Equity Loan  

Say you have an auto loan with a balance of $10,000 at an interest rate of 9% with two years remaining on the term. Consolidating that debt to a home equity loan at a rate of 4% with a term of five years would actually cost you more money if you took all five years to pay off the home equity loan. Also, remember that your home is now collateral for the loan instead of your car. Defaulting could result in its loss, and losing your home would be significantly more catastrophic than surrendering a car.




How does a home equity loan work?
A home equity loan is a loan for a set amount of money, repaid over a set period of time that uses the equity you have in your home as collateral for the loan. If you are unable to pay back the loan, you may lose your home to foreclosure.




Are home equity loans tax deductible?
The interest paid on a home equity loan can be tax deductible if the proceeds from the loan are used to “buy, build or substantially improve” your home. However, with the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the increased standard deduction, itemizing to deduct the interest paid on a home equity loan may not lead to savings for most filers.




How much home equity loan can I get?
For well-qualified borrowers, the limit of a home equity loan is the amount that gets the borrower to a combined loan-to-value (CLTV) of 90% or less. This means that the total of the balances on the mortgage, any existing HELOCs, any existing home equity loans, and the new home equity loan cannot be more than 90% of the appraised value of the home. For example, someone with a home that appraised for $500,000 with an existing mortgage balance of $200,000 could take out a home equity loan for up to $250,000 if they are approved.




Can you have a HELOC and a home equity loan simultaneously?
Yes. You can have both a HELOC and a home equity loan at the same time, provided you have enough equity in your home, as well as the income and credit to get approved for both.




What is a HELOC loan?
A HELOC loan doesn’t exist. The term is a combination of two existing different loan products: A home equity line of credit (HELOC) and a home equity loan.


   The Bottom Line  

A home equity loan can be a better choice financially than a HELOC for those who know exactly how much equity they need to pull out and want the security of a fixed interest rate. Borrowers should take out home equity loans with caution when consolidating debt or financing home repairs. It is easy to end up underwater on a mortgage if too much equity is pulled out, leaving a borrower with ruined credit and a home in foreclosure.
What Is a Home Inspection?  

A home inspection is an examination of the condition and safety of a piece of real estate, often conducted when the home is being sold.



A qualified home inspector will assess the heating and cooling system, water and sewage systems, other plumbing, and electrical work, and look for any potential fire or safety hazards. In addition, the home inspector may check for evidence of insect, water, fire damage, or any other issue that can affect the property's value.





Key Takeaways

A home inspection examines a property's safety and current condition.A buyer typically arranges and pays for a home inspection and—depending on its findings—may choose to move on to closing, renegotiate the sale price, request repairs, or back out of the deal.A home inspection is not the same as a home appraisal, which is required and scheduled by a lender to determine the value of a property for which a buyer is seeking a mortgage.Before buying a home, you should have it inspected. Waiving an inspection may be a risky decision and one that could prove costly later on.


   How a Home Inspection Works  

Potential home buyers often hire home inspectors to visit a property and produce a written report that details its condition, including any necessary or recommended repairs, maintenance concerns, and any other potentially costly or hazardous issues. The home inspector will assess the physical structure of the home, from the foundation to the roof and the home's systems. This assessment will determine whether the home is up to current housing codes.



A home inspection can tell a home buyer a lot about a newly constructed home or an existing one and save them money and aggravation. For sellers, meanwhile, having an inspection done before putting their home on the market can afford them the chance to make any necessary structural repairs or upgrade and replace systems that may help increase the likelihood of a sale.



Typically, a home inspection is done after a sales contract, or purchase agreement between a buyer and a seller has been signed. For this reason, it's important that the contract include an inspection contingency (also known as a "due diligence" contingency), which allows a buyer time to find an inspector, schedule, and attend—if they wish—an inspection, receive the inspector's report, and decide how to proceed based on the information they've obtained.



An inspection report can include everything from material defects that negatively impact a home's value to minor cosmetic issues. Based on the report, the buyer may decide to proceed with the sale, schedule additional inspections, renegotiate the sale price with the homeowner, ask that certain repairs be made and paid for by the seller, or cancel the contract. If the buyer requests major repairs, they may also ask for a re-inspection with the original inspector to verify that the original problem that was identified has been remedied.



Other, more specialized inspections may be conducted for problems such as asbestos, mold or mildew, termites, pests, radon, or lead, or to check sewer lines, chimneys, or other structural components. These may involve additional fees.





Important

When a homeowner's mortgage goes into delinquency, the lender may require the loan servicer to have a home inspection performed on a monthly basis, typically charging the homeowner a fee of $10 to $50 each time. A March 2023 report from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), however, noted that some servicers were charging such fees even if the home inspector went to an address that it knew to be incorrect. That, the CFPB said, represented an unlawful "junk fee."


   Home Inspection vs. Appraisal  

A home inspection focuses on the home's condition and should not be confused with a home appraisal, which is intended to determine the property's current market value. Both are essential steps in a typical home sale but are done for different reasons.



The buyer sets up a home inspection and can then attend it to become educated about the condition and safety of the home and its systems. In contrast, an appraisal performed by a certified or licensed appraiser is required and scheduled by a lender when a buyer applies for a mortgage to purchase a home.



An appraisal can affect the amount that can be borrowed and is typically done behind closed doors without the buyer's presence. The appraiser uses several valuation methods, including comparable home prices, the size and quality of the home, lot size, and more.




Do You Need a Home Inspection?
Because a home inspection can provide a thorough assessment of the home's safety and condition, it is always a good idea to have a one before purchase.




What Happens When a Home Inspector Finds Something Wrong?
If a home inspector finds any unsafe materials, defective systems, or costly cosmetic defects, a buyer can decide not to proceed with the home purchase, renegotiate the sale price, or ask the homeowner to make repairs before the sale goes through.




Is a Home Appraisal the Same as an Inspection?
A home appraisal and a home inspection are two different things, conducted for different purposes and by people with different kinds of expertise. A mortgage lender sets up an appraisal, and the appraiser will use various valuation methods, including the recent sales prices of comparable homes, to assess its value. This helps the lender determine how large a loan it might be willing to offer on the property. A home inspector only evaluates the home's condition for overall safety or potential trouble spots, like a leaking roof, peeling paint, or anything that's not up to the local building code.




What Does a Home Inspection Cost?
The cost of a home inspection can vary by location and by the size and age of the home, among other factors. The real estate website Redfin says that inspections generally cost between $200 and $500, with the average being $336.


   The Bottom Line  

Home inspections are often optional, but relatively inexpensive compared to the overall cost of buying a home. The cost of an inspection can be money well spent, alerting the would-be home buyer to necessary repairs or other potentially expensive problems that they might not have noticed on their own.
What Is the Home Market Effect?  

The home market effect was originally hypothesized by Staffan Linder in 1961 and formalized by Paul Krugman in 1980. The central tenet of the hypothesis is that countries with larger sales of some products at home will tend to have larger sales of those same products abroad.





Key Takeaways

The home market effect says that goods, which have large economies of scale and high transport costs, will tend to be produced in and exported by countries with a large domestic demand.The home market effect is part of New Trade Theory and was developed as an explanation for evidence from global trade patterns that seemed to contradict comparative advantage.Studies have confirmed the occurrence of home market effects and the kind of economic factors that influence them.Businesses and investors should consider possible advantages from home market effects on choosing where to locate.


   Understanding the Home Market Effect  

The home market effect is part of New Trade Theory, which is predicated on economies of scale and network effects, rather than more traditional trade models based on comparative advantage.



The home market effect describes the tendency for large countries to be net exporters of goods with high transport costs and strong economies of scale. It posits that in the presence of fixed costs—which would yield economies of scale when increasing production—it makes sense to concentrate production of a good in a single geographic location.



Furthermore, in the presence of transport costs, it makes sense to locate that production in a location with a high demand for the goods. Because richer countries and/or those with large populations would tend to have a higher demand for products, and because these countries will also have higher gross domestic products (GDPs), the consequence of the home market effect is that it is larger countries that tend to be those with large bases of production.



The home market effect thus explains a link between market size and exports that would not be explained by comparative advantage trade models. It also helps explain why manufacturing activity tends to agglomerate at particular locations, even within countries.



One implication of the model is that countries with large consumption of a particular item will often run a trade surplus in that industry (if economies of scale exist and transport costs are high).Another implication is that rich countries with larger demand for high-quality goods will tend to specialize in those goods and consequently will tend to trade more with other rich countries.A third implication is that goods with weak economies of scale and/or low transport costs will tend to be produced by smaller countries (where lower wages tend to offset the other factors).



Much empirical research has been done on the topic and generally finds that there is evidence of a home market effect. By the mid-20th century, previous models of international trade based on comparative advantage and countries’ endowments of capital and labor were called into question, based on evidence that some capital-rich countries, such as the U.S., mostly exported labor-intensive products.



The home market effect was initially developed as an explanation for this observation. After Krugman formalized the theory of the home market effect, subsequent studies were able to directly test this explanation against real-world data. These studies have found that the home market effects do occur, and the direction of returns to scale (that is, whether returns to scale increase, decrease, or are constant) and how high transport costs are will accentuate or moderate the extent to which home market effects are observed in a particular country or industry.


   Implications for Business and Investment  

The home market effect predicts that production of high-economy-of-scale/high-transport-cost goods can be more efficiently done in geographic locations with high local demand, rather than high comparative advantage. Businesses should take this into account when choosing where to locate their production facilities; the benefits of proximity to large local markets may outweigh other costs associated with the location. Investors should also keep this in mind when considering the current and planned future location of businesses that they may invest in.
What Is a Home Modification?  

A home modification is any alteration made to a home to meet the needs of people who have different physical abilities, often to specifications outlined by the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA). These alternations are made so that disabled or differently-abled people can live independently and safely.



Examples of home modifications include simple measures like removing throw rugs to prevent slips and falls to more permanent fixtures like installing wheelchair-accessible ramps or grab bars in the bathrooms for stability.





Key Takeaways

A home modification is any alteration made to a home to meet the needs of people who have different physical abilities.Examples of home modifications include removing throw rugs to prevent slips and falls or installing grab bars in the bathroom for stability.While in some cases, home modifications might also be considered a home improvement or renovation, home modifications specifically refer to alterations made to a home in order to make it more accessible for people with different physical abilities, including elderly people.


   How a Home Modification Works  

A home modification can refer to a range of changes, alterations, and repairs that make a home more livable for individuals with different physical abilities. The price of home modifications can be as little as a few hundred dollars, although more extensive renovations can cost many thousands of dollars.



For larger projects, some financing options may be available. Some contractors even offer reduced rates and charge sliding-scale fees based on a senior’s income and ability to pay. The National Resource Center on Supportive Housing and Home Modifications is one of the best resources in the U.S.—it offers training, education courses, and technical assistance.



Because of the breadth of the term, some people may think that home modifications include any type of home improvement or home renovation. While in some cases, home modifications might also be considered a home improvement or renovation, home modifications specifically refer to alterations made to a home in order to make it more accessible for people with different physical abilities, including elderly people.






The ADA established standards for accessible design for public accommodations that include creating automatic doorways, ramps, and elevators to accommodate wheelchairs. Water fountains must be made available at heights that individuals with disabilities can reach.


   Home Modifications for the Elderly  

Many homes may not be equipped to house individuals as they age. There are structural barriers that can impinge upon an older individual’s independence, and make it so they are unable to go about their daily routines without assistance. Many older adults live in single-family homes that were built in a time when physical accessibility was not a consideration.



Even now, there are few building requirements concerning physical accessibility in single-family homes. The structural incompatibility can make it impossible for an individual to stay in their own home as they grow older, sometimes forcing them to move into a retirement home. If the individual decides to stay in their home, they may need to hire a caretaker, an ongoing expense many people cannot afford.


   Examples of Home Modifications  

Home modifications range in price and project scope. Some examples of home modifications include re-arranging furniture, widening external pathways, or installing any of the following:



larger digital displays for computerstemperature controlseasy-to-use fixtures for light switches or faucetsgrab bars or railsdoor openerswheelchair ramps or stairliftswalk-in tubs or open, stepless showerslower kitchen and bathroom countertopsnon-slip flooringsecurity systems and emergency alarms.




How Much Are Home Modifications?
Here is the cost range of some common modifications, according to HomeAdvisor:Elevator: $2,500 to $60,000Accessible shower: $975 to $22,000Chairlift: $1,500 to $5,000Lower cabinets and sinks: $1,500 to $8,500Wheelchair ramp: $1,027 to $5,700Wider doorways: $700 to $2,500 per doorwayComfort-height toilet: $100 to $1,600Grab bars: $85 to $300Full kitchen remodel: $13,000 to $38,000Bathroom accessibility updates: $3,000 to $15,000




How Can I Finance My Home Modification?
There are several ways to finance your home modification. One option is a home improvement loan. Also, state and local agencies may be able to offer grants and loans with less-restrictive qualification requirements. If you are a veteran, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs offers several grants to help service members and veterans modify a home for qualifying service-related disabilities. Finally, you can opt for home modification loans and grants from nonprofit groups.




What Is the Home Modification Loan Program?
The Home Modification Loan Program (HMLP) was established by the Massachusetts Legislature in 1999. It provides no-interest loans to modify the homes of adults and children with disabilities. The loan limit is $50,000 for property owners and $30,000 for owners of manufactured or mobile homes.


   The Bottom Line  

Home modification is the alteration of temporary and permanent features in the indoor or immediate outdoor environment of a home. They are intended to provide safety and independence for the elderly and people with disabilities. Home modifications range widely in project scope and price. There are different types of financial assistance to pay for home modifications, including loans, grants, and help from nonprofits.
What Is a Home Mortgage?  

A home mortgage is a loan given by a bank, mortgage company, or other financial institution for the purchase of a residence—a primary residence, a secondary residence, or an investment residence—in contrast to a piece of commercial or industrial property. In a home mortgage, the owner of the property (the borrower) transfers the title to the lender on the condition that the title will be transferred back to the owner once the final loan payment has been made and other terms of the mortgage have been met.



A home mortgage is one of the most common forms of debt, and it is also one of the most recommended. Because they are secured debt—an asset (the residence) acts as backing for the loan—mortgages come with lower interest rates than almost any other kind of loan that an individual consumer can find.





Key Takeaways

A home mortgage is a loan given by a bank, mortgage company, or other financial institution for the purchase of a residence.A home mortgage will have either a fixed or floating interest rate, and a life span of anywhere from three to 30 years.The lender who extends the home mortgage retains the title to the property, which it gives to the borrower when the mortgage is paid off.


   How a Home Mortgage Works  

Home mortgages allow a much broader group of citizens the chance to own real estate, as the entire purchase price of the house doesn’t have to be provided up front. But because the lender actually holds the title for as long as the mortgage is in effect, it has the right to foreclose on the home (seize it from the homeowner, and sell it on the open market) if the borrower can’t make the payments.



A home mortgage will have either a fixed or floating interest rate, which is paid monthly along with a contribution to the principal loan amount. In a fixed-rate mortgage, the interest rate and the periodic payment are generally the same each period. In an adjustable-rate home mortgage, the interest rate and periodic payment vary. Interest rates on adjustable-rate home mortgages are generally lower than fixed-rate home mortgages because the borrower bears the risk of an increase in interest rates.



Either way, the mortgage works the same way: As the homeowner pays down the principal over time, the interest is calculated on a smaller base so that future mortgage payments apply more toward principal reduction than just paying the interest charges.






In a mortgage transaction, the lender is known as the mortgagee and the borrower is known as the mortgagor.


   Types of Mortgages  

There are different types of mortgage loans that a borrower may use to purchase a home. Generally speaking, they can be grouped into three broad categories: conventional loans, Federal Home Administration (FHA) loans, and specialty loans.


  Conventional Loans  

Conventional mortgage loans are not part of a specific government loan program. These loans can be conforming, meaning that they adhere to mortgage rules set by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, or nonconforming. Private mortgage insurance may be required for conventional loans when the borrower puts less than 20% down.






Upfront fees on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac home loans changed in May 2023. Fees were increased for homebuyers with higher credit scores, such as 740 or higher, while they were decreased for homebuyers with lower credit scores, such as those below 640. Another change: Your down payment will influence what your fee is. The higher your down payment, the lower your fees, though it will still depend on your credit score. Fannie Mae provides the Loan-Level Price Adjustments on its website.


  FHA Loans  

FHA loans are mortgage loans issued by private lenders and backed by the federal government. Key characteristics of FHA loans include lower credit score requirements and lower down payment requirements. It’s possible to get approved for an FHA loan with a credit score as low as 580 and a down payment of 3.5% or a credit score as low as 500 and a 10% down payment.


  Specialty Loans  

Specialty mortgage loans are loans that don’t fit into the conventional or FHA loan categories. This includes U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) loans, which are designed for veterans and their families, and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) loans, which allow borrowers in eligible rural areas to purchase homes with no down payment.






The VA loan program and USDA loan program don’t specify minimum credit score requirements, but generally, lenders look for scores of 620 or higher.


   What's Included in a Mortgage Payment?  

A typical mortgage payment can include four costs:



Principal: The principal is the amount that you borrow and have to repay to your lender.
Interest: This is the main cost that you pay to the lender for borrowing money to buy the home.
Mortgage Insurance: Mortgage insurance is designed to protect the lender in the event that you default on the loan. Whether you pay this or not can depend on the type of loan and the size of your down payment.
Property Taxes and Homeowners Insurance: Lenders often roll your property tax payments and homeowners insurance into your mortgage payment. Part of your monthly payment is redirected to an escrow account to pay these expenses.



These costs are separate from upfront fees that you may have to pay to purchase a home. Those include your earnest money, down payment, appraisal and inspection fees, prepaid fees, and closing costs.






If you have to pay homeowners association fees or condo owners association fees, those also may be escrowed into your monthly mortgage payment.


   How to Get a Home Mortgage  

To obtain a mortgage, the person seeking the loan must submit an application and information about their financial history to a lender, which is done to demonstrate that the borrower is capable of repaying the loan. Sometimes, borrowers look to a mortgage broker for help in choosing a lender.



The process has several steps. First, borrowers might seek to get pre-qualified. Getting pre-qualified involves supplying a bank or lender with your overall financial picture, including your debt, income, and assets. The lender reviews everything and gives you an estimate of how much you can expect to borrow. Pre-qualification can be done over the phone or online, and there’s usually no cost involved.



Getting pre-approved is the next step. You must complete an official mortgage application to be pre-approved, and you must supply the lender with all the necessary documentation to perform an extensive check on your financial background and current credit rating. You’ll receive a conditional commitment in writing for an exact loan amount, allowing you to look for a home at or below that price level.






Using an online mortgage calculator can help you estimate your monthly and lifetime costs of buying a home.



After you’ve found a residence that you want, the final step in the process is a loan commitment, which is only issued by a bank when it has approved you as the borrower, as well as the home in question—meaning that the property is appraised at or above the sales price.



When the borrower and the lender have agreed on the terms of the home mortgage, the lender puts a lien on the home as collateral for the loan. This lien gives the lender the right to take possession of the house if the borrower defaults on the repayments.


   Example of Mortgage Terms  

Your mortgage terms are the terms under which you agree to repay the loan to your lender. A typical mortgage term is 30 years, though some mortgage loans may have terms ranging from 10 to 25 years instead. A home equity loan that’s used to draw out your equity, for example, might have a 10-year repayment term.



Mortgage terms also include the interest rate that you pay for the loan. Say you borrow $300,000 to buy a home. You opt for a conventional, 30-year loan. Based on your credit scores and other financial details, your lender offers you a 3.5% interest rate on the loan. You put $60,000 down and pay $200 per month for property taxes and $100 per month for homeowners insurance.



The interest rate and length of repayment determine how much you’ll pay in total for the home. Using this example, you would pay $1,377.71 per month for the loan. Over a period of 30 years, you would pay $147,974.61 in interest, $72,000 in taxes, and $36,000 for insurance for a total cost of $495,974.61. This doesn't include the down payment.




What Is a Mortgage for a House?
A home mortgage is a mortgage loan that’s used to buy a house. The house acts as collateral for the loan. If the buyer defaults on the loan, the lender can initiate foreclosure proceedings to take possession of the property.




Is a Mortgage the Same as a Home Loan?
The terms mortgage and home loan are often used interchangeably, but they don’t exactly mean the same thing. A mortgage is a loan that’s used to buy a piece of property that’s secured by the property itself. A home loan is a type of mortgage that’s used specifically to purchase a house.




What Credit Score do You Need to Buy a House?
The exact answer for what credit score you need to buy a house can depend on the type of loan and the lender’s requirements. For example, it’s possible to get a Federal Housing Administration loan with a credit score as low as 500, but if you’re applying for a conventional loan, the lender might require a credit score of 620 or higher.


   The Bottom Line  

A home mortgage may be the largest loan you ever take out, but it could be a necessity if you would like to buy a house or a rental property. Understanding the different types of mortgage loans, how monthly mortgage payments break down, home loan terms, and how to apply for a loan can make the home-buying process easier.
What Is the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA)?  

The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) is a federal law that requires mortgage lenders to keep records of key pieces of information regarding their lending practices. Lenders must submit these records to regulatory authorities. Established in 1975, the HMDA was implemented by the Federal Reserve through Regulation C. In 2011, the rule-writing authority of Regulation C was transferred to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).





Key Takeaways

The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act is a law passed in 1975 that mandates mortgage lenders maintain certain records.The goal is to create greater transparency and protect borrowers in the residential mortgage market.Data collected under the HMDA allows regulators and others to monitor mortgage borrowing trends and lending for compliance with fair housing and other laws and to direct housing investment and government funding to areas where it is needed.


   Understanding the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA)  

The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act was passed by Congress in 1975 and went into effect under the Fed's Regulation C. It was developed to address concerns and monitor the geographic targets of mortgage lenders by providing a way to identify predatory or discriminatory lending practices, and to report statistics on the mortgage market to the government.



In 1980, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) was given the responsibility of facilitating public access to mortgage information from financial institutions in accordance with the HMDA. Amendments were made to the Act following the passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which included the requirement of additional data points and the transfer of responsibility from the Fed to the CFPB.



The entire Home Mortgage Disclosure Act can be found in Title 12, Chapter 29 of the United States Code. Regulation C is also an important component of the Act. Regulation C was created by the Federal Reserve to overlay the requirements of the Act and designate certain additional requirements that banks must follow.



The HMDA asks lenders to identify the sex, race, and income of those applying for or obtaining mortgages, but the data is anonymized in record keeping. Government agencies, consumer groups, and bank examiners use the data to determine compliance with various federal fair housing and credit laws including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), and state laws.






The HMDA also helps support government-sponsored community investment initiatives by providing a means for analyzing the allocation of resources.


   HMDA Reporting  

In April 2020, the CFPB issued a final rule raising the data-reporting thresholds for collecting and reporting data about closed-end mortgage loans under the HMDA from 25 to 100 loans effective July 1, 2020.



In accordance with the HMDA, lenders must submit the following data:









Reporting Requirements Under HMDA




Applicant Information 
Race, gender, ethnicity, gross annual income 


Loan Information 
Date of application, type of loan, purpose, and amount 


Details on Collateral 
Type of collateral and location 


Status of Loan 
Approved, denied, withdrawn, or incomplete and closed



Consumer Financial Protection Bureau



Lenders must submit a reason why a loan was denied.



Under HMDA and Regulation C, certain mortgage lenders are required to maintain records of specified mortgage lending information for reporting purposes. In 2021, 4,338 lenders reported 15 million loan originations under the HMDA.


  Importance of HMDA Reporting  

HMDA reporting allows regulators to analyze information on mortgage loans and mortgage lending trends in a number of categories, such as the number of pre-approvals made, the number of mortgages granted, loan amounts, and the purposes of individual loans.



The federal reporting also greatly details the approvals of various types of government-sponsored loans including the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), Farm Service Agency, Rural Housing Services, and Veterans Affairs loans.



While these statistics are of natural interest to potential borrowers, they can also be an important research tool for investors researching banking and lending stocks. By comparing the most recent few years' statistics, an investor can easily identify whether or not a lender is growing its core business.






Federal Regulation C requires lenders to prominently display a poster in every branch office lobby that provides information on requesting their unique HMDA statistics. These statistics can also be viewed by the public online for free at the CFPB data repository.




What Is the Purpose of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act?
The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act is a law passed by Congress in 1975. The purpose of the Act is to promote transparency within the mortgage lending market. It also aims to protect consumers from predatory and discriminatory lending practices. This is done through the collection of data from lenders about different types of mortgage loan applications. Lenders must submit their data each year about information on residential mortgage applications, originations, and refinances. This includes information about applicants, collateral details, the types of applications, and the status of each.




How Often Do Lenders Have to Submit HMDA Reports?
Lenders are required to submit information each year in accordance with the HMDA. Information reported must include data about their "applications, originations, and purchases of home purchase loans, home improvement loans, and refinancings." This includes information about applications that were approved, denied, or withdrawn, along with any that were incomplete and closed. Reports for the calendar year must be submitted by March 1 of the following year.




What Is the Regulation Letter for the HMDA?
The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act falls under the Federal Reserve's Regulation C. This regulation requires the annual disclosures of residential mortgage loan data from financial institutions. Data reported includes details about applicants and loan types among others. The data is used by different entities, including regulators and watchdogs, who ensure that lenders are meeting the needs of the communities they serve.


   The Bottom Line  

Many consumers probably aren't familiar with the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. This law was passed and approved by Congress to help bring transparency to the mortgage lending market. The government also enacted the law to help ensure that lenders approve or deny different types of mortgage applications fairly and justly. Data is collected from financial institutions each year and compiled for review. It includes application and applicant details.
What Is a Mortgage Interest Deduction?  

The mortgage interest deduction is a common itemized deduction that allows homeowners to deduct the interest they pay on any loan used to build, purchase, or make improvements upon their residence, from taxable income. The mortgage interest deduction can also be taken on loans for second homes and vacation residences with certain limitations.



The amount of deductible mortgage interest is reported each year by the mortgage company on Form 1098. This deduction is offered as an incentive for homeowners.





Key Takeaways

The mortgage interest deduction helps homeowners lower the amount of tax owed.These deductions are reported on Form 1098 and Schedule A or Schedule E, depending on the type of deduction.The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017 reduced the maximum mortgage principal eligible for the interest deduction to $750,000 (from $1 million).Some homeowners, under legacy clauses, are not subject to the new limits.Many taxpayers forgo claiming the mortgage interest deduction in favor of the larger standard deduction.


   How a Mortgage Interest Deduction Works  

Introduced along with the income tax in 1913, the mortgage interest tax deduction has since become the favorite tax deduction for millions of U.S. homeowners.



Home mortgage interest is reported on Schedule A of the 1040 tax form. The mortgage interest paid on rental properties is also deductible, but this is reported on Schedule E. Home mortgage interest is quite often the single itemized deduction that allows many taxpayers to itemize; without this deduction, the remaining itemized deductions would not exceed the standard deduction. Interest from home equity loans also qualifies as home mortgage interest.



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) passed in 2017 changed the deduction. It reduced the maximum mortgage principal eligible for the deductible interest to $750,000 (from $1 million) for new loans (which means homeowners can deduct the interest paid on up to $750,000 in mortgage debt). However, it also nearly doubled standard deductions, making it unnecessary for many taxpayers to itemize.



As a result, most went on to forgo the use of the mortgage interest tax deduction entirely. For the first year following the implementation of the TCJA, an estimated 135.2 million taxpayers were expected to opt for the standard deduction.



By comparison, in 2022, 18.5 million were expected to itemize, and, of those, 14.2 million would claim the mortgage interest deduction. Roughly 75 million mortgages are outstanding in the United States during the summer of 2022, which suggests that the vast majority of homeowners receive no benefit from the mortgage interest deduction.






Mortgage deductions can also be taken on loans for second homes and vacation residences, but there are limitations.


   Qualifications for a Full Mortgage Interest Deduction  

In 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) limited how much interest homeowners could deduct from taxes. Instead of single or married filing jointly taxpayers deducting mortgage interest on the first $1 million ($500,000 for married filing separately) of their mortgage, they can now only deduct interest on the first $750,000 ($375,000 for married filing separately taxpayers) of their mortgage.



However, some homeowners can deduct the entirety of their mortgage interest paid, as long as they meet certain requirements. The amount allowed for the deduction is reliant upon the date of the mortgage, the amount of the mortgage, and how the proceeds of that mortgage are used.



As long as the homeowner’s mortgage matches the following criteria throughout the year, all mortgage interest can be deducted. Legacy debt, meaning mortgages taken out by a date set by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) qualifies for the deduction.



Mortgages issued before Oct. 13, 1987, have no limits. This means, that taxpayers can deduct any mortgage interest amount from taxes. Mortgages issued between Oct. 13, 1987, and December 16, 2017, and homes sold before April 1, 2018, can deduct mortgage interest on the first $1 million ($500,000 for married filing separately taxpayers) of their mortgage. For the latter, the sales contract must have been executed by Dec. 15, 2017, with a closing conducted before April 1, 2018.






The mortgage interest deduction can only be taken if the homeowner’s mortgage is a secured debt, meaning they have signed a deed of trust, mortgage, or a land contract that makes their ownership in qualified home security for payment of the debt and other stipulations.


   Examples of the Mortgage Interest Deduction  

Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, the mortgage limits for the mortgage interest deduction have decreased. In addition to the mortgage interest deduction change, what can be included as an itemized deduction has changed, disallowing many from claiming what they previously claimed. Despite these changes, the mortgage interest deduction can still prove valuable for some taxpayers.


  When the Mortgage Interest Deduction Is Beneficial  

For example, consider a married couple in the 24% income tax bracket who paid $20,500 in mortgage interest for the previous year. In tax year 2023, they wonder if itemizing deductions would yield a larger tax break than the $27,700 standard deduction. If the total of their itemized deductions exceeds the standard deduction, they will receive a larger tax break.



After totaling their qualified itemized deductions, including the mortgage interest, they arrive at $32,750 that can be deducted. Since this is larger than the standard deduction, it offers a greater benefit: $7,860 ($32,750 x 24%) vs. $6,648 ($27,700 x 24%).


  When the Mortgage Interest Deduction Is Not Beneficial  

A single taxpayer in the same 24% tax bracket also wonders if itemizing taxes would result in a lower tax liability. The taxpayer paid $9,700 in mortgage interest for the previous year and only has $1,500 of deductions that qualify to be itemized. The standard deduction for a single taxpayer for 2023 is $13,850. Because the total itemized deductions ($11,200) is less than the standard deduction, it does not benefit the taxpayer to itemize for the tax year.



Essentially, the homeowner receives no benefit for the paid interest, and the mortgage interest deduction goes unclaimed.




Can You Deduct Both Property Taxes and Mortgage Interest?
Homeowners that itemize taxes and meet the qualification for deducting mortgage interest can deduct property taxes and mortgage interest from their taxes.




Can Co-Owners of a Property Deduct Mortgage Interest?
Co-owners of a property can deduct mortgage interest to the extent that they own the home. For example, if two people own the house equally, each can deduct up to 50% of the mortgage interest from taxes, subject to mortgage interest deduction limits.




Can You Use the Mortgage Interest Deduction After You Refinance Your Home?
The mortgage interest deduction can be taken after refinancing a home if the refinance is on a primary or secondary residence. The mortgage interest can be deducted if the money was used for a capital home improvement—an improvement that increases the value of the home.


   The Bottom Line  

The mortgage interest deduction allows homeowners, who itemize taxes, to claim a tax deduction for interest paid on their mortgage. Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, the limits decreased from $1 million to $750,000, meaning the mortgage interest deduction can now be claimed on the first $750,000 of the mortgage, rather than the first $1 million. However, some homeowners benefit from legacy clauses that exempt them from the new rules.
What Is a Home Office?  

A home office is a space designated in a person's residence for official business purposes. It provides a space for those that are self-employed or work remotely for an employer.



The IRS allows qualified taxpayers to claim a home office on their tax return and deduct certain home expenses when they file taxes.





Key Takeaways

Home offices provide a space to work from home for those that are self-employed or work for an employer.An employee working from a home often can manage their work schedule and employers are often open to time flexibility. To claim the home office deduction, taxpayers must exclusively and regularly use part of their home or a separate structure on their property as their primary place of business.Employees of a company are not eligible to claim the home office deduction.


   How a Home Office Works  

Home offices are set up by people who work from home, whether self-employed or telecommuting for an employer. Essentials within a home office often include a desk, chair, computer or laptop, internet capability, and adequate software like Zoom to connect with co-workers who are also working remotely.



The widely used video conferencing app launched in January 2013, Zoom generated $4 billion in revenue in 2021, a 53% increase in one year following the shuttering of businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic.



The internet and other available resources have increased the opportunity for individuals and small business owners, including consultants, lawyers, accountants, and real estate agents, to work from a home office full time and often benefit from tax deductions.



With rental costs rising, many businesses have become dependent on home office space. Renting and furnishing a professional office space has become costly, especially in large metropolitan areas like New York City, Chicago, and Los Angeles. According to Brookfield Asset Management Inc., rents in New York City in 2022 for “quality” office buildings have climbed more than 30% from pre-pandemic levels.



Before 2020, telecommuting saw a steady rise in popularity for businesses in many industries, and employers increasingly offered this benefit to their workforce with regular telecommuting growing 216% between 2005 and 2019.



Since the COVID-19 pandemic, Americans have changed the way they work. According to a Pew Research survey, one in five say they worked from home all or most of the time before the pandemic, but now 71% of those workers are doing their job from home all or most of the time.


   Advantages of a Home Office  

A home office is beneficial for a number of reasons. By eliminating commute time, someone working from home full-time can save between $600 and $6,000 annually in travel-related and other expenses, including clothing and work attire. 



An employee can manage their own work on her own schedule and employers are often open to time flexibility. All that means a better work-life balance, which can lead to an improvement in an employee's overall health and wellness, resulting in cost savings to employers, whether in dollars or in productivity.  





FORM 8829

This IRS Form is entitled, "Expenses for Business Use of Your Home," and helps determine if a home office qualifies for tax deductions.


   Tax Benefits of a Home Office  

Using a home for business purposes can include benefits such as the home office tax deduction with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The home must be the principal place of business, so even if you do some business activity outside the home, it can still qualify. 



Although employees of companies are not eligible to claim the home office deduction, self-employed, independent contractors, and small business owners operating from home may qualify.



To claim the benefit, the IRS states that only the space used for business is allowed, and must be calculated using the percentage, or square footage, of the home for any deductions. Qualified expenses include rent, mortgage, utilities, and other related expenses.




How Can a Home Office Benefit an Employer?
An employer who allows employees to work remotely from their home office saves costs on rent, utilities, food services, and other operational expenses required to maintain a physical office.




How Is a Home Office Defined by the IRS?
The term "home" for purposes of tax deduction includes a house, apartment, condominium, mobile home, or boat. It also includes structures on the property like an unattached garage, studio, barn, or greenhouse.




What Is the Home Office in Reference to a Corporation?
The term “home office” can refer to the administrative headquarters of a large corporation with locations in different parts of the country or around the world.


   The Bottom Line  

A home office is a designated space in a person's residence used for official business purposes and provides a place to work from home for those that are self-employed or work for an employer. Using a home for business purposes may include benefits such as the home office tax deduction with the Internal Revenue Service.
What Is a Home Office Expense?  

Home office expenses are expenses incurred from the operation of a business or the performance of employment-related activities within a primary residence.





Key Takeaways

Expenses you incur in the operation of a business you conduct in your home are deductible on your federal taxes within certain limits.To calculate your expenses and deductions, you can either tally up all your costs and calculate the percent of your home dedicated to your business or use simplified method to do the same calculation.The rules for deductions changed with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, so make sure to get information on deductions published in 2018 or later.


   Understanding Home Office Expenses  

Home office expenses allow individuals to deduct some housing expenses such as utilities, interest paid towards the property’s mortgage and property taxes on their annual tax return.﻿﻿



The IRS provides the details for the rules on home office deductions in Publication 587.





Home Office Deductions

Expenses incurred by a business you conduct in your home are the basis for home office deductions that can lower your tax bill if you are self-employed.



Any services or utilities that are used exclusively for the business purposes can be fully deducted. This includes offices supplies, phone lines and computer equipment. The amount of deductions permitted will depend on several factors, including how a homeowner files their return and their earnings, but most will be able to claim several items as expenses as long as they are incurred during the normal course of business.﻿﻿



A home office will only qualify for home office deductions if it meets the following criteria:﻿﻿



It is used exclusively and regularly as your principal place of business.It is used exclusively and regularly as a place where you meet or deal with patients, clients, or customers in the normal course of your trade or business.It is a separate structure that is not attached to your home that is used in connection with your trade or business.It is used on a regular basis for certain storage use.It is used as a rental for your business.You use your home as a daycare facility.



The rule of thumb is "exclusive and regular": the place you designate as your home office has to be used exclusively and regularly as a home office. In the words of the IRS, "The space does not need to be marked off by a permanent partition. You do not meet the requirements of the exclusive use test if you use the area in question both for business and for personal purposes."﻿﻿



If you have a corner of your house with a desk that you only use to transact business, that qualifies as a home office space, but if you conduct your business on a laptop while sitting on your couch next to a family member who is watching TV, you cannot claim the couch as a home office.


   How to Calculate Home Office Expenses  

There are two ways the IRS says you can calculate how much of your home constitutes a home office and how much of your incurred expenses are deductible. The first way (the "regular" method) is to calculate your actual expenses. The second way is called the "simplified" method, which is faster but may not yield as many deductions.﻿﻿


  The Regular Method  

The method that uses an accounting of your actual expenses begins with calculating the following:﻿﻿



Which of your business expenses are direct, indirect or unrelated.The percentage of your home used for business purposes.



Direct expenses are things like painting or repairs only in the area used for business. Indirect expenses are expenses for the entire home like Insurance, utilities, and general repairs that also benefit your home office.﻿﻿



To figure out the allowable business percentage of your home area, the IRS gives two methods:﻿﻿



Divide the area (length multiplied by the width) used for business by the total area of your home.If the rooms in your home are all about the same size, you can divide the number of rooms used for business by the total number of rooms in your home.



The regular method requires to keep accurate records, but the IRS has a helpful worksheet to set taxpayers on the right path.﻿﻿





Home Expenses Deductions Limited

If your expenses are less than your gross income from the business conducted in your house, all your expenses are deductible, but if your expenses exceed your gross income only a portion of them can be deducted.


  The Simplified Method  

The simplified method was introduced in 2013 to simplify the calculation of allowable deductions for your home office. To calculate your deductions with the simplified method you need to know:﻿﻿



The allowable area of your home used in conducting the business. If you did not conduct the business for the entire year in the home or the area changed during the year, you will need to know the allowable area you used and the number of days you conducted the business for each month.The gross income from the business use of your home.The amount of your business expenses that are not related to the use of your home.If the qualified business use is for a daycare facility that uses space in your home on a regular (but not exclusive) basis, you also will need to know the percentage of time that part of your home is used for daycare.



Once you have this information you can calculate your deduction with these steps:﻿﻿



Multiply the allowable area by $5 (or less than $5 if the qualified business use is for a daycare that uses space in your home on a regular, but not exclusive, basis).Subtract the expenses from the business that are not related to the use of the home from the gross income related to the business use of the home. If these expenses are greater than the gross income from the business use of the home, then you cannot take a deduction for this business use of the home.Take the smaller of the amounts from (1) and (2). This is the amount you can deduct for this qualified business use of your home using the simplified method.



Other rules apply that limit the filer's ability to use the simplified method. For example, if you share the space with another person you can't both deduct the same space.﻿﻿ Other restrictions are listed in Publication 587.


   Real World Examples of Home Office Expenses  

As an example, consider a freelance writer who operates their own business out of their home. They have a dedicated office space which is approximately 200 square feet, a cell phone that is only used for work-related calls and a subscription to a magazine that provides editorial leads to writers. All these items are tax-deductible as home office expenses, including the 200 square feet of the writer’s house, since that room is used for business purposes.



Additionally, the writer can deduct the ink that they use to print contracts out, the full cost of the all-in-one printer that they had to purchase to be able to send those signed contracts in and any industry-related training they complete.





Real Estate Deductions Are Capped

Because the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act limited the amount of property tax filers can deduct, you cannot use the home office deduction to deduct the full amount of your property tax if it exceeds $10,000.﻿﻿



There are a variety of expenses that can be deducted when a person works out of their home, whether it be as a remote employee or because they are self-employed. A certified tax specialist can review available deductions and make sure that all items that are being claimed are valid.



For instance, if this freelance writer didn’t have a dedicated office space and instead worked out of the coffee shop around the corner from their house every day, they wouldn’t be able to claim the utility and mortgage associated costs as part of their home office deduction. There may be additional deductions available to them, like the coffee and donut they purchase each day while working out of the shop.
What Is a Home Warranty?  

A home warranty is a residential service contract that covers the cost of maintaining household systems or appliances for a set period. A home warranty is different from homeowners' insurance and it is different than a structural warranty, which is used by home builders and buyers and not used for existing homes.





Key Takeaways


A home warranty is a service contract that, for a set period of time, covers the cost of maintaining household systems or appliances.
Home warranties are most often advised when purchasing an older home for which information is not readily available on the items.
These warranties are different from homeowners' insurance.
Homeowners' insurance covers the loss of the home and its contents due to fire or certain other natural disasters.
Home warranty coverage can cost between $432 to $816 a year, and there's a $36 to $68 fee for each item serviced.



   How a Home Warranty Works  

When an appliance or system is damaged, the homeowner contacts the home warranty provider. The warranty company usually works in unison with one or more home service providers, such as plumbing or electrical contractors. After being notified of a claim, the warranty company requests the services from one of its partnered providers, who will assess the damage and subsequently provide a report to the warrantor.


  What Home Warranties Cover  

The assessment report reveals the extent and potential causes of damage to the appliance. The home warranty company confirms if the policyholder’s contract covers the appliance or system for the assessed damage. If approved, the warrantor employs the contractor to repair or replace the system.



A home warranty plan, sometimes called a residential service contract, usually covers major appliances such as water heaters, stoves, and refrigerators. It may also include systems such as HVAC, plumbing, and electrical. It is imperative to read the fine print of a warranty document to understand coverages and exclusions. While some warranties cover garage door openers as part of the basic coverage plan, others may require additional premiums.



Although it is possible to purchase additional coverage for a home feature not available with basic coverage, it is also likely that some warranty companies do not cover specific components of a home. For example, some home warranty companies cover outdoor pools or spas for an additional premium to the policy, whereas other companies may not warranty a pool on their offerings.






A new service fee will apply to each feature or system scheduled for maintenance. For example, if a homeowner’s oven and refrigerator are faulty, they will pay the contractor two separate trade fees. These costs may run between $55 to $150.


   Home Warranty vs. Home Insurance  

While a home warranty bears a resemblance to home insurance policies in terms of premiums, deductibles, claims, and liabilities, they each offer different services. Home warranties maintain the functionality of household systems, which can break or wear out. Home insurance, on the other hand, covers damage to or loss of the home itself that may be due to fire or certain other natural disasters.



When purchasing a home, the buyer may not know how well the previous owners maintained and managed the components of the home. Information on the age of household appliances or their useful life in years may not be available at the time of purchase.



Also, the search for an expert handyman or service provider may be time-consuming for the homeowner. Limited time and the high costs of paying for damage or replacing multiple components of the home are two main reasons that homebuyers purchase home warranties.


   Home Warranty Qualifications  

Home warranty providers may deny coverage for several reasons. Known damage existing before the start of warranty coverage may mean a denial of the claim. For this reason, if a home inspection conducted before purchase reveals damage to some systems or appliances, the prospective buyer should ask the seller to repair or replace the item before finalizing the sale. Also, a warranty company will not cover poorly maintained, improperly installed, or misused household components.



Homebuilders, sellers, and homeowners may purchase a home warranty. Some home builders offer policies that cover the structure up to 10 years for structural defects, including issues with flooring, walls, roofs, framing, sheetrock, and other items. Homebuilder warranties may also cover two years of electrical and plumbing systems and six months for installed household appliances. The cost of a homebuilder warranty policy is usually part of the price of the new house.



The seller or agent may pay for the warranty to incentivize a buyer to purchase the home for older homes. Warranties for existing homes typically cover a year of household systems and appliance maintenance. After a year, the homeowner has the option to renew the contract.


   Home Warranty Costs  

The average cost for a home warranty basic coverage ranges between $432 to $816 annually, depending on what the products are, and which ones are added to the policy. In addition to the annual premium, homeowners will usually pay the servicing contractor a fee, often called a “service call fee” or a “trade call fee.” The contractor fee is synonymous with an insurance deductible.  The costs of these fees depend on various factors. The fee can range between $55 and $150. Most policies include the clause that if a repair or replacement cost is less than the fee, the homeowner pays the lesser amount.



Finally, if repair or replacement costs more than the home warranty contract limit, the homeowner must cover the excess. Homeowners should analyze the offerings of home warranty companies to understand which out-of-pocket expenses they would be liable for in the event of a claim and whether a home warranty is worth it.




Is a Home Warranty for My Home?
No. A home warranty isn't a warranty on your house, but covers the appliances in your home, such as a refrigerator.




Do I Have to Buy a Warranty for My Home?
Unlike homeowners insurance, you do not have to purchase a warranty on appliances in your home. However, if you purchase an older home where appliances are dated, you may want to consider replacing them or purchasing a home warranty policy .




What Is a Residential Service Contract?
A residential service contract is another name for a home warranty, which protects your homes systems and appliances if they break during the period that is protected by the warranty.
What Are Homemade Dividends?  

Homemade dividends are a form of investment income generated from the sale of a portion of an individual's investment portfolio. These assets differ from the traditional dividends that a company’s board of directors distributes to certain classes of shareholders.





Key Takeaways

Homemade dividends signify a category of investment income that results from the partial sale of an investor's portfolio. Homemade dividends are unlike the traditional dividends that a company’s board of directors issues to shareholders.The ability of investors to mine homemade dividends has triggered a debate as to whether traditional dividends offer substantial value. 


   Understanding Homemade Dividends  

The ability of investors to create their own homemade dividends has provoked questions about whether traditional dividends offer real value. Some investment experts argue that since a stock price will decrease by exactly the amount of the dividend on its ex-dividend date, it neutralizes any financial gains.



This idea sits at the crux of the dividend irrelevance theory, which claims that investors fundamentally do not need to pay heed to a company's dividend payment policy, since they retain the option of selling off portions of their equity portfolios, should they ever need to generate cash. Naysayers of this theory counter-argue that when an investor sells a portion of their portfolio, they end up with fewer shares, which consequently results in a depleted asset base, despite any short-term monetary gains they may enjoy.






Economists Merton Miller and Franco Modigliani were among the first voices to espouse the irrelevance of corporate dividends when they publicized their theories in the early 1960s.


   Traditional Dividends  

As noted, a company’s board of directors is charged with the responsibility of declaring dividend payouts to shareholders. Following the declaration date, the company establishes a record date to determine which shareholders are eligible to receive distributions. The ex-dividend date, which occurs precisely two business days before the record date, denotes the final day a seller is still entitled to collect dividends, even if they have already sold their shares to a buyer.



Normal dividends typically occur on a regular monthly or quarterly basis, while extra or special dividends are one-time distributions. Generally speaking, a company's board declares special dividends after witnessing exceptionally strong earnings results or when a company seeks either to materially change its financial structure or to spin off a subsidiary company.



Companies with sector exposure to basic materials, oil and gas, financials, healthcare, pharmaceuticals, and utility concerns historically produce the highest dividend yields. Furthermore, companies structured as master limited partnerships (MLPs) or real estate investment trusts (REITs) are also top dividend payers, because these companies are typically mature and they exhibit stable cash flows.



In contrast, start-ups and other high-growth companies, such as many technology plays, seldom offer high dividends. These companies usually prefer to reinvest any earnings they make into research and development or to the expansion of operations.
What Is Homemade Leverage?  

Homemade leverage is used by an individual investor to artificially adjust the leverage of a company. An individual investing in a company with no leverage can recreate the effect of leverage using homemade leverage, which includes taking out personal loans on the investment. However, differences in the tax rate between the corporation and the individual will likely disrupt the ability of the investor to construct the leveraging scenario accurately. 





Key Takeaways

Individuals can use homemade leverage to recreate the effects of corporate leverage. The tax rate difference between corporations and individuals make replicating corporate leverage difficult, however. The Modigliani-Miller theorem states that a company’s capital structure should not affect its stock price because investors can use homemade leverage. 


   How Homemade Leverage Works  

The use of leverage increases the potential for returns while increasing the riskiness of an investment. Companies that utilize leverage may be able to generate a more substantial return for shareholders, all else equal, than a company that does not employ leverage. However, investment in leveraged companies may be riskier than investment in companies that do not borrow. 



A way to attempt to get around this risk/reward tradeoff is for an investor to buy shares of a company that does not utilize leverage and then takes out personal loans to gain personal leverage. Theoretically, if the person can borrow at the same rate as the company, the investor can earn a rate of return closer to a leveraged company return while being invested in a non-leveraged company.



The goal of the investor is to replicate the return compounding effects of corporate leverage synthetically but while being invested in a non-leveraged firm.  Theoretically, an investor may be able to come close to this goal if they can borrow at the same rate the company is able to borrow. 


   Special Considerations   

The principle behind homemade leverage, described by the Modigliani-Miller theorem, is that investors do not care about capital structure, because they can undo any changes with their own homemade leverage. Thus, the capital structure of a company should not affect the stock price. 



The Modigliani-Miller theorem says that investors have no regard for how a company finances its investments (debt versus equity) or pays its dividends. That’s because investors can mirror leverage in their own personal portfolio. However, the theorem also assumes that this holds true only if taxes and bankruptcy costs are absent and the market is efficient. 


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Homemade Leverage  

Homemade leverage is meant to allow an investor to invest in an unlevered company to replicate the return of a levered firm. Taxes, however, make creating the exact leverage effect difficult, as the cost of corporate leverage and the cost of individual leverage differ. 



Homemade leverage does, however, allow an investor to undo changes to a company’s capital structure that they do not agree with. For example, if a company that an investor owns shares in decides to raise capital via debt. A company can adjust their personal portfolio leverage to maintain the desired leverage.
What Is a Homeowner Association (HOA)?  

A homeowner association (HOA) is an organization in a subdivision, planned community, or condominium building that makes and enforces rules for the properties and residents. Those who purchase property within an HOA's jurisdiction automatically become members and are required to pay dues, which are known as HOA fees. Some associations can be very restrictive about what members can do with their properties while others may give residents more freedom.





Key Takeaways

A homeowner association is an organization that makes and enforces rules and guidelines for a subdivision, planned community, or condominium building.HOA members are the residents of the subdivision, community, or building.Some communities require mandatory membership for individuals that purchase property in the zone.Homeowner associations are run by a board of directors and typically collect monthly or annual fees to pay for common area maintenance and the upkeep of facilities.Homeowner associations may impose fines on non-compliant homeowners.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   How Homeowner Associations (HOAs) Work  

Homeowner associations are usually formed within communities or neighborhoods of single-family homes or multiple-unit buildings, such as townhomes or condominiums. An HOA is typically established to make and enforce rules regarding the properties within the jurisdiction. Associations are comprised of and run by the community's residents. Membership is usually a requirement to buy a home within a community where an HOA has been established.



An HOA usually has a board of directors or governors. These groups are elected to enforce and oversee the HOA's rules and regulations. An HOA typically describes its rules as restrictive covenants in a document called a Declaration of Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions. CC&Rs set certain conditions for owners about the maintenance of their properties.



These conditions sometimes include structural restrictions, such as the type of fences or landscape allowed. But they may also include more minor aesthetic choices like the color of paint on a house. A CC&R document may also outline the penalties for violating the guidelines set forth in the agreement. These penalties can take the shape of fees or forced compliance. In some cases, it may even be as drastic as litigation.






   Homeowner Association (HOA) Fees  

Some HOAs can wield significant financial and legal power over the property owners in their zone. HOAs collect monthly or annual HOA fees. These fees depend on a number of factors, including:



Type of propertyNumber of properties in the groupLocationAmenities offeredOperating expenses



The fees are typically between $200 to $400 per month, but they can range anywhere from less than $100 to upwards of $10,000 in luxury neighborhoods or communities.



HOA fees also often contribute to the association's reserve fund, which is set aside for major renovation projects or emergency use. In addition to regular fees, HOAs can also impose special assessments on homeowners when the association lacks sufficient reserves to pay for unexpected repairs on common areas, such as sidewalks or parking lots.



The HOA's board is usually responsible for the organization's finances. As such, it oversees the collection and management of funds. Along with setting dues and assessments, the board can slap fines on homeowners who break the rules or damage the common areas. In addition to imposing penalties, HOAs can also place a lien on a property if a homeowner falls seriously behind on their dues.






Existing HOA liens can make it difficult to sell the home unless they are cleared.


   Homeowner Associations (HOAs) vs. Community Associations vs. Property Owner Associations  

Most HOAs are incorporated. This means they are subject to state laws. However, some states consider condominium-based HOAs (often called condominium communities) and organizations governing cooperatives (called co-op boards) to be distinct entities from HOAs.



This distinction is made on the assumption that the property interests of these organizations differ. As a result, the designation community association serves as a broader, umbrella term that encompasses HOAs, condominium communities, and co-op boards.



However, an HOA is distinct from a property owners' association. This organization is a more broad term that usually refers to a group of people who want to better their community and the real estate values of the property in their community. The main difference between them and HOAs is that property owners' associations may include anyone in the community with an interest in the value of the community's real estate, including individuals who aren't homeowners.





358,000

The number of HOAs in the U.S. as of 2021, according to the Foundation for Community Association Research. A trade organization/lobbying group, the foundation estimates that 74.2 million Americans reside in a community association neighborhood or property.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Homeowner Associations (HOAs)  
  Advantages  

The HOA provides regulations and guidelines for its members. These standards are upheld with the aim of preserving and enhancing the community's property values. The guidelines are often appearance-oriented, so they deal with regulations for the cleanliness of the property, the condition of the property, and any repairs done to the property. Usually, the guidelines for HOAs are designed to help ensure a uniform appearance for all the properties included in the association's zone.



The HOA management will typically provide additional services for its members in exchange for their HOA fees. These amenities are available for all HOA members and may include:



LandscapingParking lotsSwimming poolsTennis courtsParty spacesSnow removal



Some HOA fees may also cover the cost of trash collection and certain utilities.



On a more theoretical level, HOAs are symbolic of self-governance and democracy for certain individuals. This belief may stem from the idea that the best people to manage a community are the people living in it as opposed to a landlord who doesn't live on the premises.


  Disadvantages  

One disadvantage of an HOA is the high cost of the association fees, which could act as a deterrent for some prospective buyers. Also, the HOA rules and regulations can seem unreasonable, arbitrary, or too restrictive for some homeowners, who may want the freedom to customize their properties.



HOA board members are normally volunteers, and they may not be properly trained to manage real estate, deal with complex financial issues, or unite a disparate group of people for a common cause. Because the leadership of HOAs must reach a consensus when they are making decisions about maintenance and upgrades, it is also possible that there may be conflicts among HOA members who disagree.





Pros

Set and enforce community rules
Protect property values
Provide services, amenities, and facilities
Offer self-governance



Cons

Impose fees, dues, and assessments
Maintain restrictive regulations
Operate inefficiently
May be run amateurishly or ineptly





   Example of a Homeowner Association (HOA)  

Individual homeowners may conflict with their HOAs. One thorny issue, in particular, relates to the installation of solar panels. HOA boards often don't like them, fearing they hurt property values. In 23 states, they're allowed to forbid homeowners from adding them to their residences.



In 2020, an electrical engineer residing in Blaine, Minnesota, applied for permission to add solar panels to his house. In October of that year. The HOA rejected his proposal, citing aesthetic concerns (the panels were too visible from the street) and the lack of established guidelines for rooftop solar in the association’s bylaws.



The electrical engineer joined a group of homeowners and solar advocates who are asking Minnesota lawmakers to support a bill that would allow homeowners associations to regulate but not ban the installation of solar thermal panels on single-family homes. Introduced in the Minnesota House of Representatives in early 2021, it's one of a series of similar bills proposed since 2014 but never passed.




What Does a Homeowner Association Cover?
A homeowner association is an organization tasked with governing the affairs of a real estate development owned by multiple parties, such as an apartment building. HOAs are responsible for tasks such as ensuring building maintenance, deciding on whether to pursue larger renovation projects, and drafting/enforcing the building’s bylaws.In order to fund its operations, HOAs charge their members monthly HOA fees, typically in the range of $200 to $400 per month. They also have the authority to enforce the community’s bylaws, such as by imposing fines on residents who refuse to comply.




What Are the Pros and Cons of Belonging to an HOA?
HOAs can benefit individual owners by providing necessary management services. For example, without an HOA the owners of an apartment building would need to coordinate among themselves to decide on common problems such as building-wide garbage removal, building repairs, and community policies. This could be very time-consuming for residents and could result in conflicts and disagreements between owners. On the other hand, HOAs can also create problems for owners to the extent that the owner disagrees with the HOA’s community bylaws or spending decisions.




What Legal Powers Does an HOA Have?
Individual HOAs have different levels of legal powers, depending on how they were designed. However, HOAs generally have the legal authority to create and enforce community policies, such as whether to allow smoking, pets, or rentals in the building. HOAs also decide on budgets for the building and have the authority to charge monthly or one-time fees to their members. If a member refuses to pay these fees or to comply with the community policies, HOAs can impose a range of penalties. In many cases, these penalties can include monetary fines, the restriction of community privileges, and even litigation.


   The Bottom Line  

Owning a home comes with many rights and responsibilities. But if you own a townhome or condo or are part of a specific community, you may be part of a homeowner association. Being part of these communities can be beneficial because they often take care of some of the nitty-gritty of homeownership, such as property maintenance, utilities, landscaping, and snow removal. But keep in mind, though, that these organizations can be restrictive by setting boundaries on what you can and can't do with your property—all for a fee.
What Is a Homeowners Association (HOA) Fee?  

The term “homeowners association (HOA) fee” refers to an amount of money that must be paid by certain types of residential property owners every month to their homeowners associations (HOAs). These fees are collected to assist the association with maintaining and improving properties.



HOA fees are almost always levied on condominium owners, but they may also apply in some neighborhoods of single-family homes. HOA fees may also go by the term “common charges” or “maintenance charges.”





Key Takeaways

Homeowners association fees are monthly dues collected by homeowners associations (HOAs) from property owners.HOA fees are standard for most purchased condominiums, apartments, and planned communities.Some neighborhoods that consist of single-family homes also have HOA fees.HOA fees are used to pay for amenities, property maintenance, and repairs. Fees depend on the type of property and services provided, and they generally range from $200 to $300.


   Understanding Homeowners Association (HOA) Fees  

Homeowners associations are organizations that are designed to set up and enforce rules for certain properties and the residents who live in them. These groups are typically created in planned communities, subdivisions, or condo buildings. People who purchase these properties automatically become members of the association. As such, they are required to pay their dues through monthly fees, which are called homeowners association fees.



HOA fees paid by condo owners usually cover the costs of maintaining the building’s common areas, such as: 



LobbiesPatiosLandscapingSwimming poolsElevators



Fees may also cover some common utilities, such as water/sewer fees and garbage disposal. The association may also levy special assessments from time to time if its reserve funds (funds set aside for major and/or emergency repairs) are not sufficient to cover a major repair, such as a new elevator or roof.



These fees can also apply to single-family houses—especially town houses—in certain neighborhoods, particularly if there are common amenities like tennis courts, a community clubhouse, or neighborhood parks to maintain.



HOA fees tend to vary drastically, depending on the property or community. The fees range anywhere from $100 to $1,000 per month. The average, though, tends to be from $200 to $300 per month. The general rule that applies is the more services and amenities, the higher the fees.






Some homeowners associations can be very restrictive about what members can do with their properties. These rules are written in the homeowner’s agreement.


   Special Considerations  

If a member fails to remit payment to the HOA, it affects the other members of the community. Common areas may suffer due to lack of funds, or other members may be assessed special fees to cover maintenance costs or other expenses.



The HOA has the authority to take action against delinquent homeowners. The actions depend on the contract between the HOA and the homeowner. Some contracts dictate that the HOA can charge late fees to the homeowner, while others allow the HOA to initiate a lawsuit, place a lien on the property, or foreclose on the owner’s property to collect the delinquent payments.






Some associations may assess both condo fees and HOA fees, so it’s a good idea to find out how much you’ll be responsible to pay before you purchase a property.


   Criticism of HOA Fees  

The main problem that people have with HOA fees is the cost. As mentioned above, they can range from a few hundred to a few thousand dollars each month. This is, of course, based on the type of property and the amenities involved. Paying monthly fees on top of mortgage payments and other costs, such as utilities, can put financial pressure on property owners.



Owners may even face higher fees if the reserve fund isn’t properly managed. Remember, these are funds that are set aside for unexpected and/or major repairs to the property. And the HOA’s board and/or management have a fiduciary duty to make sure that their reserve funds are maintained and managed properly.



HOAs also create rules related to parking or the use of common areas. In neighborhoods with single-family homes, the HOA may create rules on how often members can paint their houses, which types of fences they may have, how they must maintain their landscaping, and any other related issues. This can often ruffle feathers and create legal hurdles for both the associations and homeowners.




What do homeowners association (HOA) fees normally cover?
HOA fees typically cover the costs of maintaining common areas, such as lobbies, patios, landscaping, swimming pools, tennis courts, a community clubhouse, and elevators. In many cases, the fees cover some common utilities, such as water/sewer fees and garbage disposal. The association may also levy special assessments from time to time if its reserve funds are not sufficient to cover a major repair, such as a new elevator or new roof.




What is the average range for HOA fees?
HOA fees vary drastically, but some estimates claim these fees range from $100 to $1,000 per month, with the average ranging from $200 to $300. The amount of an HOA fee varies based on the type of property and the amenities it provides—the more services and amenities, the higher the fees. In some cases, owners face higher fees when an association’s reserve fund isn’t managed correctly.




What happens if someone doesn’t pay their HOA fees?
Property owners who don’t pay their monthly or annual fees, as well as any special assessments, may face action by the HOA. These actions depend on the contract between the HOA and the homeowner. Some allow the HOA to charge late fees, while others allow them to initiate a lawsuit, place a lien on the property, or foreclose on the owner’s property to collect the delinquent payments.




Why are HOA fees higher in some areas?
Since HOA fees pay for the amenities and maintenance in a community, those prices will vary from place to place. In high-cost-of-living cities like New York City, even basic maintenance will be more expensive than in low-cost-of-living cities because of higher minimum wages, power costs, and/or taxes. HOA fees may also be higher in condominiums than they are in single-family houses since the fees will pay for electricity, heating, cooling, etc. in common areas. In a recent survey, New York City was listed as the second highest median HOA cost in the nation behind Honolulu, with monthly fees of $410. On the other end of the spectrum, Harrisburg-Carlisle, Pa., had a median of $120.


   The Bottom Line  

HOA fees are charges levied on owners of many condominiums, co-ops, and certain neighborhoods. These fees cover the maintenance and upkeep of common areas such as shared hallways, elevators, lobbies, and parking lots. It will also usually cover snowplowing, gardening, and damage to common areas. Owners of condos should be aware of HOA fees when computing their monthly expenses.
What Is Homeowners Insurance?  

Homeowners insurance is a form of property insurance that covers losses and damages to an individual's residence, along with furnishings and other assets in the home. Homeowners insurance also provides liability coverage against accidents in the home or on the property.





Key Takeaways


Homeowners insurance is a form of property insurance that covers losses and damages to an individual's house and assets in the home. 
The policy usually covers interior damage, exterior damage, loss or damage of personal assets, and injury that arises while on the property.
Every homeowners insurance policy has a liability limit, which determines the amount of coverage the insured has should an unfortunate incident occur.
Homeowners insurance should not be confused with a home warranty or with mortgage insurance. 



   Understanding Homeowners Insurance  

A homeowners insurance policy usually covers four kinds of incidents on the insured property: interior damage, exterior damage, loss or damage of personal assets/belongings, and injury that occurs while on the property. When a claim is made on any of these incidents, the homeowner will be required to pay a deductible, which in effect is the out-of-pocket costs for the insured.



For example, say a claim is made to an insurer for interior water damage that has occurred in a home. The cost to bring the property back to livable conditions is estimated by a claims adjuster to be $10,000. If the claim is approved, the homeowner is informed of the amount of their deductible, say $4,000, according to the policy agreement entered into. The insurance company will issue a payment of the excess cost, in this case, $6,000. The higher the deductible on an insurance contract, the lower the monthly or annual premium on a homeowners insurance policy.



Every homeowners insurance policy has a liability limit, which determines the amount of coverage the insured has should an unfortunate incident occur. The standard limits are usually set at $100,000, but the policyholder can opt for a higher limit. In the event that a claim is made, the liability limit stipulates the percentage of the coverage amount that would go toward replacing or repairing damage to the property structures, personal belongings, and costs to live somewhere else while the property is worked on.



Acts of war or acts of God such as earthquakes or floods are typically excluded from standard homeowners insurance policies. A homeowner who lives in an area prone to these natural disasters may need to get special coverage to insure their property from floods or earthquakes. However, most basic homeowners insurance policies cover events like hurricanes and tornadoes.


   Homeowners Insurance and Mortgages  

When applying for a mortgage, the homeowner usually is required to provide proof of insurance on the property before the financial institution will loan any funds. The property insurance can be acquired separately or by the lending bank. Homeowners who prefer to get their own insurance policy can compare multiple offers and pick the plan that works best for their needs. If the homeowner does not have their property covered from loss or damages, the bank may obtain one for them at an extra cost.



Payments made toward a homeowners insurance policy are usually included in the monthly payments of the homeowner's mortgage. The lending bank that receives the payment allocates the portion for insurance coverage to an escrow account. Once the insurance bill comes due, the amount owed is settled from this escrow account.


   Homeowners Insurance vs. Home Warranty  

While the terms sound similar, homeowners insurance is different from a home warranty. A home warranty is a contract taken out that provides for repairs or replacements of home systems and appliances such as ovens, water heaters, washers/dryers, and pools. These contracts usually expire after a certain time period, usually 12 months, and are not mandatory for a homeowner to buy in order to qualify for a mortgage. A home warranty covers issues and problems that result from poor maintenance or inevitable wear-and-tear on items—situations in which homeowners insurance doesn't apply.


   Homeowners Insurance vs. Mortgage Insurance  

A homeowners insurance policy also differs from mortgage insurance. Mortgage insurance is typically required by the bank or mortgage company for homebuyers making a down payment of less than 20% of the cost of the property. The Federal Home Administration also requires it of those taking out an FHA loan. It's an extra fee that can be figured into the regular mortgage payments, or be a lump sum charged when the mortgage is issued.



Mortgage insurance covers the lender for taking on the extra risk of a home buyer who doesn't meet the usual mortgage requirements. If the buyer should default on payments, the mortgage insurance would compensate. Basically, while both deal with residences, homeowners insurance protects the homeowner and mortgage insurance protects the mortgage lender.
What Is the Homeowners Protection Act?  

The Homeowners Protection Act of 1998 is a law designed to reduce the unnecessary payment of private mortgage insurance (PMI) by homeowners who may no longer be required to pay it. The Homeowners Protection Act covers all private, residential mortgages purchased after July 29, 1999. The act, also known as the PMI Cancellation Act, mandates that lenders disclose certain information about PMI.



The law also stipulates that PMI must be automatically terminated for homeowners who accumulate the required amount of equity in their homes (and thus, are no longer required to have purchased PMI).





Key Takeaways

The Homeowners Protection Act of 1998, also sometimes referred to as the Private Mortgage Insurance (PMI) Cancellation Act, is a law designed to reduce the unnecessary payment of private mortgage insurance by homeowners who may no longer be required to pay it.Private mortgage insurance can be removed once a borrower pays down enough of the mortgage's principal (usually when their equity reaches 20%) or when their loan-to-value (LTV) ratio reaches 80%.However, before the Homeowners Protection Act, many homeowners had problems canceling their private mortgage insurance.According to the Homeowners Protection Act, private mortgage insurance must be automatically terminated for homeowners who accumulate the required amount of equity in their homes; the act also mandates certain disclosures about private mortgage insurance and simplifies the cancellation process, among other provisions.


   Understanding the Homeowners Protection Act  

Most lenders require a down payment that is equal to approximately 20% of the home's purchase price. This standard is meant to ensure that the borrower has enough financial interest in the property to continue making payments, and—in the event that the borrower is unable to make mortgage payments—that the lender has sufficient equity available to cover lender foreclosure costs.



If a borrower can't—or chooses not to—come up with that amount, a lender may decide that the loan is a risky investment, and, as a result, require that the homebuyer take out PMI. In the event that a borrower defaults on their mortgage—and their home goes into foreclosure—the purpose of PMI is to provide extra protection for the lender.






The Homeowners Protection Act does not apply to Veterans Affairs (VA) or Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loans.



An additional reason that a homeowner may be required to purchase PMI coverage is if the mortgage the homeowner seeks has a high loan-to-value (LTV) ratio.



LTV is one of the measures of risk that lenders use in underwriting a mortgage. LTV divides the amount of the loan by the value of the home. Most mortgages with an LTV ratio greater than 80% require that the borrower have PMI because they are considered more likely to default on the mortgage.



With PMI, homeowners are responsible for purchasing insurance coverage for their mortgage and for paying insurance premiums. These premiums may either be added to the borrower's monthly mortgage payments, or the additional cost may be absorbed by the borrower’s interest rate (resulting in a higher interest rate).



PMI can be removed once a borrower pays down enough of the mortgage's principal (usually when their equity reaches 20%) or when their LTV ratio reaches 80%. However, before the Homeowners Protection Act, many homeowners had problems canceling PMI. In some instances, lenders may have agreed to terminate coverage when the borrower’s equity reached 20%, but policies for canceling PMI coverage varied widely among lenders, and homeowners had limited recourse if lenders refused to cancel PMI.



The Homeowners Protection Act protects homeowners by prohibiting life-of-loan PMI coverage for borrower-paid PMI products and establishing uniform procedures for canceling PMI coverage. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) supervises and enforces compliance with the Homeowners Protection Act.
What Is the Homestead Exemption?  

The homestead exemption is a way to minimize property taxes for homeowners. It is also a legal provision offered in most states that helps shield a home from some creditors following the death of a homeowner's spouse or the declaration of bankruptcy. The homestead tax exemption can provide surviving spouses with ongoing property tax relief, which is done on a graduated scale so that homes with lower assessed values benefit the most.



The homestead exemption is helpful since it is designed to provide both physical shelter and financial protection, which can block the forced sale of a primary residence. However, the homestead exemption does not prevent or stop a bank foreclosure if the homeowner defaults on their mortgage. Foreclosure occurs when a bank takes possession of a home due to a failure to make timely mortgage payments.





Key Takeaways

A homestead exemption reduces homeowners' state property tax obligation.The exemption can help protect a home from creditors in the event of a spouse dying or a homeowner declaring bankruptcy.The provision provides surviving qualifying spouses with ongoing property tax relief in certain states.The exemption only applies to one's primary residence.Although most states have homestead exemptions, the rules and protection limits vary.






   How Homestead Exemption Works  

If you have a primary residence and want to reduce the overall property tax bill associated with that residence, you may be able to apply for a homestead property tax exemption. Depending on where you live, you may not even have to fall within a certain subset of citizens to be eligible because some states actually offer the exemption to every homeowner. However, most states often require that you be:



An individual with a disabilityAn older adultA veteranA law enforcement official or first responder with a disability



Some homestead exemptions are based on a flat value reduction of all of the taxable value of your home. Other instances of the homestead property tax exemption are calculated by a percentage. In the former structure, lower-valued homes receive a larger reduction, while the latter is a better choice for people with high-value properties.



A version of the homestead exemption provision is found in every state or territory with some exceptions, such as New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Yet how the exemption is applied, and how much protection it affords against creditors, varies by state. The homestead exemption is an automatic benefit in some states while, in others, homeowners must file a claim with the state in order to receive it.



Since a homestead property is considered a person's primary residence, no exemptions can be claimed on other owned property, even residences. Further, if a surviving spouse moves their primary residence, they must re-file for the exemption.






The homestead tax exemption helps to shield a portion of a home's value from property taxes. Homeowners may need to apply for the benefit and should check with their local government on how to do so.


   Protection From Creditors Under Homestead Exemption  

The exemptions for homestead properties vary from state to state. A few states, including Florida and Texas, afford unlimited financial protection against unsecured creditors for the home, although acreage limits may apply for the protected property. More common, however, is a limit for protection from creditors that ranges between $5,000 and $500,000, depending on the state, with many states in the $30,000 to $50,000 range.



However, the protection limits are not for the value of the home, but for the homeowner's equity in it—the value of the property minus the balance of the mortgage and other financial claims on that property. If the equity held is less than the limit, the homeowner can't be forced to sell the property to benefit creditors. If a homestead's equity exceeds the limits, however, creditors may force the sale, although the homesteader may be allowed to keep a portion of the proceeds.



Additionally, the protection for the homestead property does not apply to secured creditors, such as the bank that holds the mortgage on the home. Instead, the homeowner is protected only from unsecured creditors who may come after the home's value to satisfy claims against the homeowner's assets.


  Bankruptcy Protection  

There's a twist when it comes to bankruptcy protection. For bankruptcy cases filed after April 1, 2019, federal bankruptcy law shields a home from sale if the owner's equity does not exceed $25,150. For cases brought before then, the exemption is $23,675.



In most states, homeowners are forced to use the state limits, which are often more favorable anyway. However, about one in three states allow either the federal or applicable state limit to be used.



Among the upshots: Those who declare bankruptcy in New Jersey or Pennsylvania can get protection using the federal limits despite the absence of a state homestead exemption in those states. Note, however, that bankruptcy protection similarly only protects against unsecured creditors; it will not prevent a bank that holds a mortgage from foreclosing on the home.


   Deducting the Homestead Exemption  

A homestead tax or property tax is typically applied to homes based on the assessed value of the property by the local government tax assessor's office. The homestead tax can be a percentage of the property's value or a fixed amount.



The homestead tax exemption may offer ongoing reductions in property taxes depending on local state laws. These exemptions can help surviving spouses remain in their homes after their income has been reduced by the death of their partner.



Homestead tax exemptions usually offer a fixed discount on taxes, such as exempting the first $50,000 of the assessed value, with the remainder taxed at the normal rate. For example, using a $50,000 homestead exemption, a home valued at $150,000 would be taxed on only $100,000 of assessed value, and a home valued at $75,000 would then be taxed on only $25,000.



Fixed homestead tax exemptions essentially turn a property tax into a progressive tax that is more favorable to those with more modest homes. In some areas, the exemption is paid for with a local or state (or equivalent unit) sales tax.






To qualify for homestead exemption, homeowners must occupy the property as their permanent residence. Homestead exemption cannot be claimed for any other property that may be located elsewhere.


   Example of a Homestead Exemption  

Let’s say the assessed value of your home is $300,000 and your property tax rate is 1%. Your property tax bill would equal $3,000. But if you were eligible for a homestead tax exemption of $50,000, the taxable value of your home would drop to $250,000, meaning your tax bill would drop to $2,500.




Who Is Eligible for a Homestead Exemption?
Eligibility for the homestead exemption varies by state. Typically, you will be eligible if your income is low, you are a senior, you have a disability, or you are a veteran. Exemptions can be combined if you fall into more than one category. There may also be a limit on the value of a home that can qualify for an exemption. Check with your local tax assessor.




How Do I Apply for a Homestead Exemption?
For details on homestead tax exemptions, go directly to your county or local tax assessor's website. Some states require you to fill out an application (often available online). Make sure you comply with your state's application deadlines.Also, be aware that some sites may be fraudulent and may request payment to fill out an application. Your county or local tax assessor will not require you to pay a fee to fill out an application for homestead tax exemption.




What States Have Homestead Exemptions?
Most states have homestead exemptions. New Jersey and Pennsylvania do not have homestead exemptions while Massachusetts and Rhode Island have set their exemption limit at $500,000. Some states have general homestead laws instead—for example, laws that protect surviving spouses from creditors.




How Do You Qualify for a Homestead Exemption in Florida?
To qualify for the homestead exemption in Florida, individuals must occupy the property as their permanent residence prior to January 1 of the year for which they are applying. An applicant must be a U.S. citizen or a permanent U.S. resident and a Florida resident. Applicants cannot be claiming or receiving any type of tax exemption on any other property in the United States. An exemption application must be completed and submitted to the property appraiser in the county where the property is located by the statutory deadline of March 1.The homestead exemption in Florida provides a tax exemption of up to $50,000. The first $25,000 applies to all property taxes, including school district taxes. An additional exemption of up to $25,000 applies to the assessed value between $50,000 and $75,000, but only to non-school taxes.


   The Bottom Line  

The homestead exemption provides an exemption from property taxes on a home. The exemption also protects the value of residents' homes from property taxes, creditors, and circumstances that arise from the death of the homeowner's spouse. Homestead exemption ensures that a surviving spouse has shelter.



The exemption only applies to a primary residence and cannot be claimed for another property elsewhere. In some states, homestead protection is automatic; however, in others, homeowners must file a claim for homestead exemption with the state.
What Is Homo Economicus?  

Homo economicus is a theoretical abstraction that some economists use to describe a rational human being. In certain neoclassical economic theories, people are portrayed this way: as ideal decision-makers with complete rationality, perfect access to information, and consistent, self-interested goals.





Key Takeaways

Homo economicus is a theoretical abstraction that some economists use to describe a rational human being. In certain neoclassical economic theories, people are portrayed this way: as ideal decision-makers with complete rationality, perfect access to information, and consistent, self-interested goals.Modern behavioral economists and those who study neuroeconomics, however, have demonstrated that human beings are, in fact, not rational in their decision-making.The origins of the homo economicus lie in an essay about the political economy by the English civil servant, philosopher, and political economist John Stuart Mill in 1836.Rationality should dictate that the rational business person should use profits from their business to live a fairly frugal existence but that is not always the case. 


   Understanding Homo Economicus  

Homo economicus, or economic man, is the figurative human being characterized by the infinite ability to make rational decisions. Certain economic models have traditionally relied on the assumption that humans are rational and will attempt to maximize their utility for both monetary and non-monetary gains.



Modern behavioral economists and those who study neuroeconomics, however, have demonstrated that human beings are, in fact, not rational in their decision-making. They argue that a "more human" subject (that makes somewhat predictable irrational decisions) would provide a more accurate tool for modeling human behavior.


   Origins of Homo Economicus  

The origins of homo economicus lie in an essay about the political economy by the English civil servant, philosopher, and political economist John Stuart Mill in 1836. The essay, which was titled On the Definition of Political Economy and on the Method of Investigation Proper to It, attempted to assign characteristics to subjects under consideration for the new field.



Mill's subject was a "being who desires to possess wealth, and who is capable of judging the comparative efficacy of means for obtaining that end." He stated that political economy abstracts other human motives, except for those that help the hypothetical being in his pursuit of wealth.



Luxury is considered part of the being's desires, as well as producing babies. The economic man's tastes and propensities are also passed on from one generation to another, according to Mill. In Mill's model, a parent with a taste for luxury might have children who possess similar tendencies.


   Defining Traits of Homo Economicus  

The most important trait of homo economicus is that they care, primarily, about maximizing profit. More importantly, they are always able to make decisions that allow them to pursue this goal in the most efficient way. If they are a consumer, the primary goal of the homo economicus is to maximize utility; if they are a producer, their primary goal is profit.



In addition to profit-maximization, there are several other defining traits of homo economicus. These traits include flawless rationality, unlimited cognitive capacity, perfect information, narrow self-interest, and preference consistency.



The decision-making of the homo economicus is perfectly rational and is never influenced by any personal biases. The homo economicus also has an unlimited cognitive capacity and can process any amount of information, regardless of its quantity, quality, or complexity. Furthermore, the homo economicus has access to all the relevant information that relates to the decisions they have to make.



The homo economicus possesses narrow self-interest; they are only concerned with helping themselves. Finally, the homo economicus' preferences and goals remain constant over time.


   Homo Economicus Today  

The homo economicus is a cornerstone of the neoclassical economics approach, particularly in microeconomics. In modern economics, the neoclassical theory rests on three assumptions: rational decisions, maximization of utility, and a self-interested orientation.



This assumes that individuals are conscious of making decisions based on their own self-interest, that individuals have relevant and full information so they can make a rational calculation that would maximize utility, and that the primary goal for companies is to maximize profits and for individuals, to maximize utility.



Companies accomplish this by adding to their workforce until a point where the value of the output balances the additional cost of hiring workers. Consumers attempt to maximize utility by paying for goods and services up to the point that the amount they pay balances the satisfaction gained from an extra unit.


   Limitations of Homo Economicus  

History and various economic crises over the years have proved that the theory of an economic man is a flawed one. Daniel Kahneman, an Israeli-American psychologist and Nobel laureate, and Amos Tversky, a leading expert in judgment and human decision making, founded the field of behavioral economics with their 1979 paper, "Prospect Theory: An Analysis of Decision under Risk."



Kahneman and Tversky researched human risk aversion, finding that people's attitudes regarding risks associated with gains are different from those concerning losses. Homo economicus, and the idea that humans always act rationally, is challenged by risk aversion. Kahneman and Tversky, for example, found that if given a choice between definitely getting $1,000 or having a 50% chance of getting $2,500, people are more likely to accept the $1,000.﻿﻿


   Other Human Decision-Making Models  

Because there are many criticisms of the homo economicus model, there have been alternative models of human decision-making that have been proposed over the years. Here are a few of them:



Homo reciprocans: The homo reciprocans is a person who rewards positive actions and punishes negative actions.



Homo politicus: The homo politicus is a person that always acts in a way that is consistent with what is best for society.



Homo sociologicus: The homo sociologicus is a person that is not always perfectly rational because they are affected by society; they strive to fulfill their role in society but are also influenced by societal forces.



It's important to keep in mind that these models are not mutually exclusive. For example, while a person may act like a homo reciprocans in one situation, they may act like a homo politicus in a different situation.


   Example of Homo Economicus  

The most common example provided of the homo economicus is that of a businessperson.



The businessperson seeks to eke out profits from each transaction and decision. For example, they may automate operations and lay off workers in order to maximize productivity. Similarly, they might get rid of non-performing parts of their business to focus on the ones that generate profits.






In 2007, in an essay in The New York Review of Books called “Who Was Milton Friedman?” Paul Krugman wrote that "For most of the past two centuries, economic thinking has been dominated by the concept of Homo economicus…. It’s easy to make fun of this story. Nobody, not even Nobel-winning economists, really makes decisions that way. But most economists—myself included—nonetheless find Economic Man useful, with the understanding that he’s an idealized representation of what we really think is going on."﻿﻿ 



The homo economicus brings the same rationality to their dealings in other spheres of life. But the theory falls short in explaining the rationale behind some seemingly irrational decisions. For example, rationality should dictate that the rational business person should use profits from their business to live a fairly frugal existence. But that is not always the case. The prevalence of luxury items and philanthropy are direct refutations of the theory.


   Homo Economicus FAQs  
  How Does Homo Economicus Contrast With Adam Smith’s Views?  

The idea of the homo economicus was introduced by John Stuart Mill in the 19th century in an essay about the political economy. Mill's theory was an extension of other ideas proposed by economists, such as Adam Smith and David Ricardo, who also saw humans as primarily self-interested economic agents.



Smith characterized humans as motivated by economic self-interest and the maximization of pleasure. He also described the human actor as rational with an underlying self-interest in the pursuit of wealth.


  How Does Homo Economicus Relate to Instrumental Rationality?  

Instrumental rationality is a way of reasoning that is concerned with the most efficient way to achieve an end. Instrumental rationality can be contrasted with value rationality, which only recognizes ends that are right, or legitimate in themselves. The sociologist Max Weber was the first to observe these two capacities and label them as such. Some characterizations paint the homo economicus as a perfectly rational, but amoral, actor. In this way, it could be said that homo economicus acts in a way that is consistent with instrumental rationality.﻿﻿


  Is Homo Economicus a Part of Behavioral Economics?  

Behavioral economics challenges the traditional view of the homo economicus. Behavioral economics tries to understand how psychology affects economic decisions. According to behavioral economists, humans are anything but rational.



Not only are individuals not always self-interested, but they also are not always concerned with maximizing benefits and minimizing costs. Most decision-making occurs with insufficient knowledge and processing capability, and we sometimes lack the self-control to engage in self-interested behavior. In addition, our preferences change, often in response to the context in which a decision is being made. For this reason, the theoretical abstraction of the homo economicus is incompatible with some of the basic beliefs of behavioral economics.
What Is "Homogeneous Expectations"?  

"Homogeneous expectations" refers to the assumption, expressed in Harry Markowitz's Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT), that all investors have the same expectations and make the same choices in a given situation.





Key Takeaways

Homogeneous expectations, in the frame of the modern portfolio theory, assume that all investors expect the same and make identical choices in a given situation.It posits that investors are rational actors and are not influenced by anything but the facts of the matter at hand.Critics have questioned that premise, arguing that people and investors are not always rational and have different perceptions and goals that impact their thought processes.


   Understanding Homogeneous Expectations  

MPT, pioneered by Harry Markowitz in his 1952 paper "Portfolio Selection," is a Nobel prize award-winning theory. It is an investment model designed to maximize returns while taking the lowest possible risk—MPT assumes that all investors are risk-averse and that risk is an inherent part of higher reward.



Markowitz argued that the solution is constructing a portfolio of multiple assets. When assets considered to be high-risk, such as small-cap stocks, are placed alongside others, their risk profile changes, balancing everything out because each asset class acts differently during a market cycle.



According to the theory, there are four steps involved in the construction of a portfolio:



Security valuation: Describing various assets in terms of expected returns and risks
Asset allocation: Distributing various asset classes within the portfolio
Portfolio optimization: Reconciling risk and return in the portfolio
Performance measurement: Dividing each asset's performance into market-related and industry-related classifications.



Homogeneous expectations are a core principle of MPT. It basically assumes all investors have the same expectations regarding inputs used to develop efficient portfolios, including asset returns, variances, and covariances. 



According to homogeneous expectations, if investors are shown several investment plans with different returns at a particular risk, they will choose the plan that boasts the highest return. Alternatively, if investors are shown plans that have different risks but the same returns, they will choose the plan that has the lowest risk. 



As you can see here, the homogeneous expectations assumption works on the theory that investors are rational actors. They all think alike and are not influenced by anything but the facts of the matter at hand. This is also an underlying assumption of many classical economic theories.


   Advantages of Homogeneous Expectations  

Markowitz’s MPT and homogeneous expectations theory have revolutionized investing strategies, emphasizing the importance of investment portfolios, risk, and the relationships between securities and diversification.



Many investors avoid attempting to time the market, preferring instead to buy securities and then hold onto them over the long-term, known as the buy and hold strategy. The balanced asset allocation approach, championed for Markowitz, has helped guide them to build robust portfolios.


   Criticism of Homogeneous Expectations  

MPT has also attracted plenty of backlashes. Making assumptions is always dangerous and homogeneous expectations make plenty of them.



The theory posits that markets are always efficient and that investors all think alike. Studies in behavioral finance have questioned that premise, arguing that people and investors are not always rational and have different perceptions and goals that impact their thought processes.



MPT categorizes investors as the same, suggesting that all of them want to maximize returns without taking on unnecessary risk, understand expected returns, do not factor in commissions when making decisions, and have access to the same information. History has shown that this is not always the case, questioning the validity of MPT and its core tenet: the notion of homogeneous expectations.
What Is Homoskedastic?  

Homoskedastic (also spelled "homoscedastic") refers to a condition in which the variance of the residual, or error term, in a regression model is constant. That is, the error term does not vary much as the value of the predictor variable changes. Another way of saying this is that the variance of the data points is roughly the same for all data points.



This suggests a level of consistency and makes it easier to model and work with the data through regression; however, the lack of homoskedasticity may suggest that the regression model may need to include additional predictor variables to explain the performance of the dependent variable.





Key Takeaways

Homoskedasticity occurs when the variance of the error term in a regression model is constant. If the variance of the error term is homoskedastic, the model was well-defined. If there is too much variance, the model may not be defined well. Adding additional predictor variables can help explain the performance of the dependent variable.Oppositely, heteroskedasticity occurs when the variance of the error term is not constant.


   How Homoskedasticity Works  

Homoskedasticity is one assumption of linear regression modeling and data of this type works well with the least squares method. If the variance of the errors around the regression line varies much, the regression model may be poorly defined.



The opposite of homoskedasticity is heteroskedasticity just as the opposite of "homogenous" is "heterogeneous." Heteroskedasticity (also spelled “heteroscedasticity”) refers to a condition in which the variance of the error term in a regression equation is not constant.


   Special Considerations  

A simple regression model, or equation, consists of four terms. On the left side is the dependent variable. It represents the phenomenon the model seeks to "explain." On the right side are a constant, a predictor variable, and a residual, or error, term. The error term shows the amount of variability in the dependent variable that is not explained by the predictor variable.


   Example of Homoskedastic  

For example, suppose you wanted to explain student test scores using the amount of time each student spent studying. In this case, the test scores would be the dependent variable and the time spent studying would be the predictor variable. 



The error term would show the amount of variance in the test scores that was not explained by the amount of time studying. If that variance is uniform, or homoskedastic, then that would suggest the model may be an adequate explanation for test performance—explaining it in terms of time spent studying.



But the variance may be heteroskedastic. A plot of the error term data may show a large amount of study time corresponded very closely with high test scores but that low study time test scores varied widely and even included some very high scores.



So the variance of scores would not be well-explained simply by one predictor variable—the amount of time studying. In this case, some other factor is probably at work, and the model may need to be enhanced in order to identify it or them.






When considering that variance is the measured difference between the predicted outcome and the actual outcome of a given situation, determining homoskedasticity can help to determine which factors need to be adjusted for accuracy.



Further investigation may reveal that some students had seen the answers to the test ahead of time or that they had previously taken a similar test, and therefore didn't need to study for this particular test. For that matter, it may just turn out that students had different levels of test passing abilities independent of their study time and their performance on previous tests, regardless of the subject.



To improve on the regression model, the researcher would have to try out other explanatory variables that could provide a more accurate fit to the data. If, for example, some students had seen the answers ahead of time, the regression model would then have two explanatory variables: time studying, and whether the student had prior knowledge of the answers.



With these two variables, more of the variance of the test scores would be explained and the variance of the error term might then be homoskedastic, suggesting that the model was well-defined.




What Does Heteroskedasticity Mean?
Heteroskedasticity in statistics is the error variance. This is the dependence of scattering that occurs within a sample with a minimum of one independent variable. This means that the standard deviation of a predictable variable is non-constant.




How Can You Tell If a Regression Is Homoskedastic?
You can tell if a regression is homoskedastic by looking at the ratio between the largest variance and the smallest variance. If the ratio is 1.5 or smaller, then the regression is homoskedastic.




Why Is Homoskedasticity Important?
Homoskedasticity is important because it identifies dissimilarities in a population. Any variance in a population or sample that is not even will produce results that are skewed or biased, making the analysis incorrect or worthless.
What Is Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx)?  

Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx) is a publicly-traded holding company that is one of the largest market operators in the world. Its subsidiaries include the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and the Hong Kong Futures Exchange. HKEx also manages four clearing houses in Hong Kong and the London Metal Exchange (LME), making it an important institution in the global financial markets.





Key Takeaways

Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx) is a publicly-traded holding company that is composed of some of the largest market institutions in the world.HKEx operates the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Futures Exchange, the London Metal Exchange, and four clearing houses in Hong Kong.HKEx is one of the largest and well-capitalized market operators in the world with a market cap of $43.3 trillion as of October 2020.The primary services of HKEx include listing, trading, clearing, market data, reference prices, and connectivity.HKEx also serves as a regulating body, overseeing the trading activities of companies listed in Hong Kong and those who participate in trading activities within its venue.To be included on Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited's (HKEx's) main board, an interested company must pass one of three tests: a profit test, a market cap and revenue test, or a market cap, revenue, and cash flow test.


   Understanding Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx)  

Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx) was created in 2000, as the result of a greater emphasis on comprehensive reform and oversight related to stock and futures markets in Hong Kong.



HKEx was formed through the merger of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the Hong Kong Futures Exchange, and the Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company. The merger was designed to increase China's competitiveness in the global market.



Today, the corporate structure focuses on three main markets that are integrated to form a complementary grouping. These core markets, which include two of the company’s original components, are the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Futures Exchange, and the London Metal Exchange (LME). This current makeup allows the HKEx to position itself in a way to take advantage of two of the world’s leading financial hubs, Hong Kong and London.



As of October 2020, it has a market cap of $43.3 trillion with 2,524 listed companies.﻿﻿


   Functions of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx)  

The company is a global platform for raising capital for issuers based in Hong Kong, throughout China, and around the world. Its main services include listing, trading, clearing, market data, reference prices, and connectivity.



HKEx operates four clearing houses: SEHK Options Clearing House Limited (SEOCH), OTC Clearing Hong Kong Limited (OTC Clear), Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company (HKSCC), and HKFE Clearing Corporation Limited (HKCC).



HKEx also serves as a regulating body, overseeing the trading activities of companies listed in Hong Kong and those who participate in trading activities within its venue. The company prides itself on maintaining a well-organized and tightly-regulated marketplace for investors.


   Listing on Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited (HKEx)  

HKEx trades in stocks, bonds, warrants, REITs, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and equity-linked instruments. To be traded on HKEx's main board, a company must satisfy one of three tests: a profit test, a market cap and revenue test, or a market cap, revenue, and cash flow test.



The profit test requires a company to have a three-year aggregate profit of HK$50 million or more and a market cap of HK$500 million or more.



The market cap and revenue test requires a company's latest revenue figures to be HK$500 million or more and to have a market cap of HK$4 billion or more.



The market cap, revenue, and cash flow test stipulates that a company must have its latest revenue figures be HK$500 million or more, a market cap of HK$2 billion or higher, and a positive three-year aggregate cash flow of HK$100 million or more.



Other requirements include an interested party to have management continuity of three years, a minimum of 300 shareholders, and semi-annual financial reporting, among other requirements.
What Is the Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate (HIBOR)?  

The Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate, known by its abbreviation HIBOR, is the benchmark interest rate, stated in Hong Kong dollars, for lending between banks within the Hong Kong market. The HIBOR is a reference rate for lenders and borrowers that participate directly or indirectly in the Asian economy. As of December 2020, plans were in place to transition away from HIBOR to the Hong Kong Overnight Index Average (HONIA).﻿﻿


   Understanding the Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate (HIBOR)  

The banking industry uses an interbank market for transferring funds and currency, and for managing liquidity. If a Hong Kong bank is nearing the point at which withdrawals are close to depleting short-term cash reserves, that bank will go into the Hong Kong interbank market and borrow money at the Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate (HIBOR). The terms of the loans vary from overnight to one year. The U.K. version, the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), is similar to the HIBOR. 



The rate is released each day at 11:00 a.m. local time. It is derived from the contributed quotes of 20 banks determined by the Hong Kong Association of Banks (HKAB). The HKAB acts similarly to a central bank for Hong Kong. The highest three and the lowest three contributed values are discarded leaving the remaining 14 contributions in the calculation.



HIBOR's primary function is to serve as the benchmark reference rate in the Asian markets for debt instruments. This function assists government and corporate bonds, mortgages, and derivatives, such as currency and interest rate swaps, among many other financial products. For example, an interest rate swap involving two counterparties with good credit ratings, both of which have bonds issued in Hong Kong dollars, will likely be quoted in HIBOR plus a given percentage.



In another example, a Hong Kong dollar-denominated floating-rate note (FRN), or floater, which pays coupons based on HIBOR plus a margin of 35 basis points (0.35%) annually. In this case, the HIBOR rate used is the one-year HIBOR plus a 35 basis point spread. Every year, the coupon rate is reset to match the current Honk Kong dollar one-year HIBOR, plus the predetermined spread.



If, for instance, the one-year HIBOR is 4% at the start of the year, the bond will return 4.35% of its par value at year's end. The spread usually increases or decreases depending on the creditworthiness of the institution issuing the debt.


   Criticism of HIBOR  

Since the Asian currency crisis in 1997, concerns over volatility and even liquidity grew to a point where HIBOR's value as a benchmark is questioned. Even LIBOR, which is a global benchmark, is under fire, especially since the 2012 LIBOR fixing scandal. As of December 2020, plans were in place to phase out the LIBOR system by 2023 and replace it with other benchmarks, such as the Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA).﻿﻿ SONIA is based on actual bids and offers from the contributing banks and not indicated levels. The latter are subject to manipulation if the contributing bank wants to hide or enhance its capital position.



Indeed, in 2013, the HIBOR market had its scandal when the city widened its investigation into possible manipulation of this key interest rate. The HIBOR fixing mechanism was eventually ruled to be sound, but with similar problems surfacing in other interbank markets, the trend towards finding replacements is moving forward.



The replacement push centers on LIBOR since it is the globally recognized standard. The U.S. Federal Reserve introduced the secured overnight financing rate (SOFR), a new reference rate created in cooperation with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Research.
What is the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA)  

Established in 1993, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) acts to control inflation and maintain the stability of the Hong Kong dollar (HKD) and of the banking sector through its monetary policy.﻿﻿ The HKMA links the HKD to the U.S. dollar to help the HKD maintain a stable value.﻿﻿


   Understanding the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA)  

Hong Kong is a key finance capital for the People's Republic of China, and it's a place for multinational companies to set up operations. As a Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong is an autonomous territory with its own currency and an annual nominal GDP of more than $365 billion as of 2019.﻿﻿ The HKMA acts as a de facto central bank for the region.﻿﻿ 



The HKMA maintains a sovereign wealth fund called the Hong Kong Monetary Authority Investment Portfolio.﻿﻿ The HKMA is a member of the Executives' Meeting of East Asia-Pacific Central Banks along with the Reserve Bank of Australia, the People's Bank of China, the Bank of Japan, and seven other central banks.﻿﻿


   HKMA Responsibilities  

One of the key roles of the HKMA is maintaining currency stability. The Linked Exchange Rate system is designed to stabilize the exchange rate between the Hong Kong dollar (HKD) and the United States dollar (USD). The fixed-rate exchange system seeks to maintain parity with the USD within a tight range, allowing HKD note-issuing banks to issue new banknotes only when they deposit an equivalent value of U.S. dollars with the authority.﻿﻿ The exchange rate tends to fluctuate within a set range. The HKMA has one of the world's largest currency reserves in relation to its economy.﻿﻿ 



The authority operates the Exchange Fund. The fund's primary objective "to affect, either directly or indirectly, the exchange value of the currency of Hong Kong." The Fund may also be used to maintain the stability and integrity of Hong Kong's monetary and financial systems to help maintain Hong Kong as an international financial center.﻿﻿



The HKMA is charged with promoting the stability and integrity of the financial system, including the banking system. One of the key ways the authority does this is by buying HKD to maintain parity with the dollar within the stated range.﻿﻿ As of 2021, the fixed-rate system has kept interest rates ultra-low in Hong Kong, encouraging expansion and investment.﻿﻿ But low-interest rates have also fueled a record home price boom in the territory, creating affordability problems.
What Is the Hong Kong Monetary Authority Investment Portfolio?  

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority Investment Portfolio is an investment portfolio run by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. The authority is the sovereign wealth fund of the government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.


   Understanding the Hong Kong Monetary Authority Investment Portfolio (HKMA)  

The investment portfolio is only one of two in the Hong Kong Monetary Authority's Exchange Fund. The Exchange Fund also manages a backing portfolio that supports the operations of the Hong Kong Currency Board. Because the backing portfolio is invested only in highly liquid U.S. government securities, it is generally not considered part of the sovereign wealth fund. According to the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute, the investment portfolio controlled $580.54 billion in assets as of 2021 and is the 4th largest sovereign wealth fund in the world.


   The Hong Kong Monetary Authority  

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority is the region’s currency board and de facto central bank. It was established April 1, 1993, when the Office of the Exchange Fund and the Office of the Commissioner of Banking merged. The organization reports directly to the financial secretary.



Under the Exchange Fund Ordinance, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority’s primary objective is to ensure the stability of the region's currency and banking system. It is also responsible for promoting the efficiency, integrity, and development of the financial system.



A majority of the Exchange Fund assets are managed internally. All of the backing fund is managed internally, as is some of the investment portfolio. However, the Exchange Fund employs external managers for its equity portfolios and other specialized investments. The investment benchmark for the Exchange Fund consists of 75% bonds and 25% equities.


   The Hong Kong Monetary Authority Investment Portfolio  

The Hong Kong Monetary Authority investment portfolio is invested primarily in the bond and equity markets of OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) countries. The target allocation is 73% bonds and 27% equities. The target currency mix is 89% USD- and HKD-denominated assets to 11% other denomination assets.



The investment process of the Exchange Fund is underpinned by decisions on two types of asset allocation: strategic and tactical. The strategic asset allocation, reflected in the investment benchmark, represents the long-term optimal asset allocation given the investment objectives of the Exchange Fund. Guided by the strategic allocation, assets are tactically allocated in an attempt to achieve an excess return over the benchmark. This means the actual allocation is often different from the benchmark, or strategic, allocation.
What Is Hong Kong SAR, China?  

Hong Kong is the premier financial and business center in China and a regional financial leader. Hong Kong is one of China's special administrative regions (SARs). A SAR is a relatively autonomous region within the People's Republic of China that maintains separate legal, administrative, and judicial systems from the rest of the country.





Key Takeaways

Hong Kong is an Asian financial hub once colonized by the British and is now a semi-autonomous part of China.Special Administrative Regions (SARs) exist as relatively autonomous portions of a country that maintain some degree of political and economic independence.Because of their history of independence and colonization, SARs such as Hong Kong may find themselves in conflict with the political authority of China.


   Understanding Hong Kong SAR, China  

Hong Kong is a special administrative region (SAR) that exists as part of the People’s Republic of China under the “One Country, Two Systems” doctrine, negotiated in the Sino-British Joint Declaration, negotiated and signed in 1984, but taking effect in 1997.



The "One Country, Two Systems" doctrine stipulated that the People's Republic of China's socialist system would not be practiced in Hong Kong, and Hong Kong would maintain its political and economic quasi-independence for 50 years after the transfer of sovereignty, until 2047.



What does that mean? Since July 1, 1997, when the United Kingdom transferred the sovereignty of Hong Kong to China, Hong Kong has maintained a separate political and economic system from China—democratic(ish), and capitalist—and a separate currency (the Hong Kong Dollar, HKD$).



Hong Kong retains independent executive, legislative, and judiciary powers, in all matters other than military defense and foreign affairs. English and Chinese are the two official languages.


   Hong Kong's Economy  

Hong Kong has been ranked as the world's freest economy in the Heritage's Index of Economic Freedom since the index's inception in 1995, until 2020 when Singapore knocked it off the top spot to number two. However, the following year, the index stopped including Hong Kong and Macau due to an increase in China's influence.



In 1990, Milton Friedman wrote that it was perhaps the best example of a free market economy. The service economy in Hong Kong is characterized primarily by low taxation, near-free port trade, and a well-established international financial market. Service economy, here, means an economy that is not industrial, or manufacturing based, but is instead based in financial services, health, and human services, hospitality, information technology, etc.



Using its political and economic autonomy, Hong Kong has positioned itself as the place where international and Chinese businesses find common ground. It is also considered the principal financial center in China. As a result, more than 1,400 companies from all over the world are headquartered in Hong Kong.



This democratic government and the free market have been successful, to some extent. It's the world's 43rd largest economy in 2022 with a population smaller than the city of Tokyo, at 7.35 million in 2022. Hong Kong had a GDP of $359.8 billion in 2022, giving it the world's 28th highest GDP per capita, at $48,983 in 2022.


   Hong Kong and China's Tensions  

Historically, China has had considerable incentive to refrain from interfering in Hong Kong's political and economic systems. At the transfer of sovereignty in 1997, Hong Kong, with a population of 6.5 million at the time, had an economy one-fifth the size of the Chinese economy, which had a population of over 1.2 billion.



This is no longer the case. Over the past 20 years, Hong Kong's economy has stagnated, changing very little in makeup, with GDP growth slowing, and inequality rising significantly. In that same time, China became an economic superpower. As of 2022, Hong Kong now accounts for just 2% of Chinese GDP.



Some think that the greatest risk to Hong Kong's autonomy is political and business elites in the region ceding it to the Liaison Office, to remove political tensions from the region, and return Hong Kong to an economic city.



This may prove a poor decision though, as a marriage of business and government has proven counterproductive in Hong Kong, leading to an increase in conflicts of interest and cronyism, not to mention a non-responsive government that refuses to broaden its tax base or lower property taxes, and has excluded political parties from democratic participation. All of this has led to a public perception of the Hong Kong SAR government as not as legitimate as it once was.



Given these recent trends, the Liaison Office, the People's Republic of China representative in Hong Kong, has been taking steps to meaningfully increase its influence and clout in the region, interfering in both domestic affairs and elections. For example, the Liaison Office bought Hong Kong's largest publishing house (removing titles critical of the Communist Party) and lobbied for Hong Kong's 2017 chief executive, Carrie Lam. In 2022, Lam stepped down.




What Is the Financial System of Hong Kong?
Hong Kong is a large financial center with many banks and financial institutions. The region has favorable tax laws and a strong financial market with its own stock market. The currency, the Hong Kong dollar, is pegged to the U.S. dollar.




What Is Hong Kong Ranked in the Financial Market?
According to the Global Financial Centres Index 32, published in Sept. 2022, Hong Kong ranks fourth in a list of the top global financial centers, behind New York, London, and Singapore.




Is Hong Kong Financially Stable?
Yes, Hong Kong is financially stable. Despite protests and China's ever-expanding grip to bring Hong Kong further under its laws, Hong Kong remains a financially stable region.


   The Bottom Line  

Hong Kong is one of the leading financial centers in the world and for a large part of its history was under British rule, until it was "returned" to China in 1997. Hong Kong operated outside of China's sphere of politics for a long time after returning to the country; however, as China has grown, both in economic and political power, it has brought Hong Kong further into its control. The region continues to be a prominent financial hub in both Asia and the world.
What is the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKG) .HK  

The Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKG) .HK is a member of the HKEX Group and the leading venue for capital raising activity for Hong Kong and Mainland Chinese issuers. One of the world's largest securities markets by market capitalization, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange traces its origins to the founding of China's first formal securities market, the Association of Stockbrokers in Hong Kong, in 1891. A second market opened in 1921, and in 1947 the two merged to form the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.﻿﻿ The exchange introduced automated ordering in 1993 and stock option trading in 1995.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿ It merged with the Hong Kong Futures Exchange and the Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company in 2000 to form Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd., a publicly-traded company.﻿﻿ Due to the dominance of electronic trading, the stock exchange closed down its physical trading floor in 2017.﻿﻿


   BREAKING DOWN Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKG) .HK  

The Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKG) .HK is one of the largest markets in Asia with over 2,500 listed companies of the end of Nov. 2020, up from 1,200 in 2008. The aggregate market capitalization of companies listed on the exchange was around HK$45.5 trillion as of Nov. 2020.﻿﻿ The growth has been fueled by listings by Mainland Chinese companies ("H-shares" on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange) whose rapid development has gone hand-in-hand with the enormous economic rise of the country. The minimum market capitalization for a listing is currently HK$500 million and the minimum value of public float is HK$125 million. The exchange raised these minimum amounts in 2017 to strengthen trading liquidity for market participants and enhance the quality of the exchange's listed issuers.﻿﻿



Several of the top listed companies by market capitalization are banks and insurance companies from Mainland China, such as the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, China Construction Bank, Bank of China, and Ping An Insurance. However, as of Nov. 2020, Tencent Holdings, the Chinese internet conglomerate, stands far above the crowd at the No. 1 position.﻿﻿ (For related reading, see "How to Trade on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange")
What Is an Honorarium?  

An honorarium is a voluntary payment that is given to a person for services for which fees are not legally or traditionally required. Honoraria are typically used to help cover costs for volunteers or guest speakers and may be considered taxable income. For example, when a guest makes a speech at a conference, they might receive an honorarium to cover travel expenses.



An honorarium is a different type of payment than a per diem, which is a daily allowance paid to employees or consultants to cover business trip expenses, like a hotel stay, travel, and food.


   How an Honorarium Works  

An honorarium is often provided for services meriting compensation that propriety prevents from requesting. For example, a world-renowned professor gives a speech to a scholarly foundation, and the foundation provides the professor with an honorarium for their service.



An honorarium is determined by the amount of work put into creating and delivering a service, such as a speech. For example, one hour of speaking may entail three days of effort. In addition, delivering a speech on multiple occasions requires hours of practicing and improving before each presentation.






Money made from honoraria is usually not considered tax-free income.



The speaker’s travel and recovery time require consideration as well. For example, one hour of speaking may require three days of work: one day for practicing and improving the speech, another day for travel and deliverance and a third for getting back into the speaker’s normal routine. Those three days cannot be used for making money through other methods, justifying an honorarium.





Key Takeaways

An honorarium is a payment given to guest speakers who don't charge a fee for their services.Honoraria are often used in academic settings by universities.A guest speaker is allowed to return an honorarium and pay out of pocket.An honorarium is considered self-employment income by the IRS and is usually taxed accordingly.


   Tax Treatment of an Honorarium  

Like other forms of income, an honorarium is taxable. Organizations paying honoraria report them to both the speaker and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on a 1099-MISC form if compensation is $600 or greater in one calendar year.



Even if a speaker does not receive Form 1099, they still must report the honorarium as income. There are rare exceptions to the rule. For example, the IRS allows ministers tax exemption on honoraria paid for giving speeches or performing weddings, baptisms, or other activities. The honoraria may be considered gifts rather than taxable compensation if the intent was giving the honoraria as such.



An honorarium is considered self-employment income and is typically reported with related expenses on Schedule C of IRS Form 1040 for a tax return. For example, the speaker may deduct the cost of their unreimbursed plane ticket and lodging, having speech materials printed, maintaining a website, and using a cellphone for business. If honoraria are not part of a speaker’s regular business, they are reported as other income on the 1040 document. An honorarium may be subject to self-employment tax as well.



A speaker traveling out of state and earning an honorarium can create additional taxation. Many states consider giving a speech within their borders a nexus, letting the state claim taxes against the speaker’s income. As a result, a speaker may end up filing and paying multiple state tax returns.
What Is a Hook Reversal?  

Hook reversals are short-term candlestick patterns that predict a reversal in the trend's direction. The pattern occurs when a candlestick has a higher low and a lower high than the previous session's candlestick. This pattern differs from engulfing patterns in that the size difference between the first and second bar's body can be relatively small.





Key Takeaways

Hook reversals are short-term candlestick patterns that predict reversals trends' directions.When a candlestick has a higher low and a lower high than the previous session's candlestick, this is a hook reversal.A hook reversal differs from an engulfing pattern, in that the size difference between the first and second bar's body can be relatively small.Among active traders, hook reversal patterns are popular since they occur fairly frequently and are relatively easy to spot.


   How a Hook Reversal Works  

Hook reversal patterns are popular candlestick patterns among active traders since they occur fairly frequently and are relatively easy to spot since the second candlestick changes to the opposite color. The strength and reliability of the pattern often depends on the strength of the uptrend or downtrend that preceded it, and most traders use other candlestick patterns, chart patterns, or technical indicators as confirmation of a reversal. After all, the pattern occurs relatively frequently, which leads to many false positives that must be discounted.



Hook reversal patterns are often classified as a type of harami or engulfing because the real body of the second candle forms within the body of the previous candle. They are also similar to dark cloud cover patterns where both real bodies are similar length. The key difference is that hook reversal patterns only require a small size difference, whereas harami and engulfing patterns emphasize large differences in sizes between candlesticks. In general, harami and engulfings tend to be less common and more accurate than hook reversal patterns in predicting a trend reversal.


   Examples of Hook Reversals  

Hook reversal patterns can be either bullish or bearish reversal patterns:



Bearish hook reversals occur at the top of an uptrend when the open of the second candle is near the high of the first candle and the close of the second candle is near the low of the first candle. In other words, bulls are in control of the market early on before bears regain control and send the price sharply lower during the session.
Bullish hook reversals occur at the bottom of a downtrend when the open of the second candle is near the low of the first candle and the second handle is near the high of the first candle. In other words, bears are in control of the market early on before bulls regain control and send the price sharply higher during the session.



Traders should set take-profit and stop-loss points for these reversals based on other technical indicators or chart patterns since hook reversals only indicate that a potential reversal is about to take place without providing insight into the magnitude of the reversal.
What Was the Hope Credit?  

The Hope Credit, or the Hope Scholarship Tax Credit, was a nonrefundable education tax credit offered to eligible American taxpayers. Qualifying students could claim this tax credit for their first two years of postsecondary education.



The Hope and other lifetime learning credits were enacted to encourage higher education and provide a measure of tuition reimbursement for parents (or students) who are paying college tuition and fees.



The American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) replaced the Hope Credit in tax year 2009.





Key Takeaways

The Hope Credit allowed eligible students to qualify for a maximum $1,800 income tax credit for the first two years of college.This credit was a nonrefundable tax credit that can only reduce a taxpayer’s liability to zero; any amount that remains from the credit is automatically forfeited by the taxpayer.To qualify, taxpayers were subject to eligibility requirements such as the income thresholds of the household and the enrollment status of the student.In 2009, the American Opportunity Tax Credit replaced the Hope credit.


   The Basics of the Hope Credit  

The Hope Credit was one of two nonrefundable education credits available for taxpayers. Recipients could take the Hope Credit for tuition and fees and other expenses such as books. Room and board, medical expenses, and insurance do not qualify for the Hope Credit. The student incurring the expenses could have been either the taxpayer, spouse, or dependent.



The other available credit is the Lifetime Learning Credit, which could not have been claimed with the Hope Credit.



As of 2009, the Hope Credit became part of the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC).



As of 2022, the maximum AOTC credit is $2,500. Any individual who incurs qualifying educational expenses can claim an education credit. Qualifying educational expenses include tuition and fees. Parents who pay tuition and fees for their children can claim this type of credit on their tax returns, subject to certain income restrictions.






When the Hope Credit was expanded and renamed the American Opportunity Tax Credit, a portion of the tax credit also became refundable. This means if the credit brings the amount of tax the taxpayer owes to zero, they can have 40% of the remaining amount of the credit (up to $1,000) refunded to them.


   Special Considerations: Education Tax Credits  

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) expanded the Hope Credit in 2009. This made the credit more accessible to parents and students. Now more people qualify for the Hope Credit under the auspices of the American Opportunity Tax Credit. The AOTC made the Hope Credit available to a broader range of taxpayers, expanding eligibility to those with higher incomes and those who owe no tax. The tax is available to individuals with a modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) of $80,000 or less ($160,000 or less for joint filers).



The IRS considers a student qualified if they are enrolled at an accredited postsecondary institution at least part-time in one academic year. That student must still be enrolled at the institution at the beginning of the tax year, taking courses toward a degree or another recognized educational qualification, and must not have been convicted of any felony drug offense by the end of the tax year.



Taxpayers can claim the credit for up to four years of postsecondary education to reduce the costs of tuition and other eligible expenses. According to the IRS, a qualified educational expense includes tuition paid to the school and expenses for books, supplies, and equipment that may have been bought from external sources. These expenses qualify if taxpayers use student loans to pay for them but not if they use scholarships, grants, or funds from a 529 savings plan.
What Is Hope Now Alliance?  

The term Hope Now Alliance refers to a public-private initiative that worked to combat home foreclosures that emerged from the subprime mortgage market meltdown. The initiative was launched in 2007 and was comprised of members from the U.S. government, the secondary mortgage market, lenders, mortgage-backed securities (MBS) investors, and homeownership counseling organizations. The group focused its efforts on reversing the foreclosure trend focused on contacting homeowners for loan modifications and workouts. The organization suspended operations in 2020 because of the global COVID-19 pandemic.





Key Takeaways

Hope Now Alliance was formed in 2007 to help homeowners avert foreclosure.The alliance was comprised of homeowner resources that navigate mortgage counseling, unemployment, and money management.It also advocated for higher lending standards and more ethical conduct in the mortgage industry.Hope Now Alliance was run out of the Housing Policy Council, a trade organization made up of lenders, services, insurers, and other market participants.The organization closed down in 2020 because of the global COVID-19 pandemic.


   Understanding Hope Now Alliance  

The formation of Hope Now Alliance was the direct result of encouragement from the Treasury Department and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).﻿﻿ Established in 2007, Hope Now Alliance's main goal was to create a unified, coordinated plan to assist homeowners, communities, and government partners to repair the mortgage market following the subprime mortgage crisis that led to the Great Recession.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿



It did this by fighting the wave of foreclosures across the country. The alliance's efforts were focused on providing assistance to homeowners who were in danger of losing their homes through loan forgiveness, modified loans, financial counseling, and workouts.﻿﻿ Workouts are agreements that can result in a modified repayment plan or a loan modification. 



Hope Now Alliance also advocated for higher lending standards and more ethical conduct in the mortgage industry after the foreclosure wave subsided and the economy started to improve. It began to focus on stabilizing the housing market by making the mortgage process more straightforward and less risky for both lenders and borrowers.



Its tools included a nationally-promoted website with foreclosure prevention information, a 24-hour toll-free telephone number, and free phone counseling through the Homeownership Preservation Foundation, among other efforts.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

Although Hope Now Alliance was formed as a separate entity, its operations were run directly out of the Housing Policy Council as of 2008, according to The New York Times.﻿﻿ The council was created in 2003 in order to push for a safe and sound system. It advocates for increased accountability and transparency in order to create a level playing field for everyone in the market.﻿﻿



Hope Now Alliance announced its closure in July 2020 due to problems stemming from the global COVID-19 pandemic. The alliance said it could no longer hold the large public gatherings that it once did to bring borrowers and lenders together due to social distancing guidelines. It also stated that increased automation in the industry made the organization redundant.﻿﻿






The Hope Now Alliance announced its closure in July 2020 due, in part, to the coronavirus pandemic.


   Criticism of Hope Now Alliance  

Hope Now Alliance was formed when the housing market was in a free fall because of the subprime mortgage lending crisis. The organization claimed that it helped over 1.7 million distressed borrowers as of the third quarter of 2009, and reported resolving over two million cases in 2014.﻿﻿



But the actual number of borrowers, defined as those who have received long-term help and were permanently not at risk for foreclosure as a result of their loan workout or modification, did not lose their homes to foreclosure and are able to obtain another mortgage, is unclear.﻿﻿



Critics claimed that the alliance did not do enough to aid distressed borrowers and that rollout of the group's assistance was uncoordinated, leaving homeowners confused and still at risk for foreclosure. They also claimed that the alliance’s member firms were slow to move, in part because as lenders and investors they stood to lose money on their investment if borrowers received loan modifications that lowered the amount of money owed on their loan.﻿﻿



The core criticism was that Hope Now Alliance marketed itself heavily to homeowners as a source of help, but was actually gatekeeping who received help to aid the least risky borrowers in order to benefit lenders.﻿﻿
What Is Horizon Analysis?  

Horizon analysis compares the projected discounted returns of a security or investment portfolio’s total returns over several time frames or investment horizons.





Key Takeaways

Horizon analysis compares the projected discounted returns of a security or investment portfolio’s total returns over several time frames, often referred to as the investment horizon.Typically, horizon analysis is used to gauge the expected performance of portfolios comprised of fixed income securities (bonds).Horizon analysis enables the portfolio manager to evaluate which bonds would perform the best over the planned investment horizon.


   Understanding Horizon Analysis  

Horizon analysis uses scenario analysis to estimate a more realistic expectation of an investment, or portfolio's, performance. Typically, this type of analysis is used to gauge the expected performance of portfolios comprised of fixed income securities (bonds).



The horizon analysis framework allows portfolio managers to project the performance of bonds on the basis of the planned investment horizon and expectations concerning levels of risk, interest rates, reinvestment rates, and future market yields.



By breaking down expected returns into scenarios, it is possible to evaluate which bonds would perform the best over the planned investment horizon – something that would not be possible using the yield to maturity (YTM). This scenario analysis enables the portfolio manager to see how sensitive a bond’s performance will be to each scenario, and whether it would be likely to meet their investor's goals over their expected investment horizon.





Similar Term

Horizontal analysis is used in financial statement analysis to compare historical data, such as ratios, or line items, over a number of accounting periods.


   Investment Horizons and Portfolio Construction  

When investors have a longer investment horizon, they can take on more risk, since the market has many years to recover in the event of a pullback. For example, an investor with an investment horizon of 30 years would typically have most of their assets allocated to equities.



Beyond that, an investor with a long time horizon may invest their assets in what are considered riskier types of equities, such as mid-cap and small-cap stocks. These types of stocks, or sub-asset classes, tend to exhibit much larger price swings over short time periods than do large-cap stocks because they tend to be less well-established and are more susceptible to outside economic forces.



Thus, while they may be risky for investors with shorter investment horizons, these short-term swings have little to no impact on investors looking to hold on to those stocks for the next 30 years.



Investors adjust their portfolios as their investment horizon shortens, typically in the direction of reducing the portfolio's level of risk. For example, most retirement portfolios decrease their exposure to equities and increase their holdings of fixed income assets as they near retirement. Fixed-income investments typically provide a lower potential return over the long-run relative to stocks, but they add stability to a portfolio's value since they typically experience less pronounced short-term price swings.
What Is a Horizontal Acquisition?  

A horizontal acquisition is when one company acquires another company in the same industry and works at the same production stage. The new combined entity may be in a better competitive position due to increased market share or scalability than the standalone companies combined to form it.



During a horizontal acquisition, a company can expand its production of products, but it doesn't mean a pivot for the company. Horizontal acquisitions expand the capacity of the acquirer, but the basic business operations remain the same, unlike an acquisition that creates a wholly different company.





Key Takeaways

When one company takes over or acquires a similar company in the same industry, it is called a horizontal acquisition.When a company purchases a similar company, its basic business operations do not usually change but expand.During a horizontal acquisition, the two companies often produce similar products and have similar production schedules.An example of a horizontal acquisition would be a candy company that purchasing another candy company with different products but a similar production schedule.The key difference between a horizontal acquisition and a virtual acquisition is that in the latter, the companies would be in the same industry but would have completely different production cycles.


   Understanding Horizontal Acquisitions  

The companies involved in a horizontal acquisition generally produce the same goods or services and produce them at the same point in the production cycle. This is so the new entity can experience more production capacity and take advantage of an increased market share. If the companies were at different stages of the production cycle, the equipment may not overlap and be as valuable to the acquiring entity.



And integrating two like companies in a horizontal acquisition can be challenging if the company cultures are vastly different. There are different types of acquisitions, some of which focus on obtaining equipment or control of operations at another point in the production cycle.






After a horizontal acquisition, a company will gain access to a wider customer base.



In a vertical acquisition, the two companies would be in the same industry, like food production or energy, but at different stages of the production cycle. This allows the acquiring company to obtain equipment that is either further upstream from the end client (backward vertical integration) or further downstream towards the end client (forward vertical integration). This gives the acquiring company more control over the production.



Horizontal integrations allow the purchasing company to reduce competition by acquiring it, diversify product offerings, creating new products, grow in size, and tap into new markets.


   Example of a Horizontal Acquisition  

For example, an energy producer purchases a rival that also produces energy. This is a horizontal acquisition because it is within the same industry and production schedule.



Next, the same energy producer purchases a company that manages and maintains city power grids. This is an example of a forward vertical integration because the energy producer has purchased a company responsible for bringing its product closer to the end consumer.
What Is Horizontal Analysis?  

Horizontal analysis is used in financial statement analysis to compare historical data, such as ratios, or line items, over a number of accounting periods. Horizontal analysis can either use absolute comparisons or percentage comparisons, where the numbers in each succeeding period are expressed as a percentage of the amount in the baseline year, with the baseline amount being listed as 100%. This is also known as base-year analysis.





Key Takeaways

Horizontal analysis is used in the review of a company's financial statements over multiple periods.It is usually depicted as percentage growth over the same line item in the base year.Horizontal analysis allows financial statement users to easily spot trends and growth patterns.Horizontal analysis shows a company's growth and financial position versus competitors.Horizontal analysis can be manipulated to make the current period look better if specific historical periods of poor performance are chosen as a comparison.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   How Horizontal Analysis Works  

Horizontal analysis allows investors and analysts to see what has been driving a company's financial performance over several years and to spot trends and growth patterns. This type of analysis enables analysts to assess relative changes in different line items over time and project them into the future. An analysis of the income statement, balance sheet, and cash flow statement over time gives a complete picture of operational results and reveals what is driving a company’s performance and whether it is operating efficiently and profitably.



The analysis of critical measures of business performance, such as profit margins, inventory turnover, and return on equity, can detect emerging problems and strengths. For example, earnings per share (EPS) may have been rising because the cost of goods sold (COGS) has been falling or because sales have been growing steadily.



Coverage ratios, like the cash flow-to-debt ratio and the interest coverage ratio, can reveal how well a company can service its debt through sufficient liquidity and whether that ability is increasing or decreasing. Horizontal analysis also makes it easier to compare growth rates and profitability among multiple companies in the same industry.



Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) are based on the consistency and comparability of financial statements. Using consistent accounting principles like GAAP ensures consistency and the ability to accurately review a company's financial statements over time. Comparability is the ability to review two or more different companies' financials as a benchmarking exercise.


   How to Perform a Horizontal Analysis  

A horizontal analysis is performed by following the three primary steps.


  Step 1: Gather Financial Information  

To perform a horizontal analysis, you must first gather financial information of a single entity across periods of time. Most horizontal analysis entail pulling quarterly or annual financial statements, though specific account balances can be pulled if you're looking for a specific type of analysis.



Be mindful that the gaps between each financial statement are consistent. You can choose whatever interval (month-over-month, year-over-year, etc.), but each iterative financial statement should be equal distance away regarding when it was issued compared to other bits of financial information.


  Step 2: Determine Comparison Methods  

With the financial information in hand, it's time to decide how to analyze the information. There are several primary comparison methods.



First, a direction comparison simply looks at the results from one period and comparing it to another. For example, the total company-wide revenue last quarter might have been $75 million, while the total company-wide revenue this quarter might be $85 million. This type of comparison is most often used to spot high-level, easily identifiable differences.



Second, a variance analysis determines not only the dollar amount but the direction of change for a given general ledger account. As opposed to simply identifying the difference between two numbers, variance analysis strives to determine the company's financial health by identifying directional changes, frequency of directions, or how each financial result compared against an internal target (i.e. a budget).



Last, a horizontal analysis can encompass calculating percentage changes from one period to the next. As a company grows, it often becomes more difficult to sustain the same rate of growth, even if the company grows in pure dollar size. This percentage method is most useful when identifying changes over a longer period of time where there may be significant deviations from the base period to the current period.


  Step 3: Identify Trends and Patterns  

With different bits of calculated information now embedded into the financial statements, it's time to analyze the results. The identification of trends and patterns is driven by asking specific, guided questions. For example, upper management may ask "how well did each geographical region manage COGS over the past four quarters?". This type of question guides itself to selecting certain horizontal analysis methods and specific trends or patterns to seek out.


   Horizontal Analysis vs. Vertical Analysis  

The primary difference between vertical analysis and horizontal analysis is that vertical analysis is focused on the relationships between the numbers in a single reporting period, or one moment in time. Vertical analysis is also known as common size financial statement analysis.



For example, the vertical analysis of an income statement results in every income statement amount being restated as a percent of net sales. If a company's net sales were $2 million, they will be presented as 100% ($2 million divided by $2 million). If the cost of goods sold amount is $1 million, it will be presented as 50% ($1 million divided by sales of $2 million).



On the other hand, horizontal analysis looks at amounts from the financial statements over a horizon of many years. Horizontal analysis is also referred to as trend analysis.



Assume that the base year for analysis is three years earlier. All of the amounts on the balance sheets and the income statements for analysis will be expressed as a percentage of the base year amounts. The amounts from three years earlier are presented as 100% or simply 100. The amounts from the most recent years will be divided by the base year amounts.



For instance, if a most recent year amount was three times as large as the base year, the most recent year will be presented as 300. This type of analysis reveals trends in line items such as cost of goods sold.





Horizontal Analysis

Used to look at line by line account balance changes for specific accounting periods
Compares prior accounting period findings with a more current set of findings
Is often used by management to drive strategic decision-making.



Vertical Analysis

Used to gauge a company's concentration or relationship between certain accounts
Restates account balances to proportional percentages.
Is often used by investors or creditors to evaluate risk and corporate finance profiles.





   Criticism of Horizontal Analysis  

Depending on which accounting period an analyst starts from and how many accounting periods are chosen, the current period can be made to appear unusually good or bad. For example, the current period's profits may appear excellent when only compared with those of the previous quarter but are actually quite poor if compared to the results for the same quarter in the preceding year.






Although a change in accounting policy or the occurrence of a one-time event can impact horizontal analysis, these situations should also be disclosed in the footnotes to the financial statements, in keeping with the principle of consistency.



A common problem with horizontal analysis is that the aggregation of information in the financial statements may have changed over time, so that revenues, expenses, assets, or liabilities may shift between different accounts and, therefore, appear to cause variances when comparing account balances from one period to the next. Indeed, sometimes companies change the way they break down their business segments to make the horizontal analysis of growth and profitability trends more difficult to detect. Accurate analysis can be affected by one-off events and accounting charges.


   Example of Horizontal Analysis  

Horizontal analysis typically shows the changes from the base period in dollar and percentage. For example, a statement that says revenues have increased by 10% this past quarter is based on horizontal analysis. The percentage change is calculated by first dividing the dollar change between the comparison year and the base year by the line item value in the base year, then multiplying the quotient by 100.



For example, assume an investor wishes to invest in company XYZ. The investor may wish to determine how the company grew over the past year. Assume that in company XYZ's base year, it reported net income of $10 million and retained earnings of $50 million.



In the current year, company XYZ reported a net income of $20 million and retained earnings of $52 million. Consequently, it has an increase of $10 million in its net income and $2 million in its retained earnings year over year.



Therefore, company ABC's net income grew by 100% (($20 million - $10 million) / $10 million * 100) year over year, while its retained earnings only grew by 4% (($52 million - $50 million) / $50 million * 100).












 
Period 1 (Base) 
Period 2 (Current Period)
 Change
% Change


Net Income
 $10 million
 $20 million
 + $10 million
 100%


Retained Earnings 
$50 million 
$52 million 
+ $2 million 
 4%



Company XYZ




What Are the Benefits of Horizontal Analysis?
Horizontal analysis is valuable because analysts assess past performance along with the company’s current financial position or growth. Trends emerge, and these can be used to project future performance. Horizontal analysis can also be used to benchmark a company with competitors in the same industry.




How Can an Investor Use Horizontal Analysis?
Investors can use horizontal analysis to determine the trends in a company's financial position and performance over time to determine whether they want to invest in that company. However, investors should combine horizontal analysis with vertical analysis and other techniques to get a true picture of a company's financial health and trajectory.




What Is the Difference Between Horizontal Analysis and Vertical Analysis?
The primary difference between vertical analysis and horizontal analysis is that vertical analysis is focused on the relationships between the numbers in a single reporting period, or one moment in time. Horizontal analysis looks at certain line items, ratios, or factors over several periods to determine the extent of changes and their trends.




When Can Horizontal Analysis Be Used?
Horizontal analysis is most useful when an entity has been established, has strong record-keeping capabilities, and has traceable bits of historical information that can be dug into for more information as needed. This type of analysis is more specific relevant for analyzing the value we maybe selling or acquiring.


   The Bottom Line  

Horizontal analysis is a financial analysis technique used to evaluate a company's performance over time. By comparing prior-period financial results with more current financial results, a company is better able to spot the direction of change in account balances and the magnitude in which that change has occurred.
What Is a Horizontal Channel?  

Horizontal channels are trendlines that connect variable pivot highs and lows to show the price contained between the upper line of resistance and lower line of support. A horizontal channel is also known as a price range or sideways trend.





Key Takeaways

Horizontal channels are trendlines that connect variable pivot highs and lows.In a horizontal channel, buying and selling pressure is equal, and the prevailing price direction is sideways.A horizontal channel provides traders with precise points for entering and exiting trades.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   How a Horizontal Channel Works  

A horizontal channel or sideways trend has the appearance of a rectangle pattern. It consists of at least four contact points. This is because it needs at least two lows to connect, as well as two highs. Buying and selling pressure is equal, and the prevailing direction of price action is sideways. Horizontal channels form in periods of price consolidation.



Price is framed out in a trading range by the pivot highs (resistance) and pivot lows (support). Trend lines are drawn on pivots to give a visual picture of price action. A new high in the price above the horizontal channel is a technical buy signal. A new low in price below the horizontal channel (or rectangle pattern) is a technical sell signal.



There are three types of channels: horizontal, ascending, and descending channels. Channels that are angled up are called ascending channels. Channels that are angled down are called descending channels. Ascending and descending channels are also called trend channels because the price moves more dominantly in one direction.



The horizontal channel is a familiar chart pattern found on every time frame. Buying and selling forces are similar in a horizontal channel until a breakout or breakdown occurs. This type of channel combines several forms of technical analysis to provide traders with precise points for entering and exiting trades, as well as controlling risk.






A horizontal channel is a powerful yet often overlooked chart pattern.



To identify horizontal channels:



Manually look through charts to locate channel patterns.
Utilize stock screeners, such as Finviz.com, or a service that automatically recognizes channel patterns.
Subscribe to a service that provides a daily list of chart patterns.


   Trading a Horizontal Channel  

Horizontal channels provide a clear and systematic way to trade by providing buy and sell points. Here are the trading rules for entering long or short positions.



When the price hits the top of the channel, sell your existing long position or take a short position.
When the price is in the middle of the channel, do nothing if you have no trades open or hold onto your current trades.
When the price hits the bottom of the channel, cover your existing short position or take a long position.


   Horizontal Channel Example  

Elevate Credit, Inc. (ELVT) shares traded within a horizontal channel since gapping lower on Oct. 30, 2018. Over this period, traders had the opportunity to short sell the stock at the channel’s upper resistance line three times (red arrows).



Conversely, traders had the chance to buy the stock at the channel’s lower support line on three occasions (green arrows). Stop-loss orders would sit just above the channel’s upper resistance line for short positions and just beneath the lower support line for long positions, while profits would be taken at the opposite side of the channel.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021
What Is Horizontal Equity?  

Horizontal equity is an economic theory that states that individuals with similar income and assets should pay the same amount in taxes. Horizontal equity should apply to individuals considered equal regardless of the tax system in place. The more neutral a tax system is the more horizontally equitable it is considered to be.



This can be contrasted with vertical equity, a method of collecting income tax in which the tax rate one is subject to increases with the amount of earned income. The principle behind vertical equity is that those who have the ability to pay more taxes should contribute more than those who are not.


   Understanding Horizontal Equity  

The basis behind the theory of horizontal equity is that people should be treated the same by imposing the same level of income tax to people in the same income group. Vertical equity, on the other hand, is associated with the redistribution of wealth and encourages a tax system in which high income earners, or those with access to more resources, pay more tax than low income earners.



Horizontal equity proposes a tax system that does not give preferential treatment to certain individuals and companies. In effect, it is related to the concept of tax neutrality as it protects taxpayers against arbitrary discrimination so that if two individuals are equally well off before taxes, then they should be equally well off after taxes.



Under the horizontal equity principle, some economists use annual income as the measure of income that groups taxpayers as equals. Other economists believe that a taxpayer’s lifetime income is a better yardstick. One's judgment about whether taxing income or consumption is consistent with horizontal equity depends on which definition of income they use.



Horizontal equity in healthcare refers to equity between people with the same healthcare needs. In effect, it acts as a measure of the health system by proposing that equal healthcare be provided for those who are the same in a relevant respect, such as having the same need."﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Horizontal equity is a principle of income tax collection that argues that everybody earning the same income should be subject to the same rate of taxation.As such, horizontal equity discounts deductions, tax credits, incentives, and loopholes that can lower ones effective tax rate even if they have the same annual income as somebody else.Horizontal equity is favored by some economists because it is considered to be a neutral system of taxation, and thus more fair.


   Example of Horizontal Equity  

For example, if two taxpayers earn $50,000, under horizontal equity, they should both be taxed at the same rate since they both have the same wealth or fall within the same income bracket. However, horizontal equity is hard to achieve in a tax system, like that of the U.S., with loopholes, deductions, credits, and incentives, because the presence of any tax break means that similar individuals do not pay the same rate. For example, by allowing mortgage interest payments to be deducted from income tax, governments create a difference in tax payments between two tax filers who may otherwise be considered economically similar.



Following our example above, if due to the mortgage interest deduction for home ownership, one of the taxpayers pays a lower amount of tax than the second taxpayer with equal income, then horizontal equity is not achieved.
What Is Horizontal Integration?  

Horizontal integration is the acquisition of a business operating at the same level of the value chain in the same industry—that is, they make or offer similar goods or services. This is in contrast to vertical integration, where firms expand into upstream or downstream activities, which are at different stages of production.





Key Takeaways

Horizontal integration is a business strategy in which one company grows its operations at the same level in an industry. Horizontal integrations help companies grow in size and revenue, expand into new markets, diversify product offerings, and reduce competition.Disadvantages of horizontal integration include regulatory scrutiny, the reduction of choices for consumers, less internal flexibility, and the potential to destroy value rather than create it.A company can horizontally integrate by merging with another company, acquiring another company, or internally expanding its operations. A contrasting approach to horizontal integration is vertical integration, in which a company acquires a firm operating in the same industry, but at a different stage of the production process.


   Understanding Horizontal Integration  

Horizontal integration is a competitive strategy that can create economies of scale, increase market power over distributors and suppliers, improve product differentiation and help businesses expand their market or enter new markets. By merging, two businesses may be able to produce more revenue than they would have been able to do independently.



However, when horizontal mergers succeed, it is often at the expense of consumers, especially if the merger reduces competition. For this reason, horizontal mergers are heavily scrutinized by regulators, to see if they violate antitrust laws.



Indeed, the real motive behind a lot of horizontal mergers is that companies want to reduce competition—either from potential new entrants, established rivals, or firms offering substitute or alternative goods.






These are three of the five competitive forces that shape every industry, as identified in Porter’s Five Forces model. The other two forces, the power of suppliers and of customers, drive vertical integration.


   Types of Horizontal Integration  

There are three primary forms of horizontal integration: mergers, acquisitions, and internal expansions.


  Merger  

When two companies merge, two separate entities create a new, joint organization. The brand of one of those two companies is usually retained, though the composition of operations and personnel is shared between both of the former individual companies. In addition, the product line of both companies is often similar and equally competitive in the market.



In a merger, both companies are striving to become a larger presence in their existing market. Most mergers are of similar firms, where integration of the two companies may be seamless due to the similarities between what the two former companies used to do.


  Acquisition  

Similar to a merger, an acquisition occurs when one company outright takes over the operations of another company. Though the two companies technically join together, one company remains in control. The acquiring company's staff, executives, and operations often remain in place, while the acquired company's resources are integrated as management sees fit.



Companies often pursue acquisitions in an attempt to get something specific. For example, Microsoft specifically wanted to enhance its presence in the video game market. Therefore, it acquired Activision Blizzard in January 2022. This example of an acquisition shows an often deliberate strategy for a specific sector in which a company wants to achieve a very specific goal.


  Internal Expansion  

Companies can also embark on horizontal integration by making more conscious allocations of internal capital. Through internal expansion, a company simply chooses to strategically change course and apply more resources in a different way. For example, a restaurant can expand to offer catering companies, or a beverage manufacturer may branch off to make food products.



In these examples, a company continues to operate how it use to. However, instead of committing capital to acquire an external company or transition with a merging firm, it decides to deploy those resources in-house to train staff, buy equipment, make capital investments, and grow a new branch of operations on its own.






The M&A market was as hot as ever in 2021. According to McKinsey, the total value of larger deals (valued greater than $25 million) for the year peaked at $5.9 trillion, up 37% from 2020.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Horizontal Integration  
  Advantages  

Companies engage in horizontal integration to benefit from synergies. There may be economies of scale or cost synergies in marketing; research and development (R&D); production; and distribution. Or there may be economies of scale, which make the simultaneous manufacturing of different products more cost-effective than manufacturing them on their own.



Procter & Gamble’s 2005 acquisition of Gillette is a good example of a horizontal merger that realized economies of scope. Because both companies produced hundreds of hygiene-related products from razors to toothpaste, the merger reduced the marketing and product development costs per product.



Synergies can also be realized by combining products or markets. Horizontal integration is often driven by marketing imperatives. Diversifying product offerings may provide cross-selling opportunities and increase each business’ market. A retail business that sells clothes may decide to also offer accessories or it might merge with a similar business in another country to gain a foothold there and avoid having to build a distribution network from scratch.


  Disadvantages  

Like any merger, horizontal integration does not always yield the synergies and added value that was expected. It can even result in negative synergies which reduce the overall value of the business, if the larger firm becomes too unwieldy and inflexible to manage, or if the merged firms experience problems caused by vastly different leadership styles and company cultures.



There are regulatory issues as well. If horizontal mergers within the same industry concentrate market share among a small number of companies, it creates an oligopoly. If one company ends up with a dominant market share, it has a monopoly. If a merger threatens competitors or seems to drastically restrict the market and reduce consumer choices, it could attract the attention of the Federal Trade Commission.




Horizontal Integration

Advantages

May result in efficiencies, economies of scale, or synergies not otherwise possible
May reduce company risk through product and market diversification
May increase profitability through new cross-selling opportunities
May result in decreased costs due to better processes and greater expertise



Disadvantages

May reduce value or synergy if merger is not performed successfully
May expose inflexibilities that won't be resolved by the merger
May result in a clash of management styles with multiple leadership teams coming together
May result in regulatory issues if a dominant market share is formed





   Horizontal Integration vs. Vertical Integration  

Both horizontal integration and vertical integration are the practice of a company expanding its current operations. However, each process aims to have a different strategic outcome. Horizontal integration occurs when a company aims to remain within its current part of the supply chain. The company often wants to enhance its existing product or get a larger share of the market.



Vertical integration is the strategy of expanding across the supply to get better at processes the company is currently not involved in. For example, a manufacturer may acquire a raw materials distributor to have better control over the quantity, pricing, or timing of when it gets raw goods. The company is expanding from its current position in the manufacturing process and performing a backward vertical integration.



Vertical integration is often undertaken to have better control over a long process, while horizontal integration is more suitable for a company wanting to become more niche for something specific. Horizontal integration often entails similar companies coming together, while vertical integration often entails different companies related to a similar product coming together.



The ultimate goal of vertical integration is to become independent of suppliers and control more aspects of the supply chain. On the other hand, horizontal integration strives to eliminate competitors, grow in market size, and create economies of scale.


   Examples of Horizontal Integration  

Many mergers that hit news headlines are examples of horizontal integration. If a company acquires or merges with another company and both firms are in a very similar industry, it is most likely an example of horizontal integration. Specific examples include:



JetBlue's 2022 merger with Spirit AirlinesMarriott's 2016 acquisition of Starwood Hotel & ResortsAnheuser-Busch InBev's 2016 acquisition of SABMiller (brewers)AstraZeneca's 2015 acquisition of ZS Pharma (biotech)Volkswagen’s 2012 acquisition of Porsche (automobiles)Facebook Inc.'s (now Meta Inc.'s) 2012 acquisition of Instagram (social media)Disney's 2006 acquisition of Pixar (entertainment media)Mittal Steel’s 2006 acquisition of Arcelor (steel)




What Is the Difference Between Horizontal Integration and Vertical Integration?
Horizontal integration is the strategy of acquiring other companies that reside along a similar area of the supply chain. For example, a manufacturer may acquiring a competing manufacturing firm to better enhance its process, labor force, and equipment.Vertical integration occurs when a company acquires a company outside of their current position along the supply chain. For example, a manufacturer may acquire a retail company so that the manufacturer can not only control the process of making the good but also selling the good as well.




What Is the Main Advantage of Horizontal Integration?
The main advantage of horizontal integration is the strategically focused decision to penetrate a specific section of a supply chain. Horizontal integration allows a company to potentially acquire a competitor, gain greater insight into the market, expand its product line, or create economies of scale. Horizontal integration is a way for a company to simply do better at what it was doing before.




Why Is Horizontal Integration Important?
Horizontal integration is important because it allows a company to grow, expand, diversify, and gather a larger market presence. Horizontal integration further enhances a company's current position in the market and, instead of transitioning to widely different aspects of the supply chain, it allows a company to become more competitive in the space it was already operating in.


   The Bottom Line  

Companies looking to grow in size, increase revenue, expand to new product lines, and diversify operations may consider pursuing horizontal integration. Horizontal integration occurs when similar companies merge in the same stage of a supply chain merge. As opposed to a vertical integration which helps a company shift to earlier or later in the supply chain, horizontal integration further solidifies a company's current position along a manufacturing process.
What Is a Horizontal Line?  

In technical analysis, a horizontal line is often drawn on a price chart to highlight areas of support or resistance.



In geometric analysis, a horizontal line proceeds parallel to the x-axis. Put another way, on a perfectly horizontal line, all values on the line will have the same y-value.





Key Takeaways

A horizontal line is commonly used in technical analysis to mark areas of support or resistance.A horizontal line runs parallel to the x-axis.In technical analysis, the horizontal line is typically drawn along a swing high, or a series of them, where each high in the series stopped at a similar level. The same concept applies to swing lows.


   Understanding a Horizontal Line  

Horizontal lines are commonly used in technical analysis to highlight areas of support, where the price stopped falling and then bounced on prior occasions, or resistance, which is where the price stopped rising and then proceeded to fall on prior occasions.



The horizontal line is drawn by connecting similar swing lows in price to create a horizontal support line. For a horizontal resistance line, similar swing highs are connected.



The horizontal line is then used for analytical or trading purposes. For example, if the price of an asset is moving between support and resistance horizontal lines then the price is considered to be range-bound.



A move below the support horizontal line could indicate a further price decline, but if support holds and the price bounces higher then prices could be forthcoming. The same concepts apply to a resistance horizontal line. If the price moves above resistance, higher prices could be forthcoming. If the price reaches resistance and then starts to decline, the horizontal line has held and traders will watch for lower prices.



In more simple terms, a horizontal line on any chart is where the y-axis values are equal. If it has been drawn to show a series of highs in the data, a data point moving above the horizontal line would indicate a rise in the y-axis value over recent values in the data sample.


   Fundamental Horizontal Analysis  

Horizontal analysis is used to compare values or prices over time. This is an aspect of fundamental analysis in which an analyst will compare various earnings reports and statements over time. In this kind of analysis, time functions as the horizontal x-axis and allows analysts to calculate percentage changes over time, a useful tool for representing the degree of change.



Horizontal analysis looks at the trend of financial statements over multiple periods, using a specified base period, and typically shows the changes from the base period in dollars and percentages.



The percentage change is calculated by first dividing the dollar change between the comparison year and the base year by the item value in the base year, then multiplying the quotient by 100. For example, when you hear someone saying that revenues increased by 10% this past quarter, that person is using horizontal analysis.



Horizontal analysis can be used on any item in a company's financials, from revenues to earnings per share (EPS), and is useful when comparing the performance of various companies.


   A Horizontal Line as it Relates to Supply and Demand Curves  

Supply and demand curves are drawn with price on the vertical axis of the graph and quantity demanded on the horizontal axis. When looking at supply and demand curves, a perfectly horizontal line indicates that an item has perfect elasticity, or that its demand is immediately responsive to changes in price. When the price of a perfectly elastic good or service increases above the market price, the quantity demanded falls to zero. With perfect elasticity, consumers simply are not willing to spend more than a specific price for a good or service.


   Example of How to Use the Horizontal Line in Technical Analysis  

Drawing a horizontal line is one of the simplest forms of technical analysis, but it also provides important information. On the chart below, a horizontal line is drawn on the SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) exchange traded fund (ETF).












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



An uptrend is when a price makes higher swing highs and higher swing lows. Therefore, a horizontal line can highlight when price is making a new high, in this case, thus showing signs of an uptrend. On the SPY chart above, the price is moving above the horizontal line indicating an uptrend. If the price falls back below the horizontal line, it could warn that uptrend has failed and lower prices may be forthcoming.



In this sense, the horizontal line acts like a line in the sand, where moving above the line is bullish.


   The Difference Between a Horizontal Line and a Trendline  

Both these terms could refer to the same thing: drawn lines on a chart. While a horizontal line is specifically horizontal, a trendline is typically angled and drawn along rising swing lows during a price uptrend or drawn along dropping swing highs during a downtrend.


   Limitations of Using a Horizontal Line in Technical Analysis  

A horizontal line is not an actual barrier for price. It is a technical tool which may help traders determine whether they should be more bearish or bullish.



Where a horizontal line is drawn is subjective. Not all traders may place the horizontal line at the same price.



At highly important prices, where a horizontal line may be drawn, it is possible the price will whipsaw around it. This could cause confusion or some potential losing trades until the price makes a more decisive move above or below the line.
What Is a Horizontal Market?  

A horizontal market is diversified so that the products created are able to meet the needs of more than one industry. A horizontal market is one in which the output good or service is widely used and in wide demand, and so the producers bear little risk in demand for their output. Producers do, however, typically face a great amount of competition within the industry.





Key Takeaways

Horizontal markets are those that engage in broad, diversified, and multi-sector production and consumption.Conglomerates, who operate in several market segments and attract a broad customer base are examples of operating in a horizontal market.This can be contrasted with vertical markets, which specialize in a particular product or focus on a particular niche demographic.


   Understanding Horizontal Markets  

The profitability for companies producing goods in a horizontal market is determined more by internal, rather than external, factors, as their products are commonly used. An example of a horizontal market is the demand for pens across any and all industries. Pens are used in basically all industries, and so success or failure for pen producers is determined by internal decisions and factors, rather than macro events.



Businesses that operate in a horizontal market system seek to appeal to a wide demographic that is not really niche. For example, a reseller of general office furniture is probably not going to target (sell to) other companies that specialize in office furniture. Rather, they’re going to target all types of businesses that maintain offices—accounting firms, travel agencies, insurance agencies, etc. Their market is anyone who needs office furniture.



Examples of companies in horizontal markets include conglomerates and diversified manufacturing companies.


   Horizontal Markets vs. Vertical Markets  

Vertical markets are the opposite of horizontal markets in that they focus on a very niche sector or demographic. For example, this could include a manufacturer of solar panel technology that produces nothing else. These types of firms usually sell their goods to solar contractors and installers. In other words, those they sell to are usually businesses that compete against one another.





Horizontal Markets

Defined by a demographic feature that applies to different kinds of businesses
Broader than vertical markets
Usually cooperative and seeking joint opportunities
An opportunity to market to a general audience



Vertical Markets

A group of businesses that share the same industry
Always specific and cannot cross industries
Often competing against each other
An opportunity to market to a specific audience





   Special Considerations  

Although the types of markets have clear differences, a business's operations can often be characterized as serving both horizontal and vertical markets at the same time. For example, a shoe company can market horizontally to the area in which it is located. It could also market vertically to anyone considering a new pair of shoes. A children’s book publishing company can market horizontally to literate people or vertically to children and parents.



Knowing which horizontal and vertical markets your company wants to serve can be helpful to its marketing success. By defining your markets, you can better advertise and serve your markets’ needs, whether generally or specifically.
What Is a Horizontal Merger?  

A horizontal merger is a merger or business consolidation that occurs between firms that operate in the same industry. Competition tends to be higher among companies operating in the same space, meaning synergies and potential gains in market share are much greater for merging firms.



This type of merger occurs frequently because of larger companies attempting to create more efficient economies of scale. Conversely, a vertical merger takes place when firms from different parts of the supply chain consolidate to make the production process more efficient or cost-effective.





key takeaways

Horizontal mergers occur when companies of the same industry merge.They often result in a way to eliminate competition by creating one powerful company instead of two competitors.Horizontal mergers can greatly increase revenues, as the combined companies have access to a greater variety of products or services.


   How Horizontal Mergers Work  

A horizontal merger can help a company gain competitive advantages. For example, if one company sells products similar to the other, the combined sales of a horizontal merger will give the new company a greater share of the market.



If one company manufactures products complementary to the other, the newly merged company may offer a wider range of products to customers. Merging with a company offering different products to a different sector of the marketplace helps the new company diversify its offerings and enter new markets.


   Horizontal Merger vs. Vertical Merger  

The main objective of a vertical merger is to improve a company’s efficiency or reducing costs. A vertical merger occurs when two companies previously selling to or buying from each other combine under one ownership. The businesses are typically at different stages of production. For example, a manufacturer might merge with a distributor selling its products.



A vertical merger can help secure access to important supplies and reduce overall costs by eliminating the need for finding suppliers, negotiating deals, and paying full market prices. A vertical merger can improve efficiency by synchronizing production and supply between the two companies and assuring the availability of needed items. When companies combine in a vertical merger, competitors may face difficulty obtaining important supplies, increasing their barriers to entry and potentially reducing their profits.


   Example of Horizontal Merger and Vertical Merger  
  Horizontal Merger  

In September 2022, Adobe acquired Figma, a leading web-first collaborate design platform. According to Adobe, the combination of the two firms would "usher in a new era of collaborative creativity."



At the time of the merger, Figma's mission was to pioneer product design solutions on the web. Though Adobe also interacted with the digital experiences sector, the company's business was a bit different. Figma was specially for web and app design, while Photoshop could only design these as prototypes. By combining companies, Adobe gained access to a previously inaccessible market.


  Vertical Merger: TD Bank and First Horizon  

In January 2022, Microsoft announced the acquisition of Activision Blizzard. Microsoft was already owner of the successful Xbox brand; the acquisition poised Microsoft to further deliver and reap benefits from providing strong, exclusive content to video gamers.



Much like a manufacturer acquiring a supplier, Satya Nadella stated that Microsoft was investing in Activision Blizzard "to usher in a new era of gaming that puts player and creators first and makes gaming safe, inclusive, and accessible for all." The deal would boost Microsoft's Game Pass portfolio by providing subscribers stronger, more diverse content. Note that as of July 2023, the acquisition has yet to secure FTC approval.


   Special Considerations  

A horizontal merger of two companies already excelling in the industry may be a better investment than putting a lot of time and resources into developing the products or services separately. A horizontal merger can increase a company’s revenue by offering an additional range of products to existing customers.






Horizontal mergers lead to fewer options for consumers to choose from.



The business may be able to sell to different geographical territories if one of the pre-merger companies has distribution facilities or customers in areas not covered by the other company. A horizontal merger also helps reduce the threat of competition in the marketplace. In addition, the newly created company may have greater resources and market share than its competitors, letting the business exercise greater control over pricing.




What Are Some Potential Drawbacks of Horizontal Mergers?
Horizontal mergers can lead to reduced competition, which may result in higher prices, decreased innovation, and fewer choices for consumers. Additionally, integrating two companies with different corporate cultures and operations can pose social challenges, and there may be regulatory scrutiny to ensure the merger does not harm competition.




How Do Horizontal Mergers Affect Market Competition?
Horizontal mergers can have a significant impact on market competition. By reducing the number of competitors in the industry, the merged entity may gain increased market power, potentially leading to higher prices, reduced product differentiation, and limited choices for consumers. Regulatory authorities often assess the potential effects on competition before approving horizontal mergers to ensure they do not create monopolistic or anti-competitive market conditions.




Can Vertical Mergers Benefit Small Businesses?
Vertical mergers can have mixed effects on small businesses. On one hand, small businesses may benefit from increased access to distribution channels or improved relationships with larger vertically integrated companies. However, vertical mergers can also create challenges if small businesses face increased competition or encounter barriers to accessing certain markets controlled by the merged entity.




Do Vertical Mergers Encourage Innovation?
Vertical mergers can have both positive and negative effects on innovation. On one hand, integrating different stages of the value chain may foster collaboration and information sharing, potentially leading to improved product development and innovation. On the other hand, vertical mergers can reduce the incentive for companies to innovate if they gain significant market power and face less competitive pressure.


   The Bottom Line  

Horizontal mergers involve the combination of companies operating in the same industry and at the same stage of the production or distribution process. These mergers aim to increase market share, eliminate competition, and achieve economies of scale. On the other hand, vertical mergers involve companies operating at different stages of the production or distribution chain. They integrate either with suppliers (backward integration) or customers (forward integration) to streamline operations, gain control over the value chain, and potentially achieve cost savings and synergies.
What Is a Horizontal Spread?  

A horizontal spread (more commonly known as a calendar spread) is an options or futures strategy created with simultaneous long and short positions in the derivative on the same underlying asset and the same strike price, but with different expiration months.





Key Takeaways

Horizontal spread is a simultaneous long and short derivative position on the same underlying asset and strike price but with a different expiration.Horizontal (calendar) spreads allow traders to construct a trade that minimizes the effects of time.Futures spreads using this strategy can focus on expected short-term price fluctuations.Both options and futures underlying contracts create a de-facto leveraged position.


   Understanding Horizontal Spread  

The goal of a horizontal spread is usually to profit from changes in volatility over time or exploit fluctuation in pricing from short-term events. The spread can also be used as a method for creating significant leverage with limited risk.



To create the horizontal spread, a trader first specifies an option or futures contract to buy and then sells a similar contract that has a shorter expiration date (all other features are the same). The two identical contracts, separated only by their expiration date, create a difference in price, a difference which the market accounts for as time value—specifically the amount of time that differs between the two contracts.



In options markets this distinction is important because the time value of each option contract is a key component to its pricing. This spread neutralizes the expense of that time value as much as possible.



In futures markets, where time value is not a specific factor in pricing, the difference in price represents the expectations of change in pricing that market participants think is likely to occur between the two differing expiration dates.



While horizontal or calendar spreads are widely used in the futures market, much of the analysis is focused on the options market where volatility changes are crucial to pricing. Because volatility and time value are tightly connected in options pricing, this kind of spread minimizes the effect of time and produces a greater opportunity to profit from increases in volatility over the time of the trade.






Short spreads can be created by reversing the configuration (buy the contract with nearer expiration and sell it with a more distant expiration). This variation seeks to profit from decreases in volatility.



The long trade takes advantage of how near- and long-dated options act when time and volatility change. An increase in implied volatility would have a positive impact on this strategy because longer-term options are more sensitive to changes in volatility (higher vega). The caveat is that the two options can and probably will trade at different implied volatility measures, but it is rare that the movement of volatility and the effect on the price of the horizontal option spread act differently from what would be expected.


   Horizontal Spread Example  

With Exxon Mobil stock trading at $89.05 in late January, 2018:



Sell the February 95 call for $0.97 ($97 for one contract).Buy the March 95 call for $2.22 ($222 for one contract).



Net cost (debit) $1.25 ($125 for one contract). Trader receives $0.97 while paying $2.22.



Since this is a debit spread, the maximum loss is the amount paid for the strategy. The option sold is closer to expiration and therefore has a lower price than the option bought, yielding a net debit or cost. In this scenario, the trader is hoping to capture an increase of value associated with a rising price (up to but not beyond $95) between purchase and February expiration.



The ideal market move for profit would be for the price to become more volatile in the near term, but to generally rise, closing just below 95 as of the February expiration. This allows the February option contract to expire worthless, and still allow the trader to profit from upward moves up until the March expiration.



Note that were the trader to simply buy the March expiration, the cost would have been $222 dollars, but by employing this spread, the cost required to make and hold this trade was only $125, making the trade one of greater margin and less risk.



Depending on which strike price and contract type are chosen, the strategy can be used to profit from a neutral, bullish, or bearish market trend.
What Is a Horizontal Well?  

A horizontal well is a type of directional drilling technique where an oil or gas well is dug at an angle of at least eighty degrees to a vertical wellbore. This technique has become increasingly common and productive in recent years. Operators use it to retrieve oil and natural gas in situations in which the shape of the reservoir is abnormal or difficult to access.





Key Takeaways

A horizontal well is a type of directional drilling technique.Operators use it to retrieve oil and natural gas in situations in which the shape of the reservoir is abnormal or difficult to access.It permits access to subsurface reservoirs that may not be accessible from directly above. 


   How a Horizontal Well Works  

Horizontal wells took a more prominent role in fossil fuel extraction during the 2010s. As technology has developed, horizontal drilling has lowered costs and improved the efficiency of oil and natural gas extraction, especially in the U.S.



The emergence of horizontal wells has been facilitated by two components of the drilling apparatus:



The mud motor is a pump mechanism that bores into the earth, powered by a supply of drilling fluid, known as mud. Adjustments to the configuration of the mud motor allow it to direct a bit in non-vertical directions.The measurement while drilling device (MWD), which allows for real-time analysis of subsurface conditions and provides a target for horizontal drilling.



As well, modern drilling techniques allow the use of drill bits that can bend. This bending, accomplished through the use of hydraulic jets, lets engineers adjust the direction of the drilling to a degree.



Horizontal drilling has become a more popular technique as computer-aided technology has become more common. The angle of the drill bit in use can be adjusted by a computer using global positioning signals (GPS) to pinpoint the location of the bit in relation to the oil or gas field.


   Horizontal Drilling vs. Vertical Drilling  

Horizontal drilling has become a valuable technique in recent years due to certain advantages over traditional vertical drilling. It permits access to subsurface reservoirs that may not be accessible from directly above. Horizontal drilling also allows one drilling pad, or kickoff point, to explore a broader underground area. 



Horizontal drilling can also be used to seal off—or relieve pressure on—an out of control well by drilling an adjacent relief well. Finally, beyond the purpose of oil extraction, horizontal drilling can be useful in the construction of underground pipelines or utility lines that need to travel beneath a river or an existing building.


   Horizontal Drilling vs. Hydraulic Fracturing  

Horizontal wells have proven particularly useful as a component of the hydraulic fracturing process. Fracking helps extract natural gas and oil from huge shale reservoirs in the U.S. These deposits tend to be inaccessible to traditional vertical drilling due to the impermeability of the shale formations.



Instead, oil and gas companies drill horizontally into the shale and pump a compound of water, chemicals, and guar gum—also known as mud—into the shale. The force of these injections fractures the rock, creating openings through which petroleum and natural gas flow.
What Is the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund?  

The Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund is also known as Part A of Medicare, the health insurance program for people aged 65 and older in the United States. The program is financed through payroll taxes from current workers and employers and taxes on Social Security benefits.



This trust fund is overseen by a board of trustees that reports annually regarding its financial status. Due to changes in legislation and demographics in the United States, the fund is projected to be depleted in 2031.





Key Takeaways

The Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund is Part A of Medicare and covers hospital stays, hospices, and skilled nursing facilities.The Fund is something that every worker pays into, then benefits from at retirement.Given changing demographics and regulations, the trust fund is expected to be depleted by 2031.


   Understanding the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund  

The Hospital Insurance Trust is funded by revenue from Social Security benefits and payroll taxes from all workers in the United States, not just from beneficiaries. The program is something all workers pay into and then benefit from when they reach retirement age or are unable to work due to disability. Medicare Part A helps pay for inpatient hospital services, hospice care, skilled nursing facility, and home health services.


   Medicare Benefits  

Managed by the U.S. government, the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund or Medicare Part A pays for healthcare services like hospital stays and hospice care for Medicare recipients. Medicare is a government-funded health insurance program for those 65 and older, disabled people, and people with certain health conditions specified by the government.



Medicare Parts B, C, and D pay for healthcare services not covered by the hospital insurance trust fund, such as doctor visits, lab tests, and prescription drugs, and are funded through premium payments from beneficiaries.






The Initial Enrollment Period to apply for Medicare lasts for seven months, starting three months before enrollees turn 65 and ending three months after the month they turn 65.


   Funding the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund  

Analysts are concerned that the U.S. economy will not support the hospital trust within Medicare in the future because of changes in population demographics as the birth rate decreases and people live longer.



According to the 2023 report from the Social Security and Medicare Boards of Trustees, it is projected that the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund will be able to pay 100% of total scheduled benefits until 2031, after which the fund’s reserves will be depleted and continuing program income will be sufficient to pay 89% of benefits. 



The estimates are based on several factors, including utilization rates of skilled nursing facilities, overall levels of worker productivity, and recent trends in healthcare costs relative to individual incomes.




How Much Does Medicare Part A Cost?
For those who receive benefits from the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, or Medicare Part A, most people don’t pay a Part A premium because they paid Medicare taxes while they were employed. However, those who don't qualify for free Part A may pay up to $506 each month. 




How Do I Know What Benefits I Can Receive From Medicare?
To understand the benefits and costs of Medicare Part A, individuals can visit Medicare.gov or call 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). 




Will the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund Be Depleted by 2031?
According to the 2023 report from the Social Security and Medicare Boards of Trustees, it is projected that the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund will be able to pay 100% of the total scheduled benefits until 2031. However, the Congressional Budget Office projects the Fund will be solvent until 2033.


   The Bottom Line  

The Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund is also known as Medicare Part A, part of the United States health insurance program for those 65 and older. The Fund pays for healthcare services like hospital stays and hospice care for Medicare recipients. It is overseen by a board of trustees and is projected to be depleted in 2031.
What Is a Hospital Revenue Bond?  

A hospital revenue bond is a type of municipal bond that finances the construction of new facilities or upgrades for existing hospitals and is secured by the revenues that hospitals receive in the course of their normal operations.





Key Takeaways

A hospital revenue bond is a type of municipal bond that finances the construction of new facilities or upgrades for existing hospitals and is secured by the revenue that hospitals receive in the course of their normal operations.Hospital revenue bonds typically command higher yields due to their default risk being higher given their inability to raise revenue through taxes like other municipal bonds.Income received from a hospital revenue bond may be exempt from state, local, and federal taxation.


   Understanding Hospital Revenue Bonds  

Hospital revenue bonds can also be used to purchase new equipment for these facilities. Generally, bondholders receive payment only after paying the expenses of running the hospital is complete which can create risk for bondholders if the hospital is not as profitable as anticipated.



Hospital revenue bonds are considered to be among the riskiest types of municipal bonds. As their name suggests, revenue bonds are generally backed by the revenue that the specific project can generate. If this revenue is insufficient, municipalities have no obligation to use other funds to pay back bondholders.



Unlike municipalities, hospitals cannot tax residents as a way to cover expenses or repay debt. This inability to raise revenue through taxes means the hospital revenue bonds typically command higher yields. The high-yield is due to their default risk being higher than a general obligation bond.



Rating firms evaluate a revenue bond issue and assign a ranking indicating the probability that the obligation pays out on schedule. Hospital revenue bonds that are reliant on government-funded programs such as Medicaid and Medicare are a higher-risk investment. Uncertainty surrounding possible changes to the healthcare market and insurance laws create an unpredictable environment for hospitals and the bonds used to support them. Still, when there is a decrease in supply in the municipal bond market, investors are more likely to consider hospital bonds that present a higher risk.


   Tax Considerations for Hospital Revenue Bonds  

Income received from a hospital revenue bond may be exempt from state, local, and federal taxation. However, this varies by location and the impact of current tax law, which is subject to change. A tax plan introduced by Congress in 2017 initially included an amendment that would prevent hospitals from issuing tax-exempt bonds. This plan prompted many hospitals to rush to seek funding before the proposed legislation could take effect.



Several major hospital groups strongly objected to the proposed change, warning that eliminating the tax break would result in higher borrowing costs. The increased cost would in turn limit, or reduce, their ability to expand, renovate, or build new facilities which would be detrimental to the local communities. The final tax plan dropped the proposed legislation.


   Other Kinds of Municipal Revenue Bonds  

Revenue bonds have backing from the money streams created by a specific project. Other types of revenue bonds are issued by municipalities may fund projects like toll rolls, airports or harbors, public housing projects, or public utilities. These bonds have a higher risk than GO bonds, but because of that, they can sometimes pay a higher rate of interest.



Revenue bonds also contrast to general obligation bonds (GO), which are debt obligations repaid through a variety of tax sources. Holders of GO bonds must rely on the full credit of the issuing municipality as no assets are used as collateral.



For example, in the case of an airport revenue bond, the municipality issues a bond to build a new terminal. The bond depends on the income generated from airport activities to back the debt. Once completed, airport landing fees, terminal rents, concession revenue, parking charges, and other income streams will generate revenue that the city will use to pay off the bond.
What Is a Hostile Bid?  

A hostile bid is a specific type of takeover bid that bidders present directly to the target firm's shareholders because management is not in favor of the deal. Bidders generally present their hostile bids through a tender offer. In this scenario, the acquiring company offers to purchase the common shares of the target at a substantial premium.





Key Takeaways

Hostile bids are takeover offers taken directly to shareholders because management has rejected the offer.A hostile bid can spark a proxy battle in some cases, where the acquiring company looks to replace the management of the target company.A friendly bid is the opposite of a hostile bid, where management accepts a takeover offer.


   Understanding Hostile Bids  

Hostile bids can lead to major changes in the organizational structure. If a board pursues defensive action to stop the merger, a proxy fight can occur. In this scenario, the acquirer will often attempt to convince the target shareholders to replace management. Certain investors, such as activist investors, are known for using hostile bids to force takeovers and buyouts. For example, activist investor Carl Ichan made several hostile bids for Clorox in 2011.


  Soliciting Shareholders  

The acquirer and the target company use a variety of solicitation methods to influence shareholder votes. Shareholders receive a Schedule 14A with financial and other information on the target company and the terms of the proposed acquisition. In many cases, the acquiring company hires an outside proxy solicitation firm that compiles a list of shareholders and contacts them to state the acquirer's case.



The firm can call or provide written information, detailing the reasons the acquirer is attempting to make fundamental changes and why the deal could create more shareholder wealth in the long term.



Individual shareholders or stock brokerages submit their votes to the entity assigned to aggregate the information (e.g., a stock transfer agent or brokerage). The corporate secretary of the target company receives all votes before the shareholders' meeting. Proxy solicitors may scrutinize and challenge the votes if they are unclear.


   Hostile Bid vs. Friendly Bid  

Unlike a hostile bid, a friendly bid is approved by management. An offer that's accepted by management and the board of directors is considered a friendly bid, as things are amicable. In this case, the acquiring company generally has more access to the company and relevant information. On the flip side, a company undertaking a hostile takeover may have to do so with little internal information about the company as the management has been unwelcoming.


   Example of a Hostile Bid  

In October 2010, French pharmaceutical company Sanofi-Aventis offered shareholders of U.S. biotech company Genzyme $69 a share after being rebuffed multiple times by Genzyme management. Simultaneously, Sanofi CEO Chris Viehbacher sent Genzyme chief executive Henri Termeer a letter in which he claimed to have the support of Genzyme shareholders possessing more than 50% of outstanding shares.



Shareholders were given until December 2010 to accept Sanofi's offer. As many analysts predicted, the majority of shareholders considered Sanofi's offer low and the bid was unsuccessful.



A deal was finally approved by Genzyme's board of directors in February 2011, when the company agreed to a price of $74 a share plus contingent value rights tied to the performance of Genzyme's experimental multiple sclerosis drug Lemtrada.
What Is a Hostile Takeover?  

The term hostile takeover refers to the acquisition of one company by another corporation against the wishes of the former. The company being acquired in a hostile takeover is called the target company while the one executing the takeover is called the acquirer. In a hostile takeover, the acquirer goes directly to the company's shareholders or fights to replace management to get the acquisition approved. Approval of a hostile takeover is generally completed through either a tender offer or a proxy fight.





Key Takeaways

A hostile takeover occurs when an acquiring company attempts to take over a target company against the wishes of the target company's management.An acquiring company can achieve a hostile takeover by going directly to the target company's shareholders or fighting to replace its management.Hostile takeovers may take place if a company believes a target is undervalued or when activist shareholders want changes in a company.A tender offer and a proxy fight are two methods in achieving a hostile takeover.Target companies can use certain defenses, such as the poison pill or a golden parachute, to ward off hostile takeovers.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Hostile Takeovers  

Factors playing into a hostile takeover from the acquisition side often coincide with those of any other takeover, such as believing that a company may be significantly undervalued or wanting access to a company's brand, operations, technology, or industry foothold. Hostile takeovers may also be strategic moves by activist investors looking to effect change on a company's operations.



The target company's management does not approve of the deal in a hostile takeover. This type of bid occurs when an entity attempts to take control of a firm without the consent or cooperation of the target firm's board of directors. In lieu of the target company's board approval, the would-be acquirer may then:



Issue a tender offer
Employ a proxy fight
Attempt to buy the necessary company stock in the open market



When a company, investor, or group of investors makes a tender offer to purchase the shares of another company at a premium above the current market value (CMV), the board of directors may reject the offer. The acquirer can approach the shareholders, who may accept the offer if it is at a sufficient premium to market value or if they are unhappy with current management. The Williams Act of 1968 regulates tender offers and requires the disclosure of all-cash tender offers.



In a proxy fight, opposing groups of stockholders persuade other stockholders to allow them to use their shares' proxy votes. If a company that makes a hostile takeover bid acquires enough proxies, it can use them to vote to accept the offer.






The sale of the stock only takes place if a sufficient number of stockholders, usually a majority, agree to accept the offer. 


   Defending Against a Hostile Takeover  

To deter the unwanted takeover, the target company's management may have preemptive defenses in place, or it may employ reactive defenses to fight back.


  Differential Voting Rights (DVRs)  

To protect against hostile takeovers, a company can establish stock with differential voting rights (DVRs), where some shares carry greater voting power than others. This can make it more difficult to generate the votes needed for a hostile takeover if management owns a large enough portion of shares with more voting power. Shares with less voting power also commonly pay a higher dividend, which can make them more attractive investments.


  Employee Stock Ownership Program (ESOP)  

Establishing an employee stock ownership program (ESOP) involves using a tax-qualified plan in which employees own a substantial interest in the company. Employees may be more likely to vote with management. As such, this can be a successful defense.



However, such schemes have drawn scrutiny in the past. In some cases, courts have invalidated defensive ESOPs on the grounds that the plan was established for the benefit of management, not shareholders.


  Crown Jewel  

In a crown jewel defense, a provision of the company's bylaws requires the sale of the most valuable assets if there is a hostile takeover, thereby making it less attractive as a takeover opportunity. This is often considered one of the last lines of defense.


  Poison Pill  

This defense tactic is officially known as a shareholder rights plan. It allows existing shareholders to buy newly issued stock at a discount if one shareholder has bought more than a stipulated percentage of the stock, resulting in a dilution of the ownership interest of the acquiring company. The buyer who triggered the defense, usually the acquiring company, is excluded from the discount.



The term poison pill is often used broadly to include a range of defenses, including issuing additional debt, which aims to make the target less attractive, and stock options to employees that vest upon a merger.


  Other Strategies  

Sometimes a company's management will defend against unwanted hostile takeovers by using several controversial strategies, such as the people poison pill, a golden parachute, or the Pac-Man defense.



A people poison pill provides for the resignation of key personnel in the case of a hostile takeover, while the golden parachute involves granting members of the target's executive team with benefits (bonuses, severance pay, stock options, among others) if they are ever terminated as a result of a takeover. The Pac-Man defense has the target company aggressively buy stock in the company attempting the takeover.


   Hostile Takeover Examples  

A hostile takeover can be a difficult and lengthy process and attempts often end up unsuccessful. For example, billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn attempted three separate bids to acquire household goods giant Clorox in 2011, which rejected each one and introduced a new shareholder rights plan in its defense. The Clorox board even sidelined Icahn's proxy fight efforts, and the attempt ultimately ended in a few months with no takeover.



An example of a successful hostile takeover is that of pharmaceutical company Sanofi's (SNY) acquisition of Genzyme. Genzyme produced drugs for the treatment of rare genetic disorders and Sanofi saw the company as a means to expand into a niche industry and broaden its product offering. After friendly takeover offers were unsuccessful as Genzyme rebuffed Sanofi's advances, Sanofi went directly to the shareholders, paid a premium for the shares, added in contingent value rights, and ended up acquiring Genzyme.




How Is a Hostile Takeover Done?
The ways to take over another company include the tender offer, the proxy fight, and purchasing stock on the open market. A tender offer requires a majority of the shareholders to accept. A proxy fight aims to replace a good portion of the target's uncooperative board members. An acquirer may also choose to simply buy enough company stock in the open market to take control.




How Can Management Preempt a Hostile Takeover?
One of the ways to prevent hostile takeovers is to establish stocks with differential voting rights like establishing a share class with fewer voting rights and a higher dividend. These shares become an attractive investment, making it harder to generate the votes needed for a hostile takeover, especially if management owns a lot of the shares with more voting rights.Companies may also establish an employee stock ownership program. ESOPs allow employees to own a substantial interest in the company. This opens the door for employees to vote with management, making it a fairly successful defense against being acquired.




What Is a Poison Pill?
A poison pill, which is officially known as a shareholder rights plan, is a common defense against a hostile takeover. There are two types of poison pill defenses: the flip-in and flip-over. A flip-in allows existing shareholders to buy new stock at a discount if someone accumulates a specified number of shares of the target company. The acquiring company is excluded from the sale and its ownership interest becomes diluted. A flip-over strategy allows the target company's shareholders to purchase the acquiring company's stock at a deeply discounted price if the takeover goes through, which punishes the acquiring company by diluting its equity.




What Are Other Defenses to a Hostile Takeover?
Companies can use the crown-jewel defense, golden parachute, and the Pac-Man defense to defend themselves against hostile takeovers.   In a crown jewel defense, a company's bylaws require its most valuable assets to be sold in the event of a takeover. This can make the company less desirable to the acquirer. A golden parachute provides the top executives of the target with substantial benefits when the takeover is completed, which can deter acquirers. A Pac-Man defense involves the target company turning the tables and aggressively purchasing shares in the acquirer's company.
What Is a Hostile Takeover Bid?  

A hostile takeover bid is an attempt to buy a controlling interest in a publicly-traded company without the consent or cooperation of the target company's board of directors. If the board rejects an offer from a potential buyer, there are three possible courses of action for the would-be acquirer: make a tender offer, initiate a proxy fight, or buy up company stock in the open market.






A tender offer is a direct approach to shareholders to sell their shares to the would-be acquirer at a premium over the current market price.A proxy fight is a campaign to get shareholder support for the replacement of board members with advocates of the takeover.A would-be acquirer also can buy shares on the open market.


   Understanding the Hostile Takeover Bid  

A takeover bid is most often launched by a company that wants to expand its business, eliminate a rival, or both. The company may want to expand its customer base, gain access to new distribution channels, grow its market share, or gain a technological advantage.



A bid may also be made by an activist shareholder who sees an opportunity to improve the target company's performance and profit from its stock price appreciation. 



The usual first step is to make an offer to the board of directors of the company to purchase a controlling stake in the company. The board of directors may reject that offer on the grounds that it is not in the best interest of the company's shareholders.



At that point, a hostile takeover bid might be launched.


   Hostile Takeover Bid Tactics  

The would-be acquirer can attempt to buy enough shares of the company's stock on the open market to achieve a controlling share. That is far from easy given the fact that the acquisition of large amounts of a company's stock inevitably pushes its price progressively higher. Since the reason for the price rise has no relationship to the company's performance, the aggressor is likely to overpay.



That leaves two major tactics:


  Tender Offer  

The would-be acquirer may make a tender offer to the company's shareholders. A tender offer is a bid to buy a controlling share of the target's stock at a fixed price. The price is usually set above the current market price to allow the sellers an incentive to sell their shares. This is a formal offer and may include specifications such as an offer expiry window. Paperwork must be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and the acquirer must provide a summary of its plans for the target company.



Companies can adopt takeover defense strategies to protect themselves against tender offers. In such cases, a proxy fight might be used.


  Proxy Fight  

The goal of a proxy fight is to replace board members who oppose the takeover with new board members who favor the takeover. This requires convincing shareholders that a change in management is needed. If shareholders like the idea of a change in management, they are persuaded to allow the potential acquirer to vote their shares by proxy in favor of a new board member or members. If the proxy fight is successful, the new board members are installed and vote in favor of the target's acquisition.


   A Comeback for the Hostile Takeover?  

The hostile takeover was, to some extent, a creature of the 1980s, with a rash of well-publicized attempts by takeover specialists who became known as "corporate raiders." Since then, they have occurred primarily in the aftermath of market downturns that have left some corporations looking like attractively priced targets.



In late 2020, the Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance predicted another wave of hostile takeovers in the wake of the 2020 COVID-19 crisis. Sure enough, mergers and acquisitions activity broke records in 2021. According to a PwC report, 62,000 deals totaling $5.1 trillion were disclosed globally in 2021, and 130 of those deals were "megadeals" valued at more than $5 billion.
What Is the Hot Hand?  

The "hot hand" is the notion that because one has had a string of successes, an individual or entity is more likely to have continued success. For example, if one flipped a (fair) coin and guessed correctly that it would land on heads three times in a row, it might be said that they have a "hot hand." Under such circumstances, a person believes that their odds of guessing which side the coin will land on next are greater than the 50% they actually are. When there is a series of failures, the same concept works as the "cold hand."



While the hot hand feels like it happens all the time, academic research has shown this phenomenon to be purely psychological. Newer studies, however, do show some support for the hot hand in certain sporting events.





Key Takeaways

The "hot hand" is the notion where people believe that after a string of successes, an individual or entity is more likely to have continued success.Psychologists believe that the hot hand is a fallacy that stems from the representative heuristic, as identified by behavioral economics.Still, some research shows that for certain sporting events, the hot hand may be real.


   How the Hot Hand Works  

The belief in a hot hand is one shared by many gamblers and investors alike and is believed by psychologists to stem from the same source, the representative heuristic. For example, there is data to suggest that the decision of an investor to buy or sell a mutual fund depends largely on the track record of the fund manager, even though there is evidence that this factor is highly overrated. Hence, it would appear that such investors are making decisions based on whether or not they feel the fund managers are "hot" or not.



The hot hand fallacy is the psychological condition that people believe an individual is "hot" or "cold" depending on past performance, when that performance has no bearing on future outcomes. For instance, rolling a die is independent of how you rolled it in the past.


   Evidence for and Against the Hot Hand  

When gambling, as in investing, it is possible to experience a winning streak driven by what seems to be momentum. However, the idea that favorable outcomes are a result of a hot hand is purely a psychological phenomenon. In reality, once an investor or a gambler begins to think they have a hot hand, many proven biases can arise. Several common behavioral gaps, which can be brought on by a hot hand include overconfidence, confirmation bias, the illusion of control, recency bias, and hindsight bias—just to name a few from the growing list of the popular market psychology factors.



New research using modern statistical analysis supports the bit of evidence for the "hot hand" in certain sporting events. The Supreme Court's May 2018 decision to ease federal laws prohibiting commercial sports betting in most states opened the door to legalizing the estimated $150 billion in illegal wagers on professional and amateur sports in the U.S. every year. As sports betting becomes more mainstream, it's not unthinkable that investment strategies explicitly following a hot hand will pop up.
What Is a Hot Issue?  

In finance, the term “hot issue” is used to describe an upcoming initial public offering (IPO) that is particularly popular among the investing public.



Hot issues are typically oversubscribed by investors, meaning that their demand outstrips their supply. In those instances, many speculators may be attracted by the prospect of short-term speculative gains as opposed to being convinced of the company’s long-term prospects.





Key Takeaways

A hot issue is an upcoming IPO that is heavily oversubscribed by the investing public.It is commonly associated with companies in glamorous or high-tech industries.Hot issues often attract speculators who anticipate buying and flipping the oversubscribed shares for a short-term gain, often on the very next day following the company’s listing.


   How Hot Issues Work  

When a company is preparing itself for an IPO, its executives and investment banking partners will take the company on a so-called “roadshow”, touring several institutional investors in an attempt to promote excitement for the new issue. In some cases, such as when the company is viewed as a leader or disruptor in an exciting new industry, these roadshows occasionally succeed in producing widespread interest in the new IPO.



Typically, investors interested in a hot issue will be split into two basic camps. In the first group are those who genuinely believe in the company’s long-term potential, and wish to buy in on the ground floor. On the other hand, many investors are attracted to hot issues simply because they believe they can buy and then flip the shares for a short-term gain. This kind of speculative enthusiasm can sometimes produce bubble-like conditions, sometimes to the detriment of longer-term investors.



In theory, any kind of company could become a hot issue when undergoing an IPO. In practice, however, this phenomenon is typically associated with high-tech companies or those engaged in otherwise glamorous industry sectors. Established companies in mature industries tend not to attract the same level of investor enthusiasm, perhaps because their business models are more stable and predictable than their hot issue peers.


   Real World Example of a Hot Issue  

XYZ Corporation is a successful biotechnology startup that is preparing for its IPO. With the help of its investment banking partners, XYZ successfully files Form S-1 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), a necessary first step in the IPO process. Then, it proceeds to meet with a wide variety of institutional investors in order to make the case for their company and justify a desired IPO valuation.



If XYZ is successful in its investor presentations, it could face a situation where its IPO is significantly oversubscribed. In this situation, its IPO would be seen as a “hot issue”, with long-term and speculative investors competing for the limited number of shares on offer.



Although the actual price of the IPO is set after the market close on the IPO date, the share price will often change significantly on the following day. In the case of hot issues, it is not uncommon for the share price to climb significantly—sometimes by double-digit percentages in a single day. Although it is by no means guaranteed, this historical phenomenon has encouraged the tendency of speculators to bid up hot issue IPOs in the hopes of securing a large short-term gain.
What Is a Hot IPO?  

The term hot IPO refers to an initial public offering with significant demand.



These IPOs are popular, drawing a tremendous amount of interest from investors and the media even before they hit the market. This hype and attention generally lead to a significant rise in share prices after the company goes public.



Hot IPOs may be risky, especially when it comes to investing in companies that don't have a proven track record of success.





Key Takeaways

A hot IPO is an initial public offering that garners great interest from the media and demand from investors.Higher demand leads to sharp price increases in the secondary market, which are generally not sustainable. Companies bring in at least one bank to underwrite and handle the pricing, marketing, and decisions about the number of shares and share price range.The demand for shares in a hot IPO surpasses the initial supply, which means the price needs to be revised upward.Underpriced hot IPOs will likely see their stock price rise after the shares begin trading while the stock price drops for overpriced ones, 


   How Hot IPOs Work  

Private companies that want to go public often do so by issuing stock through an initial public offering. They can raise a substantial amount of money in a short time, particularly if the issuance attracts public attention and becomes a hot IPO. An IPO gives a private company a chance to cash in on the public’s demand for its shares.



The first step is for the company to find at least one investment bank to act as an underwriter. The underwriter(s) markets the IPO, helping the company set a per-share price. Banks assume a specific number of shares, which they will offer to their buyers, who are either institutional or retail investors. The banks collect a portion of the sale proceeds as a fee, which is called the underwriting spread.



IPOs are considered hot if and when they draw a great deal of attention from the media, which can lead to a lot of interest from investors. By going through the hot IPO process, companies can raise a lot of capital in a short amount of time. This allows them to pay off their debts, fund their operations, and set aside money for future growth.



The increased demand for shares in a hot IPO often leads to a sharp rise in the price of the stock soon after it begins trading. This sudden increase in share price is often not sustainable, which means the price drops. This pattern can have a big impact on the market itself.



Sharp price moves can affect initial shareholders after trading opens on the secondary market. Underwriters may give preferential treatment to high-value clients when offering shares in a hot IPO, so they bear some risk if they overprice the stock. 






A hot IPO is not a guaranteed win for investors because the hype doesn't bear the planned fruit for the investor.


   Special Considerations  

Hot IPOs appeal to investors who anticipate that the demand for shares will outstrip the number of shares offered. IPOs with more demand than supply are considered oversubscribed, making them a target for short-term speculators as well as those who see a long-term opportunity in holding the equity.



Because a hot IPO is likely to be oversubscribed, companies often allow their underwriters to increase the size of the offering to accommodate more investors and make more money.



Underwriters must balance the size of the IPO with the appropriate price for the level of interest in the offering. When done correctly, this balancing will maximize profit for the company and its underwriter banks.



If a hot IPO is an underpriced issue, it will usually see a rapid rise in price after the shares hit the market and the market adjusts to the high demand for the stock. Overpricing the IPO can lead to a rapid fall in prices, even though the higher price benefits the underwriting bank issuing the stock since it only makes money on the initial issue.






Companies have other ways they can go public, including a direct listing or a direct public offering.


   Examples of a Hot IPO  

Social giant Facebook's initial public offering is commonly considered a hot IPO. In early 2012, analysts indicated that its long-awaited IPO, seeking to raise about $10.6 billion by selling more than 337 million shares at $28 to $35 per share, could generate such significant interest from investors.



Those analysts predicted an oversubscribed IPO.



When the market opened on May 18, 2012, investor interest showed a higher demand for the company's shares than it offered. To take advantage of the oversubscribed IPO and fulfill investor demand, Facebook increased the number of shares to 421 million. But it also raised the price range to $34 to $38 per share.



Facebook and its underwriters effectively raised both the supply and price of shares to meet demand, diminishing their oversubscription.



However, it quickly became clear that Facebook was not oversubscribed at its IPO price, as the stock fell precipitously in its first four months of trading. The stock failed to trade above its IPO price until July 31, 2013.
What Is Hot Money?  

Hot money signifies currency that quickly and regularly moves between financial markets, that ensures investors lock in the highest available short-term interest rates. Hot money continuously shifts from countries with low-interest rates to those with higher rates.



These financial transfers affect the exchange rate and potentially impact a country's balance of payments. In law enforcement and banking regulatory circles, the phrase "hot money" can also refer to stolen money that has been specially marked, so that it may be traced and identified.





Key Takeaways

Hot money is capital that investors regularly move between economies and financial markets to profit from highest short-term interest rates.Banks bring hot money into an economy by providing short-term certificates of deposit with higher-than-average rates.The Chinese economy is an example of a hot money market that turned cold following investor flight.


   Understanding Hot Money  

Hot money not only relates to currencies of different countries, but it may also refer to capital invested in competing businesses. Banks seek to bring in hot money by offering short-term certificates of deposit (CDs) with higher-than-average interest rates. If the bank lowers its interest rates, or if a rival financial institution offers higher rates, investors are apt to move hot money funds to the bank offering the better deal.



In a global context, hot money can flow between economies only after trade barriers are removed and sophisticated financial infrastructures are established. Against this backdrop, money flows into high-growth areas that offer the potential for outsized returns. Conversely, hot money flows out of underperforming countries and economic sectors.


   China as a Hot-and-Cold Money Market  

China's economy provides a clear example of the ebb and flow of hot money. Since the turn of the century, the country's rapidly expanding economy, accompanied by an epic rise in Chinese stock prices, established China as one of the hottest hot money markets in history.



However, the flood of money into China quickly reversed direction following substantial devaluation of the Chinese yuan, coupled with a major correction in the Chinese stock market. The Royal Bank of Scotland's chief China economy analyst, Louis Kuijs, estimates that during the brief six months from September 2014 to March 2015, the country lost an estimated $300 billion in hot money.



The reversal of China's money market is historic. From 2006 to 2014, the country's foreign currency reserves multiplied, creating a $4 trillion balance, partially accrued from long-term foreign investment in Chinese businesses. But a significant chunk came from hot money, when investors bought bonds with attractive interest rates and accumulated stocks with high return potential. Furthermore, investors borrowed heaps of money in China, at cheap rates, in order to purchase higher interest-rate bonds from other countries.



Although the Chinese market became an attractive destination for hot money, thanks to a booming stock market and strong currency, the influx of cash slowed to a trickle in 2016, because stock prices peaked to the extent that there was little upside to be had. Additionally, since 2013, the fluctuating yuan also caused broad divestments. During the nine-month period between June 2014 and March 2015, the foreign exchange reserves of the country plummeted more than $250 billion.



Similar events occurred in 2019, when according to estimates by the Institute of International Finance, more than $60 billion in capital was taken out of China's economy between May and June of that year, due to increased capital controls, plus the devaluation of the yuan.






Hot money activity is generally funneled towards investments with short horizons.
What is the Hot Waitress Economic Index?  

The hot waitress economic index is an offensive and dubious economic indicator that counts the number of attractive people working as servers. 



According to what we will refer to as the attractive server index, the higher the number of good-looking servers, the weaker the current state of the economy. The questionable assumption is that attractive individuals do not have trouble finding higher-paying jobs during good times in the economy. During tougher economic times, though—according to the indicator—high-paying jobs are more difficult to get, and therefore a higher number of attractive people will be forced to work in service-industry jobs. The theory would seem to disregard employee skills, qualifications, or experience.



The attractive server index was first articulated by Hugo Lindgren in an article for New York Magazine. Lindgren was an American magazine and newspaper writer and editor at the time. He has since gone into Hollywood production, not economics or academia.





Key Takeaways

The hot waitress economic index is an offensive and dubious economic indicator of a financial recession.It states that the higher the number of good-looking servers, the weaker the current state of the economy.The index was first coined by journalist Hugo Lindgren in New York Magazine.


   Understanding the Attractive Server Index  

In his 2009 piece, written at the onset of the Great Recession, Lindgren wrote about finding what he considered to be more attractive people serving tables at a Lower East Side establishment in New York City. These servers were replacements for people who had been laid off. The manager in charge reportedly surmised that good-looking waitresses would drive more sales for the establishment.



The attractive server index hasn't been vetted by economists, and it is not known if this strategy by the management of one establishment was successful. A traditional economic theory contends that employment tends to be a lagging indicator for economic recovery, but Lindgren contended there was "good reason to believe" his index was a leading indicator.



"As a commodity that’s fairly cheap, historically effective as a marketing tool, and available on a freelance basis, hotness will likely be back in demand long before your average Michigan autoworker is," he wrote.



Or the attractive server index could be just a coincidence.



There is minimal research in support of this indicator. Scientists have found that attractive people tend to be considered more capable and are more confident, and these two things combine to get them better jobs and higher wages. This is often called "lookism," or beauty bias.﻿﻿ So when attractive people are waiting tables—a job some consider to be lower skill, and/or lower pay—it could suggest there is a lack of better jobs out there. 



However, the pay scale for servers varies greatly based on a restaurant's location, clientele, food quality, and the competency of the servers themselves. And to assume the service industry is low skill is to discount the highly competitive nature of the market. In today's world, Yelp reviews﻿﻿ calling out uneducated, unskilled, or poor servers will quickly get a server fired.



Some economic indicators are often well-respected measures of the economy's heath, such as when economists talk about GDP or initial jobless claims. But almost anything can be considered an economic indicator, and thus any new theory should be prodded for its validity before it can be trusted.



"There can be a pop culture mythos around some economic indicators," says Erika Rasure, Ph.D., assistant professor of business and financial services at Maryville University and member of the Investopedia Financial Review Board. "These can be very superstitious. People try to make correlations between observable phenomenon, but it doesn't make it true. In this case, it is misogynistic and sexist."



To judge the accuracy of an indicator, Rasure recommends doing your homework. "How well has an indicator been studied? Don't do anything until you have the facts, and don't believe everything you see and hear on TV or the internet.


   Attractive Server Index Versus Other Strange Indicators   

While the accuracy and reliability of the attractive server index is questionable, it is far from alone in the finance realm of weird indicators people have used. If you can dream it up, it's possible someone has beat you to that theory. "Some people think the full moon has an influence on the economy. I think of these indicators as pop culture finance reads," said Rasure.



Over the years, various insulting and suspect theories have surfaced to tout the predictive power of marine advertisements, sales of men's underwear, even lipstick sales. The idea behind these ideas are similar. In a difficult economy, you can expect to see tougher marine recruitment ads on TV (because they meet recruitment goals quickly in down economies, so they don't need to worry about scaring people away), men's underwear sales will dip (that pair might last a little longer), and lipstick sales will go up (a relatively inexpensive personal luxury that no one needs in a masked pandemic).
What Is a Hot Wallet?  

A hot wallet is a cryptocurrency wallet that is always connected to the internet and cryptocurrency network. Hot wallets are used to send and receive cryptocurrency, and they allow you to view how many tokens you have available to use.





Key Takeaways

A hot wallet is a wallet that is always connected to the internet; they allow you to store, send, and receive tokens.Hot wallets are linked with public and private keys that help facilitate transactions and act as security measures.Because hot wallets are connected to the internet, they tend to be somewhat more vulnerable to hacks and theft than cold storage methods.


   How a Hot Wallet Works  

When you buy or mine a cryptocurrency, you have to set up a wallet to facilitate transactions if you decide to use it for purchasing goods or services. Your cryptocurrencies, or rather the private keys you use to access the currency, are stored in these wallets when ownership is transferred to you by the ecosystem.



When you own a cryptocurrency, you're given private keys that identify it as yours. Public keys are similar to account usernames; they identify the wallet so that the user can receive tokens without revealing their identity. Private keys are similar to personal identification numbers; they allow you to access the wallet and check balances, initiate transactions, and more. Without either of these keys, the wallet is effectively useless.



Hot wallets are applications connected to the internet and the cryptocurrency infrastructure, which allows you to use them. For a user, the hot wallet is the interface for accessing and storing your cryptocurrency. For the cryptocurrency network, their role is to facilitate any changes to the transaction record kept on the decentralized blockchain ledger for whichever cryptocurrency you're using.






Cold wallets are also called cold storage, and they are considered one of the safest methods for securing your digital currency.



They are different from cold wallets, which are devices or applications that store your private keys offline—these can be an application on your device that doesn't connect to the internet or a device that looks like a USB thumb drive that stores your keys. To use the cryptocurrency you have in cold storage, you need to transfer them to your hot wallet.


   Types of Hot Wallets  

There are a variety of hot wallets available, and many of them are free to download. Some wallets are specifically designed to be used in partnership with particular mobile web applications; you might find one that only works with a particular cryptocurrency or ecosystem. In addition, some cryptocurrency exchanges will only accept transfers to and from specific wallets.



Examples of hot wallets are MetaMask, Coinbase Wallet, and Edge Wallet. MetaMask is designed for transactions using the Ethereum ecosystem. Coinbase Wallet is the wallet for the cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase and Edge Wallet is designed to accept transactions using all of your digital assets.



Because there are so many wallets with different designs and intents, it's important for you to research hot wallets before downloading and using their services. Wallet developers have varying degrees of expertise, various commitments to security and privacy, and different priorities in mind when creating their wallets. Some might have fees; others might not. You might need to use one wallet that integrates with your internet browser for one currency and use another wallet that is a dedicated application.


   Special Considerations  

There are several aspects you should consider before deciding on your hot wallet. Most important are its security features and how you use them. Because your cryptocurrency is only as safe as the way you use it, its safety and security depend upon how you're storing your tokens. Any items stored in a hot wallet are vulnerable to attack because the public and private keys are stored on the internet. To keep your cryptocurrency safe, consider some of these tips.






The old saying "don't keep all of your eggs in one basket" applies to many financial assets, including cryptocurrency. If you use more than one storage type or strategy, you're minimizing the risks of theft and loss.


  Use Your Hot Wallet Only for Transactions  

It's a good idea to only keep a small portion of your cryptoassets in your hot wallet; you might only put the amount of cryptocurrency you need for spending in it when you need it. This strategy would mean storing most of your assets in a cold wallet, then transferring what you need to the hot wallet for immediate or near future use.


  Store Your Assets in an Exchange  

You could also choose to keep your cryptocurrency tokens in accounts linked to the exchange you use. Some exchanges will store your cryptocurrency within their infrastructure, essentially making them a hot wallet provider. However, if you keep your tokens in an exchange account and an attacker gains access to the exchange's network, you could lose your cryptocurrency in the attack.


  Exchange Your Cryptocurrencies  

If you maintain a substantial balance of cryptocurrency, you're accepting the risk of drawing the attention of hackers or losing a significant portion of your holdings in an attack. Because many of the top digital currency exchanges allow users to transfer between various fiat currencies and cryptocurrencies, you could only hold small amounts in your wallet. You can convert the rest to your country's currency and place it in your bank account.






There might be fees for exchanging cryptocurrency for fiat currency and transferring the funds out of the exchange or removing it to store it, but it's worth considering if you're not holding your cryptocurrency as an investment.


   Hot Wallets and Investing  

Cryptocurrency investing is similar to stock market investing—you own a cryptocurrency and wait for its fair market value to increase. You could continue holding it, or try to sell it to another investor at a profit. However, a hot wallet is a very risky place to store your cryptocurrency investments. Cold storage, paper storage, or other non-connected storage methods might serve you better as you wait for your cryptocurrency's value to increase.




How Do I Secure My Hot Wallet?
Only keep small amounts in your hot wallet, ensure you back it up, keep the software up to date, encrypt it, and keep your password secure to make sure your wallet is safe.




Can Hot Wallets be Hacked?
Current technology and software make it difficult to hack hot wallets, but that doesn't mean that they can't be. The devices (phone, computer, or tablet) your wallet is on can be accessed through various methods, which is what makes hot wallets most vulnerable.




Are Hot Wallets Safe?
Hot wallets can be safe if you use them only to transfer digital currency. When the cryptocurrency you're not going to use is in cold storage, there is no risk of loss if the hot wallet is accessed.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is Hotelling's Theory?  

Hotelling's theory, or Hotelling's rule, posits that owners of nonrenewable resources will only produce basic commodities if doing so can yield more than could be earned from available financial instruments, such as U.S. Treasury or other similar interest-bearing securities. The theory assumes that markets are efficient and that the owners of the nonrenewable resources are motivated only by profit.



Hotelling's theory is used by economists to attempt to predict the price of oil and other nonrenewable resources, based on prevailing interest rates. Hotelling's rule was named after American statistician Harold Hotelling.





Key Takeaways

Hotelling's Theory defines the price or yield at which the owner of a nonrenewable resource will extract it and sell it, rather than leave it and wait.It bases the relative price on U.S. Treasury bonds or some similar interest-bearing security.The rule was devised by American statistician Harold Hotelling.


   Understanding Hotelling's Theory  

Hotelling's theory addresses a fundamental decision for an owner of a nonrenewable resource: Keep the resource in the ground and hope for a better price the next year, or extract and sell it and invest the proceeds in an interest-bearing security.



Consider an owner of iron ore deposits. If this miner expects a 10% appreciation of iron ore over the next 12 months, and the prevailing real interest rate (nominal rate less inflation) at which he can invest is only 5% per year, he will choose not to extract the iron ore. Extraction costs are ignored in his theory. If the numbers were switched, with a price appreciation expectation of 5% and an interest rate of 10%, the owner would mine the iron ore, sell it, and invest the sales proceeds at a 10% yield. The miner will be indifferent at 5% and 5%.


   Theory and Practice  

The difference between the marginal extraction costs of natural resources and their price is called the Hotelling rent. It follows that the rate of change in the price of a depletable resource must equal the interest rate that a miner or extractor uses to discount the future; this is known as the Hotelling r-percent growth rule. Whenever marginal extraction costs are zero, the price of the resource in stock and that of the unmined resource are equivalent and the Hotelling rule applies equally to both. If, however, extraction costs increase over time, the price of the resource should rise at a rate that is lower than the discount interest.



Thus, all else being equal, an increase in the discount rate implies a higher price for the unextracted resource and would incentivize a faster rate of extraction. In theory, then, the price increase rates of nonrenewable resources like oil, copper, coal, iron ore, zinc, nickel, etc. should track the pace of real interest rate increases.



In practice, the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis concluded in a 2014 study that Hotelling's theory fails. The price appreciation rates of all the basic commodities examined by authors fell short—some far short—of the annual average rate of U.S. Treasury securities. The authors suspected that extraction costs explained the difference.


   Who Was Harold Hotelling?  

Harold Hotelling (1895 - 1973) was an American statistician and economist affiliated with Stanford University and Columbia University in his early and mid-career years, and later with the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill until his retirement. Aside from the eponymous theory on prices of nonrenewable resources, he is known for Hotelling's T-square distribution, Hotelling's law, and Hotelling's lemma.
What Is a House Call?  

A house call is a demand by a brokerage firm that an account holder deposit enough cash to cover a shortfall in the amount of money deposited in a margin account. This typically follows losses in the investments bought on margin.



The call is made when the account balance has fallen below the maintenance margin required by the brokerage firm. If the client fails to make up the shortfall in the time specified by the house, the account holder's positions will be liquidated without further notice until the minimum requirement is satisfied.





Key Takeaways

A house call is a brokerage house demand that an investor restore the minimum required deposit in order to offset losses in the value of assets bought on margin.Buyers on margin borrow from "the house," or the brokerage, to multiply their gains.If the investment tanks, the buyer owes the house.


   Understanding House Calls  

The house call is a type of margin call. Investors who buy assets using money borrowed from the brokerage firm, or "on margin," are required by the brokerage to retain a minimum amount of cash or securities on deposit to offset losses.



Buying on margin is used by investors who hope to multiply their returns by multiplying the number of shares they buy. They borrow money from the house in order to achieve that goal. If they succeed, and the price of the shares increases, they repay the loan and pocket the rest as profit. If they fail and the price of the shares falls, they owe the house. If they owe more than they have deposited in reserve, they must make up the difference.



A house call goes out if the investment falls in value below the amount of the required deposit. The investor can cover the shortfall by depositing more cash or selling other assets in the account.



When a customer opens a margin account, up to 50% of the purchase price of the first stock in the account can be borrowed by the customer in accordance with Regulation T of the Federal Reserve Board. Individual brokerage firms have the discretion to increase this percentage.



After a stock is purchased on margin, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) imposes further requirements on margin accounts. One requires that a brokerage hold at least 25% of the market value of the securities purchased on margin. The brokerage firm may set a higher minimum.






The minimum deposit may be up to 50%, but some brokerages set a higher amount.﻿﻿



That number effectively becomes the house requirement for a deposit. When a house call is issued, the account holder must meet the margin maintenance requirement within a stated period.



Fidelity Investments, for example, has a margin maintenance requirement that ranges from 30% to 100%, and its house call allows an account holder five business days to sell margin-eligible securities or deposit cash or margin-eligible securities, but Fidelity may cover the call at any time (portfolio margin accounts follow a different set of requirements). After that, the firm will start liquidating securities. Charles Schwab has a maintenance requirement that is usually 30%, so it can vary with the security, but house calls are due "immediately" by the firm.




What Is the Maintenance Margin Requirement by a Brokerage Firm?
The maintenance margin is the minimum equity an investor must hold in the margin account after the purchase has been made. The customer's equity in the account must not fall below 25% of the current market value of the securities in the account. If this requirement is not met, the brokerage firm may liquidate the securities in the customer's account.




What Happens When an Investor Buys Assets on Margin, and the Price of the Shares Falls?
The investor needs to repay the borrowed amount to the brokerage firm. If they owe more than they have deposited in reserve, they must make up the difference.




What Is the Percentage of the First Stock That Can Be Borrowed by the Customer in a Margin Account?
Up to 50% of the purchase price, according to Regulation T of the Federal Reserve Board.
What Is a House Maintenance Requirement?  

A house maintenance requirement is the level of minimum margin account equity that is required by a brokerage firm. House maintenance requirement levels are based on the standards set out in Regulation T of the Federal Reserve.



Although Regulation T specifies the minimum maintenance requirements permitted by law, brokerage firms are free to adjust their own “house” maintenance requirements, provided that their standards are more rigorous than the minimum requirements set out in Regulation T.





Key Takeaways

House maintenance requirements are the standards for minimum margin account equity levels chosen by brokerage firms.They must be greater or equal than the 25% level stipulated in Regulation T. Often, they are in the 30% to 50% range.Brokerage firms will sometimes grant lower house maintenance requirements for their larger or more sophisticated clients, although these figures will always be at or above the 25% minimum.House maintenance requirements can also vary depending on the type of investment, with volatile, less liquid ones likely to require more equity for protection.


   How House Maintenance Requirements Work  

The purpose of maintenance requirements is to ensure that investors using margin accounts to make leveraged investments do not find themselves unable to repay their margin loans. In this manner, maintenance requirements are intended to reduce credit risk for the brokerage firms. By extension, they aim to reduce the systemic risk that might otherwise arise from widespread defaults by margin traders.






House maintenance requirements typically range between 30% and 50%. While stocks are the security most commonly purchased in a margin account, many other securities such as mutual funds, Treasuries, corporate bonds, and options may be purchased "on margin" subject to varying purchase and maintenance requirements.



According to Regulation T, margin traders must maintain equity levels of at least 25% of the value of their investments. If they fail to maintain this level, they may find themselves subject to a margin call by their broker.



In this situation, the trader would be required to promptly deposit additional collateral into their account. If they fail to do so, their broker can liquidate their investment positions in order to pay back their margin. Any outstanding balance of the loan would then need to be repaid separately by the margin trader.


   Bull vs. Bear Markets: Why Maintenance Requirements Are Necessary  

During bull markets, margin traders may find their maintenance requirements to be unduly restrictive. When asset prices are generally rising, it can be tempting to leverage as much as possible in order to maximize return on equity (ROE).



However, the danger of this quickly reveals itself once the market begins to turn. During bear markets or periods of sudden financial shock such as occurred in the 2007–2008 financial crisis, margin traders are often faced with significant risk.



The decline in portfolio values, combined with the need to repay large margin loans on short notice due to margin calls, can sometimes force margin traders into significant financial duress.



Often, these traders will forfeit all of the gains made in previous years, and may even be forced to liquidate other personal assets in order to repay their margin loans. Therefore, from this perspective, the need for maintenance requirements becomes much more clear.






If the equity in a margin account falls below the maintenance margin, the broker issues a margin call.


   What Impacts House Maintenance Requirements  

The house maintenance requirement will often be higher than the maintenance margin set out by the Federal Reserve's Regulation T, which stipulates that an equity level of at least 25% must be maintained.


  Borrower profile  

In addition to maintaining higher, more stringent house maintenance requirements than the 25% mandated by Regulation T, brokerage firms often also have different house maintenance requirements for different account holders. Typically, this stratification is based on the size, creditworthiness, or perceived sophistication of the client.



For example, smaller and less experienced margin traders may be required to adhere to a 40% house maintenance requirement, while larger and more experienced clients may receive a 30% threshold.


  Type of trade  

The type of investment can also have an impact. For example, small, more volatile stocks may carry higher margin requirements than an investment in a big, well-established S&P 500 company.




What is the minimum maintenance requirement?
The minimum maintenance requirement by law is 25%, which was set out by Regulation T. However, brokers are free to be more rigorous and most are.




What does a 30% maintenance requirement mean?
A maintenance requirement of 30% means an investor borrowing on margin must have at least 30% of the total market value of the securities in their margin account at all times.  So, if the securities that you borrowed money to buy are valued at $20,000, the maintenance requirement would be $6,000.




What is a special maintenance requirement?
The same maintenance requirements are not uniformly applied to everyone and everything. Some securities can carry higher maintenance requirements because they are deemed riskier. That's usually the case with more volatile or less liquid investments.


   The Bottom Line  

A house maintenance requirement is the minimum equity an investor must hold in their margin account after making a purchase. Once a security is bought on margin, the requirement kicks in.



FINRA demands that at least 25% of the total market value of the securities be in the account at all times. However, brokers tend to demand even more than that. It’s very important to pay attention to these requirements. If you fall below them and don’t act fast when prompted, your broker could liquidate your investment positions to claw the money back.
What Is the House Money Effect?  

The house money effect is a theory used to explain the tendency of investors to take on greater risk when reinvesting profit earned through investing than they would when investing their savings or wages. People will often think about investment income as separate from the money they earned in other ways, which distorts their mental accounting.



Because that money is incorrectly considered somehow "extra" or "separate" from money earned in other ways, investors will invest it with a much higher risk tolerance than they would otherwise, thereby skewing their investment decisions.





Key Takeaways

The house money effect is a behavioral finance concept whereby people risk more with winnings than they would otherwise.The effect can be attributed to the perception that the investor has new money that wasn't theirs.There are many examples of this effect, but all show a common lack of rigor.House money effect is not to be confused with a predetermined, mathematically calculated strategy of increasing position size when greater than anticipated gains occur.


   Understanding the House Money Effect  

Richard H. Thaler and Eric J. Johnson of the Cornell University Johnson Graduate School of Management first defined the “house money effect,” borrowing the term from casinos. The term makes reference to a gambler who takes winnings from previous bets and uses some or all of them in subsequent bets.



The house money effect suggests, for example, that individuals tend to buy higher-risk stocks or other assets after profitable trades. For example, after earning a short-term profit from a stock with a beta of 1.5, it’s not uncommon for an investor to next trade a stock with a beta of 2 or more. This is because the recent successful outcome in trading the first stock with above-average risk temporarily increases the investor’s risk tolerance. Thus, this investor next seeks even more risk.



Windfall trades may also bring on the house money effect. Say an investor more than doubles their profit on a longer-term trade held for four months. Instead of next taking on a less-risky trade or cashing out some proceeds to preserve the profit, the house money effect suggests they may next take on another risky trade, not fearing a drawdown as long as some of the original gains are preserved.


   Longer-Term Investors and the House Money Effect  

Longer-term investors sometimes suffer a similar fate. Say an investor in a growth-oriented mutual fund earns more than 30% in a year’s time, largely driven by very strong market conditions. Keep in mind, the average stock gain tends to be roughly 6% to 8% a year. Now, say this investor leaves the growth-oriented fund at year’s end to next invest in an aggressive long-short hedge fund. This may be an example of the house money effect temporarily increasing the investor’s risk tolerance.



For longer-term investors, one of two courses of action tends to be preferable to the house money effect: Either staying the course and maintaining a steady risk tolerance, or becoming slightly more conservative after big windfalls.



Of note, the house money effect also carries over to company stock options. In the dot-com boom, some employees refused to exercise their stock options over time, believing it was better to keep them and let them triple, then triple again. This strategy significantly stung workers in 2000, when some paper millionaires lost it all.


   The House Money Effect vs. Letting Winners Ride  

A technical analyst tends to draw a distinction between the house money effect and the concept of “letting winners ride.” On the contrary, one way technical traders manage risk is by cashing out half the value of a trade after meeting an initial price target. Then, technical traders tend to move up their stop before giving the second half of the trade a chance to meet a secondary price target.



Many technical traders utilize some version of this practice, in an effort to continue to profit from the minority of trades that continue to move up and up, which still holds to the spirit of letting winners ride while not falling victim to the house money effect. The difference between these two concepts is actually one of calculation. Letting winners ride in a mathematically calculated position-size strategy is an excellent way of compounding gains. Some traders have, in the past, documented how such strategies were instrumental in their success.




What Is Meant by Risk Tolerance?
Risk tolerance refers to the amount of risk an individual is willing to take when trading or investing. An individual with a high-risk tolerance is comfortable taking higher risks. They will invest in assets or strategies that come with a high risk of loss but also a higher risk of return. Individuals with a low-risk tolerance are the opposite. They do not want to risk losing money and, therefore, choose investments that are low-risk. In general, younger people have a higher risk tolerance as they have their entire life to earn money or recuperate from losses. Older individuals, such as those in retirement, do not have a high-risk tolerance, as they are focused on preserving their money.




Is Volatility Good for Trading?
Yes, volatility is considered good for trading. When markets are volatile, it means there are larger price swings, which is a good opportunity to make profits that are above average. However, on the flip side, increased volatility also means that the chances for losses are higher as well. And those losses would also be amplified due to larger than normal price movements. In essence, volatility allows for trading opportunities.




What Is the Capital Gains Tax on Investment Profits?
If an investment is held for less than a year, profits are taxed at an individual's regular income tax bracket. If investments are held for longer than a year, profits are taxed at the capital gains tax rate. Capital gains tax brackets are 0%, 15%, and 20%.
What Is House Poor?  

"House poor" is a term used to describe a person who spends a large proportion of his or her total income on homeownership, including mortgage payments, property taxes, maintenance, and utilities. Individuals in this situation are short of cash for discretionary items and tend to have trouble meeting other financial obligations, such as vehicle payments.



House poor is sometimes also referred to as house rich, cash poor.





Key Takeaways

A house poor person is anyone whose housing expenses account for an exorbitant percentage of their monthly budget.Individuals in this situation are short of cash for discretionary items and tend to have trouble meeting other financial obligations, such as vehicle payments.House poor individuals can consider limiting discretionary expenses, taking on another job, dipping into savings, selling assets, or downsizing in order to ease their financial difficulties.


   Understanding House Poor  

A house poor person can be considered anyone whose housing expenses account for an exorbitant percentage of their monthly budget. People can find themselves in this situation for a number of reasons. In some cases, a consumer may have underestimated their total costs. Alternatively, a change in income may be the reason that housing expenses have become overwhelming.



Buying a home is part of the American dream and many homeowners pursue homeownership because of the many advantages it offers. Making payments toward the ownership of a real estate property can be a good investment in the long term. That said, it can also quickly turn sour if you run into money trouble and fail to account for the number of unexpected costs that often arise when taking on such a big commitment.  



To prevent becoming house poor, prospective homeowners should not let their dreams get the better of them. They can start out by considering the following unwritten rules and heuristic guidelines:



One estimate of how much to spend on a home is 2.5 times your total gross annual salary (although some experts acknowledge that this figure will often have to be quite a bit higher). Sure, you might earn more in five years. However, you might also find yourself out of work, as well.
Other factors to consider are the amount of the down payment, the mortgage interest rate, the property taxes, etc. Therefore, a more precise way to determine how much you should spend would be to calculate what percent of your monthly gross income will be spent on housing costs. This is referred to as the "debt-to-income" ratio, or front-end DTI. The rule of thumb is that this number should be no more than 28%.
Make sure you choose the right mortgage. If you don’t want to get caught off guard by unexpected payment increases with a variable rate mortgage, opt for a fixed interest rate.
Keep some money aside for unexpected circumstances, such as maintenance costs or sudden changes to your financial position.


   House Poor Requirements  

While experts say consumers should plan to spend no more than 28% of their gross income on housing expenses, it is necessary to consider other debts you may have. When adding these expenses, experts say that the ratio should not exceed 36% of your gross monthly income. This calculation is referred to as the "back-end DTI."



If an individual significantly exceeds the front-end or back-end DTIs, they may very likely qualify as house poor.


   House Poor Methods  

In some cases, unexpected circumstances may occur that make housing payments difficult to manage. The loss of a job or having a child can completely change a household’s spending outlook leaving them house poor with difficulty making the mortgage payments.



If this happens, consumers may need to look at a few different options.


  Limit Discretionary Expenses  

First, if expenses on housing seem overwhelming perhaps there are areas of the budget where you can reduce spending. Maybe canceling vacations or trading cars for a lower payment vehicle could help. 


  Take on Another Job  

If it seems that the expense has gone beyond budget, many consumers will be willing to take on a second job or side jobs that can help to pay the housing bills.


  Dip Into Savings  

When buying a home, investors should start a savings account. Saving a little each month for unexpected issues, such as maintenance and home repairs, can make a big difference, particularly when individuals find themselves strapped for cash.


  Sell  

If none of these options seem feasible, consumers always have the option to sell their home. Selling may allow you to move to a less expensive neighborhood or find a rental home with lower payments. While selling may not be your most favorable option, it allows you to obtain the funds you need and potentially save for buying a new home in the future.




What Are Ways of Becoming House Poor?
Buying a home you cannot afford and tying up all of your cash into a down payment and income into mortgage payments is the most obvious way of becoming house poor. However, you can also grow house poor if your housing costs increase dramatically. This can be due to increasing property taxes and/or rising interest rates (if you have an adjustable mortgage like an ARM). If your income drops or you lose your job, you can also see yourself become house poor.




What Are Ways to Avoid Becoming House Poor?
If you are worried about becoming house poor, or already find yourself in this situation, there are some options. You can look to boost your income through a side job or gig work, and look to cut costs elsewhere. Refinancing a mortgage may be an option, especially if interest rates have fallen. Moreover, you can pull some cash out of your home's equity to help with other expenses. Finally, while it is not always ideal, downsizing to a more affordable home or switching to a rental are another option.




How Much Should Be Saved in an Emergency Fund?
Most financial experts recommend that people contribute to an emergency savings fund to cover things like mortgage/rent payments, other bills, and basic needs in the case of a job loss, health emergency, or other crisis. While there is no consensus on exactly how much to save in an emergency fund, many advocate for at least 3-6 months' worth of living expenses.


   The Bottom Line  

Being house poor means spending a very large amount of monthly income on homeownership-related expenses. In order to calculate mortgage affordability, some experts recommend spending no more than 28% of your gross monthly income on housing expenses and no more than 36% on total debts. If this is not possible, there are also other options to cover extra expenses such as getting a second job, using savings, or even selling the property.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Past performance is not indicative of future performance. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is the House Price Index (HPI)?  

The House Price Index (HPI) is a broad measure of the movement of single-family property prices in the United States. Aside from serving as an indicator of house price trends, it also functions as an analytical tool for estimating changes in the rates of mortgage defaults, prepayments, and housing affordability.





Key Takeaways

The House Price Index is a broad measure of the movement of single-family house prices in the United States.It is published by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, using monthly and quarterly data supplied by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.The HPI is one of many economic indicators that investors use to keep a pulse on broader economic trends and potential shifts in the stock market.


   Understanding the House Price Index (HPI)  

The HPI is pieced together by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), using data supplied by the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), typically known as Fannie Mae, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. (FHLMC), commonly known as Freddie Mac.



The HPI is based on transactions involving conventional and conforming mortgages on single-family properties. It is a weighted repeat sales index, measuring average price changes in repeat sales or refinancings on the same properties.



An HPI report is published every quarter, as well as a monthly report. Data is compiled by reviewing mortgages purchased or securitized by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.





3.0%

The rise in home prices year-over-year between the second quarter of 2022 and the same period in 2023, as reported by the FHFA in August 2023.


   How the House Price Index (HPI) Is Used  

The HPI is one of many economic indicators that investors use to keep a pulse on broader economic trends and potential shifts in the stock market.



The rise and fall of house prices can have big implications for the economy. Price increases generally create more jobs, stimulate confidence, and prompt higher consumer spending. This paves the way for greater aggregate demand, boosting gross domestic product (GDP) and overall economic growth.



When prices fall, the opposite tends to happen. Consumer confidence is eroded and the companies profiting from the demand for real estate lay off staff. This can sometimes trigger an economic recession.


   The House Price Index (HPI) vs. the S&P CoreLogic Case-Shiller Home Price Indexes  

The HPI is one of many trackers of home prices. Some of the most well-known alternatives are the S&P CoreLogic Case-Shiller Home Price indexes.



These indexes utilize different data and measuring techniques and, therefore, produce varying results. For example, the HPI weights all homes equally, while the S&P CoreLogic Case-Shiller Home Price indices are value-weighted.



Moreover, while the Case-Shiller indexes only use purchase prices, the all-transactions HPI includes refinancing appraisals as well. The HPI also provides wider coverage.


   Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac  

As noted above, the HPI measures average price changes for homes that are sold or refinanced by looking at mortgages purchased or secured by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. That means loans and mortgages from other sources, such as the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), do not feature in its data.


  Fannie Mae  

Fannie Mae is a government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) that is listed on the public market yet operates under a congressional charter. The company's goal is to keep mortgage markets liquid. It does this by purchasing and guaranteeing mortgages from the actual lenders, such as credit unions, and local and national banks—Fannie Mae cannot originate loans directly.



The FNMA expands the liquidity of mortgage markets and facilitates homeownership for low-, moderate-, and middle-income Americans by creating a secondary market. Fannie Mae was created in 1938 during the Great Depression as part of the New Deal.


  Freddie Mac  

Like Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, or the FHLMC, is also a GSE. It purchases, guarantees, and securitizes mortgages to form mortgage-backed securities (MBS). It then issues liquid MBS that generally carry a credit rating close to that of U.S. Treasuries.



Given its connection with the U.S. government, Freddie Mac can borrow money at interest rates that are generally lower than those available to other financial institutions.




How Do You Tell if a House Is a Good Price?
To determine if a house is a good price, you can check the sale prices of recently sold properties in the neighborhood, compare the price with other properties for sale in the market, speak with a real estate agent, and consider the appreciation value.




Should I Offer the Full Asking Price on a House?
Knowing whether or not you should offer the full asking price on a house will come down to a few factors. One of the main factors is if the property being sold is in a buyer's market or a seller's market. If it is a seller's market, you may have to offer the full asking price or above, whereas, in a buyer's market, you may be able to offer a lower price. If you need to offer the full asking price or more, it is generally recommended to offer 1% to 3% more.




What Brings Down the Value of a House?
Many factors bring down the value of a house, such as any new planned construction in the area that would be seen as less than desirable, such as a highway. Foreclosures in the neighborhood would bring down prices as well as the increased likelihood of natural disasters in the area or a greater impact due to climate change. Even rising interest rates can bring down the value of a house, as the increase in mortgage rates makes homes more expensive, which reduces the demand.


   The Bottom Line  

The House Price Index (HPI) measures the movement of single-family home prices in the United States. It is reported monthly and measures the change from the previous month and year-over-year. It is an important economic indicator, shedding light on the state of the economy and housing affordability.
What Is a Household Employee?  

A household employee is an individual who is paid to provide a service within their employer's residence. Employers choose what kinds of work a household employee is responsible for and the manner in which that work is expected to be completed. Some examples of household employees (or household workers) include babysitters, nannies, and gardeners. Independent contractors such as repairmen, carpenters, and plumbers are not considered household employees.






The IRS doesn't require an employer to withhold federal income tax from a household employee's wages, but if the employee asks to have it withheld, the employer can.


   Understanding Household Employees  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) distinguishes between household employees and independent contractors based on whether the employer or taxpayer can determine not only the work that is performed but also how it is carried out. If the worker decides how they work and how a job is done, they are considered to be a self-employed worker, not a household worker. Such individuals provide their own tools and offer their services to the public as independent businesspeople.





Key Takeaways

Household employees work and provide all services at their employer's place of residence.The IRS sees a household employee as having work decided by an employer and an independent contractor as having work defined by the worker.Nannies, babysitters, housekeepers, and gardeners are all considered to be household employees.As of 2020, all new household employees must fill out the revised W-4 form, though those hired before 2020 do not need to fill out a new form.



Where someone works may decide whether they are a household employee or an independent contractor. For example, a childcare worker who performs their duties in an employer's home may be a household employee. But a worker who performs the exact same services in a daycare center would be employed by that daycare center.


   Examples of Household Employees  

If the worker is an employee, it does not matter if whether the work they perform is full-time or part-time or if they were found and hired with the use of an employment agency or via a list provided by an agency or labor organization. Household workers may be paid on an hourly, daily, weekly, or per-job basis.



Some common examples of household workers include the following: babysitters, caretakers, cleaning people, domestic workers, drivers, health aides, housekeepers, maids, nannies, private nurses, and yard workers.


   Special Considerations: Taxes  

As of 2021, individuals who hire household employees that they pay a total of more than $2,300 in cash wages during the tax year must pay Social Security, Medicare, and Federal Unemployment taxes on this employee's wages and may be required to pay taxes at the state level as well.



These taxes on household employees are commonly known as the "nanny tax." As of 2021, the withholding amount for Social Security taxes is 6.2% and the sum for Medicare taxes is 1.45% for a total of 7.65% total withheld from all cash wages. The employer also must match that 7.65% out of their own pocket, also for Social Security and Medicare. Some employers may choose to pay a total of 15.3% withholding themselves. While the tax implications of hiring a household employee may appear complex, there are many payroll services that can help automate some or all of the process.



As of 2020, new household employees must use the redesigned W-4 tax form upon hire, though those hired before 2020 do not need to fill out a new form.
What Are Household Expenses?  

Household expenses represent a per-person breakdown of general living expenses. They include the amount paid for lodging, food consumed within the home, utilities paid, and other costs. The sum of all the expenses is then divided by the number of family members residing in the house in order to find each member's share of the total expense.



Some household expenses qualify for tax deductions. For example, if you work from home and have an office there, you might qualify for the home office deduction.





Key Takeaways:

Household expenses represent a per-person breakdown of general living expenses.“Head of household" status for tax purposes gives you a larger standard deduction and lower tax rates. Household expenses can be largely categorized as home-related, child-related, transportation, and entertainment. 


   Understanding Household Expenses  

If you have "head of household" status, you can enjoy a larger standard deduction and lower tax rates. The items associated with household expenses include a broad range of recurring purchases.


   Types of Household Expenses  
  Home Expenses  

In addition to the cost of the housing, whether it is rent, a mortgage payment, or real estate taxes, fees for utilities such as electricity and gas as well as insurance for the property are also part of household expenses.



The needs of each person accounted for in the household also fall under these costs. These needs include the cost of prescription medicines and other healthcare fees.


  Child-Related Expenses  

Expenditures for education such as tutoring services, the purchase, and maintenance of school uniforms, textbooks, personal computers, stationery, and pens are all included as household expenses. Tuition, whether for private schools or universities, may be included as expenses carried by the household because the student typically relies on a parent or guardian to pay such fees.



Childcare services, such as hiring babysitters or paying for daycare for young children while parents are at work, are included in household expenses as well.


  Transportation Expenses  

Transportation fees, such as the cost of leasing or buying a car through installment payments, commuting costs to work, and other services used by members of the household to get around, such as taxis or buses, can be counted as expenses to the household. Legal fees for members of a household, whether for consulting services or litigation, may also be included as well.


  Entertainment Expenses  

Costs for leisure and pastimes might be part of a household's regular expenditures. Nights out to the movies or subscription television services are part of entertainment purchases for the household.



The money spent on vacations, costs to participate in hobbies such as procuring collectible items, and fees for club memberships also add to these expenses. However, the necessity of such expenditures may come into question when budgeting to maintain the necessities of a household, particularly if there is a decline in personal income. If household expenses surpass your capacity to pay them, increased debt and more extensive consequences may occur.



The Internal Revenue Service lists the expenses that qualify for a tax deduction. To claim a tax deduction, keep meticulous records and all receipts so that you are ready to fill out the required forms at tax time.
What Is Household Income?  

The term household income generally refers to the combined gross income of all members of a household above a specified age. Household income includes every member of a family who lives under the same roof, including spouses and their dependents. The incomes of everyone count even if they aren't all used to support the household. Household income also includes anyone living in that home even if they're not related. Household income is an important risk measure used by lenders for underwriting loans and is a useful economic indicator of an area's standard of living.





Key Takeaways

Household income is the combined gross cash income of all members of a household.The Census Bureau defines a household as a group of people living under the same roof whether they're related or not.Household income is used to evaluate the economic health of an area or to compare living conditions between geographic regions.The definition of household income may vary based on studies and government agencies/programs.Household income is one of three types of measures of wealth — the other two are family income and per capita income.


   Understanding Household Income  

Household income is defined as the total gross income before taxes, received within a 12-month period by all members of a household above a specified age. The Census Bureau notes this threshold as 15 and older. It includes (but is not limited to) wages, salaries, self-employment earnings, Social Security benefits, pensions, retirement income, investment income, welfare payments, and income from other sources.



The definition of household income and its components varies depending on the context. The term may be defined in law or regulation or may be determined by researchers or authors as an amount that includes or excludes specific items of income. Here are some examples:



In calculating household income, the U.S. Census Bureau includes all pre-tax cash income of all individuals age 15 years or older belonging to a household, regardless of whether they are related to each other. 
The Census Bureau reported that real U.S. median household income was $74,580 in 2022, the most recently available data.
Some programs and studies include the value of non-cash benefits or receipts, such as food stamps, in measuring household income. For example, the Congressional Budget Office adds non-cash income, particularly in-kind government benefits and services, to cash income in estimating total income.
In some contexts, such as different government programs and a wide range of economic surveys and studies, household membership may differ or the analysis may focus on individuals. For example, in determining who gets a subsidy to help pay for health insurance through the Affordable Care Act (ACA), the definition of household income includes “yourself, your spouse if you're married, plus everyone you'll claim as a tax dependent, including those who don’t need coverage.” Also, in determining eligibility for some public benefit programs, household income is calculated by deducting certain expenses or allowances from gross income.



Household income provides a picture of the standard of living of various households. It is also a good barometer of the local and national economies. This figure can also help lenders determine the potential risk of lending to a potential borrower. For instance, households with a lower income are more likely to default than those with higher earnings.


   Special Considerations  

The per capita gross domestic product (GDP) of a country should typically increase along with the median household income. In recent years, a divergence has been seen between these figures in the United States. In turn, this has led to discussions about referencing median household income as a better indicator of economic well-being than GDP.






Research shows that the average household income has risen since 1970. The largest increases are in households in upper-income brackets.


   Household Income vs. Family Income vs. Per Capita Income  

Household income is one of three commonly cited measures of individual wealth. The other two, family income and per capita income, take different approaches to measure how well people in a given area are doing financially. Here's how they stack up against one another.



Household income, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau, includes the gross cash income of all people ages 15 years or older occupying the same housing unit, regardless of how they are related, if at all. A single person occupying a dwelling alone is also considered a household.Family income considers only households occupied by two or more people related by birth, marriage, or adoption.Per capita income measures the income earned by each individual in a given area. Therefore, two-income earners in the same family or household are counted separately when measuring per capita income.


   Average Household Income vs. Median Household Income  

The range of households used to determine median and average household income may differ. Median is defined as being the middle number in a group. So if you have three incomes in one household of $35,000, $40,000, and $45,000, the median income is $40,000.



The Census Bureau counts households with no income in its calculation when it determines median household income in the United States. However, some other income analyses, particularly ones focusing on various average income statistics, use only positive income amounts.



When median and average amounts of household income are calculated for all U.S. households, the average figure will always exceed the median because of the impact of the small number of U.S. households with exceptionally high incomes.


   Example of Household Income  

Let's use a hypothetical example to show how household income works. Let's say Sam earns $120,000 annually from his job as a finance professional. His spouse Alex earns $80,000 as an analyst. Together, their family income is $200,000. Sam's nephew Jim also lives with them. Jim earns $40,000 as a sales rep. Assuming these figures are their only income, their total household income, as defined by the Census Bureau, is $240,000.




How Do You Define Household Income?
Household income is the total gross income received by all members of a household within a 12-month period. This figure comprises the earnings of everyone under the same roof who is age 15 or older, whether they're related or not. Sources include wages, salaries, retirement income, investment income, Social Security benefits, and earnings from other income sources.




What's the Difference Between Average Household Income and Median Household Income?
Average household income is the total amount of income earned by all members of a household age 15 or older, whether they are related or not. This figure is added together and divided by the total number of people under that roof.Median household income, on the other hand, is the number that falls in the middle of all incomes. So if there are five people in the house who earn $15,000, $35,000, $54,000, $65,000, and $79,000, the median household income is $54,000.




How Do You Calculate Household Income?
Gather all of the gross income of anyone age 15 or older. Make sure you include any type of income, such as wages, tips, bonuses, retirement income, and welfare payments. Social Security benefits, and others. Add these together to get the total household income. You can divide this figure by the total number of people in the household to get the average household income per person.


   The Bottom Line  

Income is any money that a person earns through work or by selling products and services. For most people, it refers to individual earnings through work. This can come in the form of salary, wages, tips, bonuses, and vacation pay. This is just one part of household income, which the Census Bureau defines as the gross income of all individuals under the same roof who are over 15. Not only does this figure provide a barometer of people's standards of living, but it can also be used for other purposes, such as assessing risk by lenders. You can calculate household income by adding every member's gross income together.
What Is the Housing and Economic Recovery Act (HERA)?  

The Housing and Economic Recovery Act (HERA) was drafted to address the fallout from the subprime mortgage crisis of 2008. HERA allowed the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) to guarantee up to $300 billion in new 30-year fixed-rate mortgages for subprime borrowers. To participate, lenders were required to write down the balances on principal loans up to 90% of their current appraised value.





Key Takeaways

The Housing and Economic Recovery Act (HERA) of 2008 was a piece of financial reform legislation passed by Congress in response to the subprime mortgage crisis.HERA allowed the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) to guarantee up to $300 billion in new 30-year fixed-rate mortgages for subprime borrowers.HERA is composed of several sub-statutes, including the Housing Assistance Tax Act, the FHA Modernization Act, and the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act.HERA established minimum down payment standards for FHA loans.


   Understanding the Housing and Economic Recovery Act (HERA)  

The Housing and Economic Recovery Act (HERA) was ultimately intended to renew public faith in government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) that provided home loans—namely, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It allowed states to refinance subprime loans with mortgage revenue bonds and created the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). As a new agency, the FHFA used its newfound authority to put Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac under conservatorship in 2008.



HERA also included a number of subtitle acts under the main act, including the:



Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008FHA Modernization Act of 2008Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008





Important

The goals of the Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac conservatorship include preventing the enterprises from needing another taxpayer bailout, ensuring mortgage credit availability for affordable housing and keeping the secondary mortgage market strong.


  Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008  

This subtitle act in HERA offered a refundable tax credit for qualified first-time homebuyers—related to purchases on or after April 9, 2008, and before July 1, 2009—equal to 10% of the purchase price of a principal residence, up to $7,500. It also eliminated the credit for taxpayers with incomes over $75,000 ($150,000 for joint returns).



For those receiving the tax credit, repayment was expected over 15 years via equal installments through a surcharge on the taxpayers’ annual income taxes. It also provided emergency assistance for the redevelopment of abandoned and foreclosed homes.


  FHA Modernization Act of 2008  

This subtitle act increased the FHA loan limit from 95% to 115% of area median home price, up to 150% of the GSE conforming loan limit. It also mandated a 3.5% down payment for all FHA loans and placed a 12-month moratorium on the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD’s) implementation of risk-based premiums.



It also prohibited seller-funded down payments while authorizing the FHA to insure up to $300 billion of 30-year fixed-rate refinance loans up to 90% of appraised value for distressed borrowers. Mortgage commitments made on or before Jan. 1, 2008, were covered under the act.



In addition, the act required existing mortgage holders to accept the proceeds of the insured loan as payment in full for all preexisting indebtedness. Lender participation in this program was voluntary.





Important

FHA loans may require a higher down payment of 10% for borrowers with credit scores below 580.


  Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008  

This part of the act required all states to implement a mortgage loan originator (MLO) licensing and registration system by Aug. 1, 2009 (or Aug. 1, 2010, for legislatures that meet biennially). States were allowed to operate their own systems, subject to stringent federal standards, or could participate in the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry (NMLS).






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think that you’ve been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps that you can take. One such step is to file a report with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) or HUD.




What did the Housing and Economic Recovery Act (HERA) do?
The Housing and Recovery Act (HERA) addressed some of the most important shortcomings of the mortgage lending industry following the 2008 financial crisis and housing collapse. The purpose of HERA is to prevent the circumstances that could result in a repeat of the crisis, including predatory lending.




Who created HERA?
HERA was passed by Congress as part of a joint effort to support recovery in the mortgage industry and restore confidence in both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. HERA was signed into law by then-President George W. Bush.




What agencies does the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) regulate?
The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) was established by HERA as an executive regulatory agency. The FHFA is responsible for supervising and regulating a number of entities, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as the Federal Home Loan Bank System.




What is Title V of HERA?
Title V of HERA mandates nationwide standards for licensing and registration of mortgage loan originators. This provision is designed to ensure that homebuyers are dealing with credible originators and lenders when seeking mortgage loans.


   The Bottom Line  

HERA was and is designed to promote a stable housing market for borrowers, lenders, and investors. If you own a home or plan to buy one, then HERA affects you whether you realize it or not. Being protected against predatory lending and unfair practices means that Americans can buy a home with confidence, without fearing a repeat of the 2008 housing crisis.
What Are Housing Authority Bonds?  

Housing authority bonds, or housing bonds, are issued by a state or local government agency to help finance the construction or rehabilitation of affordable rental housing. Under certain programs, the proceeds from such bonds also may be used to help low-income people purchase homes. The interest earned by investors on housing authority bonds is exempt from federal taxes, and may also be exempt from state and local income taxes.



Like most municipal bonds, housing authority bonds have historically been viewed as very safe investments. In this case, the bonds are backed by the federal government, which views them as a means of encouraging the construction of housing for low-income people.





Key Takeaways

Housing authority bonds, or housing bonds, are issued by a state or local government agency to help finance the construction or rehabilitation of affordable rental housing. State and local governments issue housing bonds to finance the construction or rehabilitation of affordable rental housing. In addition to repaying the bond principal, the state or locality must pay interest on the money it borrows. Like most municipal bonds, housing authority bonds have historically been viewed as very safe investments.


   Understanding Housing Authority Bonds  

A municipal authority may issue debt in the form of bonds to raise capital to finance projects. The two types of municipal bonds are general obligation bonds and revenue bonds. The interest payment and principal repayment of a general obligation (GO) bond are funded from the state or local government’s financial coffers.



These bonds are backed by the full faith and credit of the municipal government which may have the authority to increase taxes in order to fulfill its payment obligations on the GO bond. On the other hand, payment obligations on a revenue bond are backed by the projected revenue stream of the project for which the bond was issued. One form of a revenue bond is the housing bond.



State and local governments issue housing bonds to finance the construction or rehabilitation of affordable rental housing. In addition to repaying the bond principal, the state or locality must pay interest on the money it borrows. As private activity bonds (PABs), housing bonds can be issued on behalf of qualified profit and non-profit developers to finance low-income multifamily and senior housing projects.



Also, the proceeds from housing bonds may also be issued to provide low-cost mortgage financing to low-income families or individuals so they can purchase a home. Mortgages provided through housing bonds are restricted to first-time homebuyers who earn no more than the area median income. Furthermore, the price of a home purchased with a housing bond mortgage is limited to 90% of the average area purchase price.


   Special Considerations  

Housing bonds typically have low-interest rates and can be issued as either a fixed or variable rate demand obligation (VRDO). The principal and interest payments to bondholders are made from pledged mortgage repayments and investment earnings.



The repayments made on mortgages by borrowers are collected by the trustee of the housing bond who invests the funds in short-term investments until the scheduled time to pay interest to bondholders. In effect, payment on housing bonds is backed by the timely and consistent interest payment and principal repayment of the underlying mortgages by borrowers.



Housing bonds are beneficial to the state as well as to private investors. On the one hand, the government gains access to a large amount of cheap financing. On the other, the tax advantages offered by housing bonds are highly attractive to those in the upper tax brackets.



For investors, the interest paid by housing bonds is exempt from federal and sometimes state income tax. The higher the marginal tax rate, the more valuable a housing revenue bond's tax exemption is. Although investors subject to the alternative minimum tax (AMT) may be subject to taxes, the exemption means that investors in high federal-tax brackets benefit from revenue bonds and other municipal bonds. This tax exemption helps to compensate for the bonds' low-interest rate.



Federal low-income housing tax credits are another source of capital that may be used instead of or in addition to housing bonds in order to finance affordable housing projects. The credits are non-refundable federal income tax credits for part of the mortgage interest that qualified home buyers pay each year.



Because they entail government debt, the sale of housing authority bonds sometimes requires the approval of local voters. In 2018, for example, California voters approved a ballot measure to sell $4 billion in housing authority bonds to finance programs for low-income residents, veterans, and farm workers.
What Are Housing Bonds?  

Housing bonds are debt securities, a variation of municipal revenue bonds, issued by state or local governments to raise money for affordable housing development projects.





Key Takeaways

Housing bonds are debt securities, a variation of municipal revenue bonds, issued by state or local governments to raise money for affordable housing development projects.Housing bonds provide the government with cheap financing and the lender, especially those in the upper tax brackets, with tax advantages.Mortgages provided through housing bonds are restricted to first-time homebuyers who earn no more than the area median income and the price of a home purchased is limited to 90% of the average area purchase price.


   Understanding Housing Bonds  

State and local governments issue housing bonds to finance the construction or rehabilitation of affordable housing. In addition to repaying the bond principal, the state or locality must pay interest on the money it borrows. Housing bonds sometimes require voter approval and can either be short- or long-term issuances.



A municipal authority may issue debt in the form of bonds to raise capital to finance projects. The two types of municipal bonds are general obligation (GO) bonds and revenue bonds. The interest payment and principal repayment of general obligation bonds are funded from the state or local government's financial coffers. These bonds are backed by the full faith and credit of the municipal government, which may have the authority to increase taxes in order to fulfill its payment obligations on the GO bond. Meanwhile, payment obligations on a revenue bond are backed by the projected revenue stream of the project for which the bond was issued. A housing bond is one type of a revenue bond.



As private activity bonds (PABs), housing bonds can be issued on behalf of qualified profit and nonprofit developers to finance low-income multifamily and senior housing projects. Also, the proceeds from housing bonds may also be issued to provide low-cost mortgage financing to low-income families or individuals so they can purchase a home. 





1.1 million

The number of affordable homes financed with housing bonds using the Housing Credit.


   Requirements for Housing Bonds  

Mortgages provided through housing bonds are restricted to first-time homebuyers who earn no more than the area median income. Furthermore, the price of a home purchased with a housing bond mortgage is limited to 90% of the average area purchase price.



Housing bonds typically have low interest rates and can be issued as either a fixed or variable-rate demand obligation (VRDO). The principal and interest payments to bondholders are made from pledged mortgage repayments and investment earnings. The repayments made on mortgages by borrowers are collected by the trustee of the housing bond who invests the funds in short-term investments until the scheduled time to pay interest to bondholders. In effect, payment on housing bonds is backed by the timely and consistent interest payment and principal repayment of the underlying mortgages by borrowers.


   Benefits of Housing Bonds  

Housing bonds are beneficial to the state as well as to private investors. On the one hand, the government gains access to a large amount of cheap financing. On the other, the tax advantages offered by housing bonds are highly attractive to lenders in the upper tax brackets. 



For investors, the interest paid by housing bonds is exempt from federal and, at times, state income tax. The higher the marginal tax rate, the more valuable a housing revenue bond's tax exemption. Although investors subject to the alternative minimum tax (AMT) may be subject to taxes, the exemption means that investors in high federal-tax brackets benefit from revenue bonds and other municipal bonds. This tax exemption helps to compensate for the bonds' low interest rate.



Federal low-income housing tax credits are another source of capital that may be used instead of, or in addition to, housing bonds in order to finance affordable housing projects. The credits are nonrefundable federal income tax credits for part of the mortgage interest that qualified home buyers pay each year.
What Is a Housing Bubble?  

A housing bubble, or real estate bubble, is a run-up in housing prices fueled by demand, speculation, and exuberant spending to the point of collapse. Housing bubbles usually start with an increase in demand, in the face of limited supply, which takes a relatively extended period to replenish and increase. Speculators pour money into the market, further driving up demand. At some point, demand decreases or stagnates at the same time supply increases, resulting in a sharp drop in prices—and the bubble bursts.





Key Takeaways

A housing bubble a sustained but temporary condition of over-valued prices and rampant speculation in housing markets.The U.S. experienced a major housing bubble in the 2000s caused by inflows of money into housing markets, loose lending conditions, and government policy to promote home-ownership.A housing bubble, as with any other bubble, is a temporary event and has the potential to happen at any time market conditions allow it. 


   Understanding a Housing Bubble  

A housing bubble is a temporary event, but it can last for years. Usually, it’s driven by something outside the norm such as manipulated demand, speculation, unusually high levels of investment, excess liquidity, deregulated real estate financing market, or extreme forms of mortgage-based derivative products—all of which can cause home prices to become unsustainable. It leads to an increase in demand versus supply.



According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), housing bubbles may be less frequent than equity bubbles, but they tend to last twice as long.﻿﻿



Housing bubbles don't only cause a major real estate crash, but also have a significant effect on people of all classes, neighborhoods, and the overall economy. They can force people to look for ways to pay off their mortgages through different programs or may have them dig into retirement accounts to afford to live in their homes. Housing bubbles have been one of the main reasons why people end up losing their savings.


   What Causes a Housing Bubble?  

Traditionally, housing markets are not as prone to bubbles as other financial markets due to the large transaction and carrying costs associated with owning a house. However, a rapid increase in the supply of credit leading to a combination of very low-interest rates and a loosening of credit underwriting standards can bring borrowers into the market and fuel demand. A rise in interest rates and a tightening of credit standards can lessen demand, causing the housing bubble to burst.


   Mid-2000 U.S. Housing Bubble  

The infamous U.S. housing bubble in the mid-2000s was partially the result of another bubble, this one in the technology sector. It was directly related to, and what some consider the cause of, the financial crisis of 2007-2008. 



During the dotcom bubble of the late 1990s, many new technology companies had their common stock bid up to extremely high prices in a relatively short period of time. Even companies that were little more than startups and had yet to produce actual earnings were bid up to large market capitalizations by speculators attempting to earn a quick profit. By 2000, the Nasdaq peaked, and as the technology bubble burst, many of these formerly high-flying stocks came crashing down to drastically lower price levels.



As investors abandoned the stock market in the wake of the dotcom bubble bursting and subsequent stock market crash, they moved their money into real estate. At the same time, the U.S. Federal Reserve cut interest rates and held them down in order to combat the mild recession that followed the technology bust, as well as to assuage uncertainty following the World Trade Center attack of Sept. 11, 2001.﻿﻿



This flood of money and credit met with various government policies designed to encourage homeownership and a host of financial market innovations that increased the liquidity of real estate-related assets. Home prices rose, and more and more people got into the business of buying and selling houses.



Over the next six years, the mania over homeownership grew to alarming levels as interest rates plummeted, and strict lending requirements were all but abandoned. It is estimated that 20 percent of mortgages in 2005 and 2006 went to people who would not have been able to qualify under normal lending requirements. These people were dubbed subprime borrowers.﻿﻿ Over 75 percent of these subprime loans were adjustable-rate mortgages with low initial rates and a scheduled reset after two to three years.﻿﻿ 






Much like with the tech bubble, the housing bubble was characterized by an initial increase in housing prices due to fundamentals, but as the bull market in housing continued, many investors began buying homes as speculative investments.



The government’s encouragement of broad homeownership induced banks to lower their rates and lending requirements,﻿﻿ which spurred a home-buying frenzy that drove the median sales price of homes up by 55 percent from 2000 to 2007.﻿﻿ The home-buying frenzy drew in speculators who began flipping houses for tens of thousands of dollars in profits in as little as two weeks.



During that same period, the stock market began to rebound, and by 2006 interest rates started to tick upward.﻿﻿ Adjustable-rate mortgages began resetting at higher rates as signs that the economy was slowing emerged in 2007. With housing prices teetering at lofty levels, the risk premium was too high for investors, who then stopped buying houses. When it became evident to home buyers that home values could actually go down, housing prices began to plummet, triggering a massive sell-off in mortgage-backed securities. Housing prices would decline 19 percent from 2007 to 2009,﻿﻿ and mass mortgage defaults would lead to millions of foreclosures over the next few years.﻿﻿
What Is a Housing Expense Ratio?  

A housing expense ratio is a ratio comparing housing expenses to pre-tax income. Lenders often use it in qualifying borrowers for loans. A housing expense ratio may also be referred to as a front-end ratio.





Key Takeaways

The housing expense ratio is used to evaluate a borrower’s credit profile for a mortgage loan.This ratio analyzes a borrower’s ability to repay a mortgage debt on a home.Income ratios can keep borrowers with excellent credit from receiving approval for a mortgage. However, having a co-borrower, like a spouse, can lower a housing expense ratio.


   How a Housing Expense Ratio Works  

The housing expense ratio is one metric used when evaluating a borrower’s credit profile for a loan. It is most often considered in a mortgage loan when analyzing a potential borrower’s ability to repay the mortgage debt on a home.



This ratio is typically used in conjunction with debt-to-income when determining the maximum credit level to extend to a borrower. Income ratios are an essential component of the underwriting process and can keep a borrower from receiving credit approval even with a good credit score.






If you are considering a mortgage or other kind of loan, figuring out your housing expense ratio can be a useful tool to understand what amount of money you can afford to borrow.


   Housing Expense Ratio vs. Debt-to-Income Ratio  

The housing expense ratio is also referred to as the front-end ratio because it is a partial component of a borrower’s total debt-to-income and may be considered first in the underwriting process for a mortgage loan. The housing expense ratio requires disclosing a borrower’s pre-tax income, which is an essential factor for both the housing expense ratio and the debt-to-income ratio.



When calculating the housing expense ratio, an underwriter will sum all housing expense obligations of a borrower, including the potential mortgage principal and interest payments, property taxes, hazard insurance, mortgage insurance, and association fees.



The sum of the housing expenses is then divided by the borrower’s pre-tax income to arrive at the housing expense ratio. The housing expense ratio can be calculated using monthly payments or annual payments. The housing expense ratio threshold for mortgage loan approvals is typically 28%.﻿﻿


  Debt-to-Income  

Debt-to-income is also another critical component of loan approval. When you are considered for a mortgage loan, a credit issuer will obtain the average amount of money you pay to creditors every month. Then, the total is divided by a borrower’s monthly income to identify their debt-to-income ratio. Borrowers generally must have a debt-to-income ratio of 36% or less for loan approval.﻿﻿



Mortgage underwriters will consider the potential stress that a mortgage payment will add to a borrower’s credit profile. Therefore, when determining the maximum amount of mortgage credit available to a borrower, an underwriting analysis includes hypothetical scenarios of monthly mortgage payments and the potential effects on both the housing expense ratio and the debt-to-income ratio levels.


   Special Considerations  

A housing expense ratio higher than the standard 28% may be acceptable to lenders based on compensating factors such as a low loan-to-value ratio and/or an excellent credit history. Also, applying jointly with a co-borrower can lower a housing expense ratio, as can choosing certain mortgage products with initial low payments.



Borrowers thinking of a potential home loan purchase may want to use the 28% and 36% levels when planning their monthly budgets. Keeping monthly housing expenses at 28% of a borrower’s income can help to create an estimate for how much a borrower can afford to pay monthly on a mortgage. Generally, keeping total debt-to-income far below 36% can also make it easier for a borrower to obtain all types of credit and specifically mortgage credit when applying for a mortgage loan.﻿﻿
What Is the NAHB/Wells Fargo Housing Market Index (HMI)?  

The NAHB/Wells Fargo Housing Market Index (HMI) is a monthly sentiment survey of members of the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB). The index measures sentiment among builders of U.S. single-family homes, and is a widely watched gauge of the U.S. housing sector. Since housing represents is a large capital investment and spurs additional consumer spending on appliances and furnishings, housing market indices help to monitor the overall health of the economy.





Key Takeaways

The NAHB/Wells Fargo Housing Market Index is a widely watched gauge of sentiment among U.S. builders of single-family homes.Participating builders rate current single-family sales, sales prospects over the next six months, and the traffic of prospective buyers.HMI readings above 50 reflect a generally favorable market view and outlook in the industry.The three component indices of HMI are seasonally adjusted and weighted to achieve the highest correlation with housing starts over the next six months, based on historical data.


   Understanding the NAHB/Wells Fargo Housing Market Index (HMI)  

The National Association of Home Builders is a federation of more than 700 state and local associations with 140,000 members. About one-third are home builders and remodelers, and the rest professionals from related fields such as mortgage finance and building materials supply. NAHB builders account for some 80% of the new homes built in the U.S.



Since 1985, the HMI has been based on a monthly survey completed by NAHB builders, which was generating some 400 responses as of 2007. In completing the survey, builders rate housing market conditions and outlook based on their recent experience.



The HMI is a weighted average of three diffusion indexes, designed to range from 0 to 100. HMI readings above 50 reflect a generally favorable market view and outlook in the industry.



HMI fell to a record low of 8 in January 2009, and set a record high of 90 in November 2020.






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).


  Calculating the Housing Market Index  

The HMI is a weighted average of three component indices: current single-family sales, the outlook for sales over the next six months, and traffic of prospective buyers. Each month, participating builders rate current sales and the six-month outlook as good, fair, or poor and the buyer traffic as high to very high, average, or low to very low.



A diffusion index is calculated for each series by applying the formula (good - poor + 100) / 2 to the present and future sales series and (high/very high - low/very low + 100) / 2 to the prospective buyer traffic responses.



Each resulting index is then seasonally adjusted and weighted to generate the HMI. The weights are .5920 for present sales, .1358 for future sales, and .2722 for traffic. The weights were chosen based on historical data to maximize the correlation between the HMI and housing starts over the next six months.


   The Housing Market Index as an Economic Indicator  

The HMI displays a close correlation with U.S. single-family housing starts, which measure the number of privately-owned homes on which construction started in a given month. Housing starts are a key economic indicator and the report is supplied monthly by the U.S. Census Bureau.



As a gauge of home builder sentiment, the HMI provides valuable clues on the near-term direction of housing starts. The HMI is released at 10 a.m. EST typically on the 11th business day of the month, which is the day before the housing starts data are released by the Census Bureau.



The HMI has historically closely tracked housing starts and building permits. Its complete recovery from the depths of the 2008-2009 global financial crisis has outpaced the rebound in housing starts, however.
What Are Housing Starts?  

The term housing starts refers to the start of construction on a new residential housing unit.



Because new housing is a big-ticket capital good that spurs additional consumer spending on appliances and furniture, it is a key economic indicator closely watched by financial markets participants.



The U.S. Census Bureau publishes estimates of U.S. housing starts on the 12th business day of each month based on a survey of homebuilders partially funded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The New Residential Construction report also includes housing completions data as well as a count of building permits derived from a separate survey of building permit offices.





Key Takeaways

Housing starts are a measure of new residential construction, and are considered a key economic indicator.A housing start is counted as soon as groundbreaking begins, and each unit in a multi-family housing project is treated as a separate housing start.Seasonally adjusted data for the latest month is compared to figures from previous months.Monthly changes can be volatile, but the longer-term trend tracks a crucial sector for consumer spending and the broader economy.


   Understanding Housing Starts  

Housing is a key sector of the U.S. economy, and a crucial one for the banking, construction, and real estate industries. The health of the housing sector is also an important factor in employment as well as the price of commodities including lumber and copper.



Housing starts measure builders' willingness to expend resources on new projects, which in turn depends on their estimates of housing demand, so the trend in starts can also offer insights into risk appetite and consumer sentiment.



Because housing starts in parts of the U.S. are subject to big seasonal variations, the headline number in the monthly report is a seasonally adjusted annual rate, which adjusts the monthly total based on that seasonal factor and then calculates the annual starts rate at that pace.



Short-term weather disruptions such as storms or cold snaps can also have an effect on this volatile data series. The Census Bureau notes month-to-month changes in seasonally adjusted data can be irregular, and estimates it takes six months to establish the underlying rate for housing starts.



The report breaks out the national housing starts data by four U.S. regions: Northeast, Midwest, South, and West.


   What Counts as a Housing Start  

A housing start denotes groundbreaking, or excavation, for a home's foundation or footing. The monthly data is divided into three housing categories:



Single-family homesMulti-family housing of two to four unitsMulti-family housing with five or more units, such as apartment buildings



Data for single-family homes and multi-family housing with five or more units is provided on a seasonally adjusted as well as unadjusted basis, while that for multi-family housing with two to four units is provided only on an unadjusted basis.



Every unit in multi-family housing counts as a separate start, so the start of construction for an apartment building with 25 units would register as 25 new multi-family housing starts.



The New Residential Construction report measures starts for privately-owned housing, including units started by private developers for sale to local public housing authorities upon completion. Housing unit statistics exclude group quarters such as dormitories and rooming houses.






Each unit in an apartment building counts as a separate housing start.


   How the Housing Starts Data Is Gathered  

The Census Bureau estimates housing starts from a representative sample of building permits issued by a sample of local permitting offices, then tracks those projects through completion and sale.



The survey counts all housing starts with five or more units, but samples only about 2% of nationwide starts for housing with one to four units.



To account for sampling error among others, the monthly report provides error margins representing 90% confidence intervals for month-to-month and year-over-year changes.



For example, the initially reported 1.7% decline in single-family housing starts in March 2022 from the prior month had 90% confidence interval, or error margin, of plus or minus 12.3%, while the 4.4% decline for the same category from a year earlier had an error margin of 8.3%.


   The Bottom Line  

Housing is a key sector of the U.S. economy and the monthly housing starts report is a closely watched measure of its health. The month-to-month numbers are volatile and subject to large error margins, so it takes months of data to establish the underlying trend.






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
What Is a Housing Unit?  

A housing unit is a single unit within a larger structure that can be used by an individual or household to eat, sleep, and live. The unit can be in any type of residence, such as a house, apartment, or mobile home, and may also be a single unit in a group of rooms.



Essentially, a housing unit is deemed to be a separate living quarter where the occupants live and eat separately from other residents of the structure or building. They also have direct access from the building's exterior or through a common hallway.





Key Takeaways

A housing unit is one unit within a larger structure, such as a house, apartment, mobile home, or group of rooms, where a person or family eat, live, and sleep.Housing units are separate living quarters where the occupants live separately from other residents of the structure.Residential construction is the largest component of change in housing units.


   Understanding Housing Units  

Housing units are residential units found in different types of structures, including residential homes, apartments, and condominium buildings. They may also be multiple rooms in a large structure such as a hotel or motel. These units allow an individual or family to live, eat, and sleep separately from others—which is also why they're referred to as separate living quarters.



Residential construction, both permitted and non-permitted, is the largest component of change in housing units. More than 99% of all new housing units are built in places that issue building permits, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.



The following living quarters are generally not considered housing units and are not included in Census Bureau data:



Dormitories, bunkhouses, barracksTransient hotels and motels—except for those people who consider it their place of residenceQuarters in institutions, general hospitals, and military installations—there are exceptions including units that are occupied by staff members or resident employees


   Recording Housing Units  

Each year, the U.S. Census Bureau provides housing unit estimates for all counties and states. These estimates are used as controls for the tracking of population growth or loss for cities and towns.



Estimates start with the most recent census data, then add in the estimated amount of new residential construction and mobile homes. Next, the estimated housing units lost is subtracted and results in the annual estimate figure.






There were 143.8 million housing units in the U.S. in 2022, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.



There are three types of situations that determine the loss of a housing unit:



An interior exposed to the elementsDemolished unitA home—house or mobile—that's moved



The loss rate of homes in certain states is accelerating due to natural disasters. For example, California’s Butte County, the site of the Camp Fire wildfire in 2018, saw a 13.9% decline in housing units—from 100,074 to 86,209—between 2018 and 2019.


   Examples of Housing Units  

As noted above, there are many different types of housing units. For instance, single families can be converted into multiple units as illustrated by the following example:



A homeowner may decide to renovate their basement to accommodate a secondary suite. Once complete, the owner may rent out the unit to another individual or family, or offer the unit to members of their family. This dwelling becomes a separate housing unit.



Similarly, a developer may seek permits to construct an apartment complex on an empty piece of land. The apartments that are constructed are counted as separate housing units.
What Is the Howey Test?  

The Howey Test is four criteria an asset must meet to qualify as an "investment contract." If the asset is an "investment of money in a common enterprise, with a reasonable expectation of profits to be derived from the efforts of others" it is considered a security. It is then subject to disclosure and registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



The test applies to any contract, scheme, or transaction. The Howey Test is important for evaluating blockchain and digital currency projects when developers are fundraising. Certain cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings (ICOs) may be found to meet the definition of an "investment contract" under the test.





Key Takeaways

The Howey Test determines what qualifies as an "investment contract," subjecting the asset to U.S. securities laws.An investment contract exists if there is an "investment of money in a common enterprise with a reasonable expectation of profits to be derived from the efforts of others."The Howey Test is important for blockchain and digital currency projects conducting fundraising efforts with investors and project backers.Certain cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings (ICOs) may be found to meet the definition of an "investment contract" under the Howey Test.


   Understanding the Howey Test  

The Howey Test is based on a ruling from SEC v. W.J. Howey Co., which reached the Supreme Court in 1946. Howey Company sold tracts of citrus groves to buyers in Florida, who would then lease back the land to Howey. Company staff would tend to the groves and sell the fruit on behalf of the owners. Both parties shared in the revenue. Most buyers had no experience in agriculture and were not required to tend to the land themselves.



Howey had failed to register the transactions, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) intervened. The court's final ruling determined the leaseback arrangements qualified as investment contracts.



The opinion of the Supreme Court stated that "...an investment contract, for the purposes of the Securities Act means a contract, transaction or scheme whereby a person invests his money in a common enterprise and is led to expect profits solely from the efforts of the promoter or a third part..." This statement created the four criteria now used as the Howey Test:



An investment of moneyIn a common enterpriseWith the expectation of profitTo be derived from the efforts of others






In the case of Howey, the buyers of the Florida citrus groves saw the transactions as valuable primarily because the labor and expertise were provided by others. Buyers only needed to invest capital to access an income stream.


   Howey Test and Cryptocurrencies  

Digital currencies such as Bitcoin are notoriously difficult to categorize. They are decentralized and, as such, elude regulation in many ways. Nonetheless, the SEC has taken an interest in digital assets and has sought to clarify when their sale meets the definition of an investment contract.



According to the SEC, the "investment of money" test is easily satisfied with the sale of digital assets because fiat money or other digital assets are being exchanged with the expectation of profits or gains. Likewise, the "common enterprise" test is also easily met. The commission has repeatedly used the test to pursue legal action against cryptocurrency developers.


   Examples of Howey Test on Cryptocurrencies  

In July 2023, the Southern District of New York court released a summary judgment regarding the case SEC v Ripple, a blockchain developer with a popular cryptocurrency, XRP. The SEC had filed an action against Ripple in 2020 for an unlawful offer and sale of securities, while Ripple denied the accusations. Both parties petitioned for summary judgments regarding sales to institutional and retail investors.



The court ruled that Ripple and its coin, XRP, did not pass the Howey Test when the cryptocurrency was sold in a secondary sale, such as through an exchange. At the same time, it found that the sale did pass the Howey Test when XRP was offered to or purchased by institutional investors.



The court ruling remains controversial because the crypto industry declared victory while the SEC continued its efforts to regulate cryptocurrency using the Howey Test.



On July 13, 2023, the SEC filed a complaint against Celsius Network Limited for issuing unregistered securities and selling crypto asset securities. It then filed a complaint against Digital World Exchange, BoostedPro, and D.W. Exchange on July 21, 2023, for promoting, offering, and selling exchange tokens and crypto asset securities. It is possible the entities committed these acts, but the SEC clearly hasn't backed down from applying the test to cryptocurrencies.




How Do You Determine If Something Is a Security?
The U.S. Supreme Court uses the Howey Test to determine whether certain transactions qualify as "investment contracts." If transactions qualify as "investment contracts" under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, those transactions are considered securities.




Why Is Bitcoin Not a Security?
In June 2018, the former Chair of the SEC, Jay Clayton, clarified that Bitcoin is not a security: "Cryptocurrencies: These are replacements for sovereign currencies, replace the dollar, the euro, the yen with Bitcoin. That type of currency is not a security," said Clayton.Bitcoin, which has never sought public funds to develop its technology, does not pass the Howey Test used by the SEC to classify securities; however, by Clayton's definition, tokens used in an ICO are securities.




How Does the SEC Define a Security?
Securities are fungible and tradable financial instruments used to raise capital in public and private markets. The public sales of securities are regulated by the SEC.The definition of a security offering was established by the Supreme Court in a 1946 case called SEC v. W.J. Howey Co.


   The Bottom Line  

The Howey Test sets out the criteria for what counts as an investment contract, which then determines the laws and regulations that the contract needs to abide by as set out by the SEC. As cryptocurrencies have been an important asset in the last few years, regulators have sought ways to regulate them, often utilizing the Howey Test to make determinations.
What Is an HSA Custodian?  

An HSA custodian is any bank, credit union, insurance company, brokerage, or other Internal Revenue Service (IRS)-approved financial institution that offers health savings accounts (HSAs). 



Financial institutions that manage HSAs are also called HSA administrators. An HSA custodian or administrator holds HSA assets in a secure HSA account. In some instances, the account holder may direct how to invest the funds and may withdraw them for qualified medical expenses.





key takeaways

An HSA custodian refers to any bank, credit union, insurance company, brokerage, or other approved organizations that offer HSAs.They may also be called HSA administrators.HSAs were established by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003.


   Opening an HSA Account  

You can open an HSA through your employer. In this case, you might be automatically enrolled with a particular HSA custodian, with the option to switch. However, before doing so, you should ask your HR department how it would affect payroll withdrawals to fund your HSA account.



If you open an HSA on your own, you can choose the custodian. Your choice of HSA custodian is important because the interest you earn, the fees you pay, and the investment options available can have a significant impact on your HSA balance over time.



As with any financial account, you want to minimize your fees and maximize your returns. You also want to make sure your cash balances will be Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insured and your investments, if any, will be Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) insured.



An HSA differs from a flexible spending account (FSA), which is an employer-sponsored account that allows employees to set aside pretax dollars to pay for eligible healthcare expenses.






An HSA can't be rolled over into a 401(k) or an individual retirement account.


   A Closer Look at HSA Custodians  

Health savings accounts were created by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 to offer individuals with high-deductible health plans (HDHP) tax-preferred treatment of the money they save for medical expenses.



An HSA custodian makes it possible for individuals to contribute to an HSA and withdraw funds as needed to pay medical bills. Similar to a savings account, custodians pay interest on cash balances held in the HSA account. Some financial institutions let account holders invest in stocks, bonds, and funds for potentially higher rates of return on the money they don’t need to pay for medical expenses in the short term.






If you're investing in an HSA on your own, make sure you know what fees are involved, what investments you can make, and how much work you'll need to do to make changes to your account.


   The Cost of HSA Custodians  

HSA custodians charge fees for their services. Fee types and amounts vary by the custodian institution. Some basic, ongoing fees you might see include an annual administrative flat fee and a quarterly custodial fee calculated as a percentage of your account balance. There are also fees you can incur if you make mistakes, such as an excess contribution correction fee if your deposit exceeds the IRS annual limits for HSA accounts.



A person with single coverage can contribute as much as $3,650 in 2022 ($3,850 in 2023), while the limit for family coverage is $7,300 ($7,750 in 2023). However, a person who is 55 or older is eligible to contribute an extra $1,000.



There may also be fees to issue additional debit cards to family members or to replace lost or stolen debit cards. HSA custodians also charge many of the same fees that checking accounts charge, such as insufficient funds fees, account closure fees, and stop payment fees.


   Hypothetical Example of HSA Account Benefits  

Individuals may use their HSAs to lower their monthly premiums. Let's say someone currently has a low $2,000 deductible for their family coverage. In this case, the monthly premiums may be a relatively costly $800 per month. However, if that monthly deductible spikes to $5,000, then the monthly premium may shrink to as low as $500, saving $300 per month, essentially allowing them to pocket an extra $3,650 per year.
What Is a Hub and Spoke Structure?  

Hub and spoke structures are used by investment companies to pool assets, cut costs and improve efficiency. Several investment vehicles, each remaining individually managed, combine their assets and contributing to one central vehicle. This can also be called a master-feeder structure.



All of the funds in the system typically have the same investment objective and portfolio manager, or master fund that serves as the "hub". The smaller investment vehicles, or feeder funds, are referred to as the "spokes."





Key Takeaways

A hub and spoke structure, in investments, utilizes multiple portfolio managers or sub-funds, known as "spokes" or "feeders," that invest in a "hub," or "master fund."This structure is often used by investment companies to reduce costs and maintain efficiency.Each spoke is individually managed by particular fund managers, while the hub is managed by one portfolio manager utilizing an overarching investment strategy.


   Understanding a Hub and Spoke Structure  

A hub and spoke provides benefits to managers of investment funds by offering numerous efficiencies from their pooled structure. With a hub and spoke structure, capital is channeled to the master fund where all transactions are made, helping to reduce transaction costs.


  Business Development  

Hub and spoke structures can also accommodate a full range of feeder funds, providing greater incentive for business development. A fund can be marketed in different ways and to different investors using a multitude of spokes. Each spoke can charge different fees and therefore appeal to a wider array of investors, all the while operating as one investment portfolio. These funds are able to keep fund operating costs relatively low in comparison to their competitors due to the hub and spoke structure.



In addition, hub and spoke structures commonly include both U.S. and offshore funds, creating the ability to market the fund globally. These structures are set up as partnerships to service global investors. As a partnership, they can work cooperatively while still allowing for individual feeder fund registration in the U.S. and abroad.


  Accounting and Tax Benefits  

Accounting and financial reporting can be complicated in a hub and spoke fund structure. With this type of fund, all transactions, fees, and expenses are accounted for and paid from the master fund. Despite the complicated accounting for inflows and outflows to and from the master fund, its partnership structure allows each feeder fund to be managed individually with its own rules and registrations.



This is particularly beneficial in the case of taxes. Offshore funds often require different taxes on dividends and capital gains. In a hub and spoke structure, U.S. investors in an onshore fund would be unaffected by any obligations of the offshore fund and vice versa. The hub and spoke structure keeps all fund reporting, fees, and expenses segregated while still allowing for the greater benefit of economies of scale.


   Example of a Hub and Spoke Fund  

Several hub and spoke funds exist in the market. BlackRock is one fund manager broadly employing this fund structure in a variety of hub and spoke setups.



For example, they run the Master Treasury Strategies Institutional Portfolio, which is the hub, consisting of two spokes, the BlackRock Select Treasury Strategies Institutional Fund and the BlackRock Treasury Strategies Institutional Fund. Each of the feeder funds engages in a different investment strategy with a different portfolio manager.
What Is the Hubbert Curve?  

The Hubbert curve is a method for predicting the likely production rate of any finite resource over time. When plotted on a chart, the result resembles a symmetrical bell-shaped curve.



The theory was developed in the 1950s to describe the production cycle of fossil fuels. However, it is now considered to be an accurate model for the production cycle of any finite resource.





Key Takeaways

The Hubbert curve is a method for predicting the production rate of any finite resource.It was first developed in 1956 to explain production rates of fossil fuels.﻿﻿Today, the Hubbert curve is used across various resource sectors and has informed debate around the rate of change in global oil production rates. 


   How the Hubbert Curve Works  

The Hubbert curve was proposed by Marion King Hubbert in 1956 in a presentation to the American Petroleum Institute entitled “Nuclear Energy and the Fossil Fuels.” As its name suggests, Hubbert’s presentation was initially focused on the production of fossil fuels.﻿﻿ However, the Hubbert curve has since become a popular and widely accepted method for projecting the production rates of natural resources more generally.



Of special importance to investors is the Hubbert curve’s prediction about when the peak of resource production is likely to occur. When investing in a new project, such as an oil well, substantial upfront costs must be invested before the project begins generating a saleable product. In the case of oil wells, this includes drilling the well, putting in place key equipment, and covering personnel costs before the oil begins to flow. Once the key infrastructure is in place, production volumes will gradually accumulate before eventually beginning to decline once the oil in the well has been largely exhausted.



By combining factors such as the natural reserves of the well, the probability of discovering oil in a given region and the speed at which oil can be extracted from the ground, Hubbert’s model was able to predict when a well would reach its level of maximum production. In visual terms, this occurs in the middle of the curve, just before the depletion of the well causes production rates to decline.


   Real World Example of the Hubbert Curve  

Hubbert’s model works remarkably well both for individual projects and for entire regions. For instance, the Hubbert curve can be used to describe the entirety of global oil output as well as the regional production of areas such as Saudi Arabia or Texas. The general appearance and predictions of the model are strikingly similar and accurate in both cases.



Of course, in the real world, production rates will not appear as a perfectly symmetrical curve. Nevertheless, the Hubbert curve is widely used as a close approximation of actual production rates. Once such notable application is the so-called Hubbert Peak Theory, which has been used to predict peak oil production around the world.



According to some industry analysts, the Hubbert peak for oil production in the United States was reached in the 1970s, although there is little consensus on when the peak for global oil production will be reached. One reason for this disagreement is that new technologies for extracting oil may have pushed the date for any forced decline in production further into the future.
What is Hubbert's Peak Theory?  

Hubbert’s peak theory is the idea that because oil production is a non-renewable resource, global crude oil production will eventually peak and then go into terminal decline following a roughly bell-shaped curve. Although this model can be applied to many resources, it was developed specifically for oil production.





Key Takeaways

Hubbert's peak theory predicts the rise, peak, and decline of fossil fuel production. With revolutions in new technology, it will be longer than originally predicted before oil reserves run out.In the long run, fossil fuel resources are finite, so Hubbert's peak theory applies, but it does not appear to be a threat in the near term.


   Understanding Hubbert's Peak Theory  

Hubbert's peak theory is based on the work of Marion King Hubbert, a geologist who worked for Shell in the 1950s. It posits that maximum production from individual or global oil reserves will occur towards the middle of the reserve’s life cycle, according to the Hubbert curve, which is used by exploration and production (E&P) companies to estimate future production rates. After that, production decline accelerates due to resource depletion and diminishing returns. Accordingly, if new reserves are not brought online faster than extractable reserves are drawn down, the world will eventually reach peak oil—because there is a finite amount of conventional light, sweet crude in the earth’s crust.


   Implications of Peak Oil  

An impending peak in fossil fuel production would obviously have serious implications for the world economy. Increased fuel scarcity and rising energy costs would have a negative impact on virtually every industry and directly increase consumers’ cost of living. Spikes in world oil prices are often accompanied by economic recessions; a permanent, sustained increase in prices due to a long-term decline in available oil reserves might lead to corresponding economic malaise. It could even raise the specter of stagflation and declining standards of living worldwide.       


   A Technological Revolution in Oil Production  

But Hubbert’s predictions that U.S. oil production would peak in the 1970s, and that the world would hit peak oil around the year 2000, were proven wrong. In actuality, a technological revolution in the oil business has increased recoverable reserves and boosted recovery rates from new and old wells.



Thanks to hi-tech digital oil exploration using 3D seismic imaging, which enables scientists to see miles below the seabed floor, proven reserves around the world are growing all the time, as new oil fields are discovered. Offshore drilling in the 1950s could reach a depth of 5,000 feet. Today, the most advanced offshore oil rigs have the technology to drill up to 50,000 feet.



The state of Texas has led the U.S. in crude oil production every year but one since 1970. In 1972, the state's annual production rose to slightly more than 1.26 billion barrels. Thanks to innovations like hydraulic fracturing, enhanced oil recovery (EOR), and horizontal drilling, in 2019, annual production increased to more than 1.8 billion barrels. These innovations have added trillions of cubic feet of gas and billions of barrels of oil to America’s recoverable reserves. While the U.S. has become a net exporter of petroleum products (such as distillate fuel, motor gasoline, and jet fuel), it remains a net importer of crude oil.






Hi-tech digital oil exploration using 3D seismic imaging has enabled oil companies to discover new oil fields.


   No More Peak Oil?  

The oil industry no longer talks about running out of oil, thanks to companies like Schlumberger. For the foreseeable future, there are abundant quantities of oil. According to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy 2020, the world's total proven oil reserves are estimated to be around 1.73 trillion barrels, as of the end of 2019. However, this number is likely to rise because most of the world has yet to be explored using the latest technologies.



Nor are we anywhere close to peak energy. There are more than 1 trillion tons of proven coal reserves worldwide—enough to last around 150 years at current rates of production. There are 201.34 trillion cubic meters of proven natural gas reserves—enough to last at least 50 years. And there may be 3.0 trillion tons of methane hydrates, which is enough natural gas to fuel the world for a thousand years, according to the U.S. Geological and Geophysical Service.



These known and estimated reserves indicate that the peak in fossil fuel production is apparently a long way off in the future. However, given the current understanding of the origin of fossil fuels, it is virtually inescapable that total reserves are a finite resource. Peak oil represents a future threat, depending on how long it takes us to reach the peak, how rapidly production will decline post-peak, and whether and how fast fossil fuels can be replaced by other energy sources. For now, though, Hubbert’s peak theory does not appear to present a significant economic challenge in the near term.
What Is Hubris?  

Hubris is the characteristic of excessive confidence or arrogance, which leads a person to believe that they may do no wrong. The overwhelming pride caused by hubris is often considered a flaw in character.



In the financial world, hubris is considered a dangerous quality that emboldens an investment professional to take risks beyond what is appropriate for their situation. While such risks may pay off at times, any person who shows such behavioral flaws can easily find their gains erased by dramatic losses.



Hubris can cause short-sighted, irrational, or harmful behavior since the person does not stop to examine their behavior or consider the opinions of or effects on others when behaving. Hubris often causes humiliation to whom it is directed.





Key Takeaways

Hubris is an excess of confidence or arrogance in oneself that often leads to a lack of self-awareness and harmful or self-defeating behaviors.Hubris is often found in very successful individuals, due to the nature of their positions.When hubris becomes all-consuming, it frequently leads to an individual's downfall.Overcoming hubris is possible with practical techniques and increased self-awareness.Humility is an important tool to combat hubris and should be evaluated/implemented frequently. 












 wsfurlan / Getty Images


   How Hubris Works  

When aiming to be successful, most individuals utilize a meaningful process of thought and execution. A person affected by hubris will jump into a situation without questioning their methods. The lack of adequate processing and planning often ends in eventual failure.



Hubris may be developed after a person encounters a period of success. Corporate executives and traders overcome by hubris may become a liability for their firms. A manager might start making business decisions without fully thinking through the consequences, or a trader may begin taking on excessive risk. In many cases, people overcome by hubris will bring about their downfall.



Chief executive officers (CEOs) and very successful business people who are overcome with hubris tend to be difficult to work in team settings. They lack the ability to consider the opinions of others when they conflict with their own. This inconsideration is because they believe they always know best.


  Bad for Investing  

Investors and traders can also experience hubris with detrimental effects.  A lot of investors are overconfident and think they know better than the experts or even the market. Just being well-educated and/or clever does not mean you wouldn't benefit from good, independent advice. Also, it doesn't mean you can outwit the pros and a complex system of markets either. Many investors have lost fortunes by being convinced that they were better than the rest.



Hubris may come in the form of overconfidence in 1) the quality of information and 2) the perceived skill or ability to act at the right time for maximum gain. Indeed, studies show that overconfident traders trade more frequently and fail to appropriately diversify their portfolios.



One study analyzed trades from 10,000 clients at one discount brokerage firm. The study wanted to ascertain if frequent trading led to higher returns. After backing out tax-loss trades and others to meet liquidity needs, the study found that the purchased stocks underperformed the sold stocks by 5% over one year and 8.6% over two years. In other words, the more active the retail investor, the less money they make.



This study was repeated numerous times in multiple markets and the results were always the same. The authors concluded that traders are "basically paying fees to lose money."






It is essential to differentiate hubris and confidence from one another. Having a realistic amount of confidence in oneself is crucial to long-term success, while hubris can be detrimental.


   Hubris vs. Self-Confidence  

Hubris and self-confidence can be confused as to some they appear the same however they are quite different. Some may say that all those who exhibit hubris are full of self-confidence and that is true. However, not all those who have self-confidence exhibit hubris.



One of the most important differentiating factors between the two is that those who show hubris are arrogant. They believe that cannot fail because they are too skilled or lucky for that to happen. Those with self-confidence believe they have the skills or luck, but that is backed up by evidence proving so. They are not blind to risk or adversity as those with hubris are.



Those who show self-confidence usually show an additional trait that those with hubris do not: humility. Humility can be a very useful tool for not only CEOs but any type of person as it can not only keep arrogance in check, but will provide a much clearer picture of that individual's skills, successes, and failures when compared to the blinders that are on when someone is full of hubris.


   Special Considerations   

It is crucial to overcome hubris in oneself to avoid damaging professional relationships. To overcome hubris, seek out knowledge that will assist in doing so, such as books and self-help guides.



Reforming thought patterns by considering the consequences hubris causes to others is an effective way to initiate positive changes. Hubris can be quelled by adequately bestowing praise and credit when working in a group setting.



It is of utmost importance to stay self-aware during periods of success. Be vigilant in remembering that current accomplishments do not mean that future hardships can not occur.


   Examples of Hubris in Literature  

Hubris exists everywhere, but it is often best exemplified through literary works. A well-known example of Hubris occurs in Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein. The protagonist of the story is Victor. Victor’s hubris is demonstrated in his venture to become a scientist who is unrivaled by any other. In the end, his hubris leads only to catastrophe.



In the novel Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen, the character of Mr. Darcy has an exorbitant amount of pride in his social status and himself. His hubris leads him to unfairly judge his eventual love interest Elizabeth, to the point where he nearly loses her. Only after a transformation of self is Mr. Darcy able to overcome his hubris and win Elizabeth’s heart.



Outside of fiction, there are (and have always been) several examples of academics and scholars of finance at the best universities who really are brilliant—technically speaking. Their purported stature in the field and brilliance, however, can delude them into thinking that the pickings are easy out there in the real world.



Some really do cut it, but others are in for a rude awakening beyond the ivory tower. Odd as it may sound, someone with a Ph.D. in finance may, in fact, lead you in the wrong direction, while someone with no more than a high school diploma may have an amazing feel for the market and make a fortune.


   Examples of Hubris in Investing  

One of the most famous examples of hubris in investing is the saga of Nick Leeson. Nick was a head derivatives trader for Barings Bank and was operating in Singapore. Nick was assigned to make arbitrage trades for the bank and because he was so successful in the past, he was given a very powerful position with no oversight.



Making such trades requires placing bets on both sides of the trade in order to hedge against losses. However, Nick thought he understood everything about arbitrage trading in the markets he was involved in, so he only placed bets on one side of the trade, not both.



By doing so, he left himself wide open to enormous losses. Eventually, these losses occurred and not only was Nick arrested, but the bank he worked for, Barings Bank, was bankrupted as a result.



On a larger scale, Enron Corp. believed they would be able to fool both investors and regulators when they hid the true nature of their financials through sophisticated accounting schemes. When the company was finally outed and was forced to report the true financial picture of the company, the stock imploded in a spectacular fashion, dropping from over $90 to just over $0.25.




What Is the Difference Between Arrogance and Hubris?
The two are closely related and are synonyms of the other. Arrogance tends to be one's excessive pride relating to how they are better than others, whereas hubris is extremely self-belief in one's abilities, and may have nothing to do with others at all.




What Is Hubris in a Person?
Hubris is defined as "excessive pride or self-confidence," and is seen most commonly in people who believe they are able to complete a task they are not skilled enough to do. There is a lot of crossover between hubris and arrogance, but hubris tends to be more related to one's extreme self-confidence in their abilities.




What Is an Example of Hubris?
An example of hubris in everyday life can be a CEO thinking that because they invented one great product that they cannot fail, a lawyer who thinks they can't lose a case, or a doctor who refuses to listen to patients because they believe they know everything and the patient nothing. Icarus, from Greek mythology, is a classic example of hubris. Icarus flew too close to the sun and his wings melted, and he fell to earth.




Is Hubris Positive or Negative?
Hubris is a negative trait. Those exhibiting or imbued with hubris will be seen as extremely arrogant and usually out of touch.




Who Was Hubris in Greek Mythology?
Hubris was not the name of the spirit but rather "Hybris," whose name changed over time to what it is now. Hubris was not a person but Hybris, the Greek goddess, personified insolence, hubris, violence, reckless pride, and arrogance.


   The Bottom Line  

Hubris is not a useful trait. Many powerful people believe that due to their past successes they are not able to fail. This mindset almost inevitably leads to their downfall, and it can be traced back through history touching many different leaders in both business and politics.
What Is a HUD-1 Form?  

A HUD-1 form, also called a HUD-1 Settlement Statement, is a standardized mortgage lending document. Creditors or their closing agents use this form to create an itemized list of all charges and credits to the buyer and to the seller in a consumer credit mortgage transaction. A HUD-1 form is most commonly used for reverse mortgages and mortgage refinance transactions.



As of Oct. 3, 2015, the Closing Disclosure form replaced the HUD-1 form for most real estate transactions; however, if you applied for a mortgage on or before Oct. 3, 2015, you would receive a HUD-1. Real estate transactions that do not involve a seller, such as a refinancing, may use a HUD-1A form.



Now, for most kinds of mortgage loans, borrowers receive a form called the Closing Disclosure instead of a HUD-1 form. Either form must be reviewed by the borrower before the closing, in order to prevent errors or any unplanned expenses.





Key Takeaways

The HUD-1 form, listing all closing costs, is given to all parties involved in reverse mortgage and mortgage refinance transactions.Since late 2015, a different form, the Closing Disclosure, is prepared for the parties involved in all other real estate transactions.Both must be reviewed by the borrower before the closing in order to prevent errors or surprises.


   Understanding a HUD-1 Form  

The HUD-1 lists all costs related to closing the transaction. Federal law requires the form to be used as a standard real estate settlement form in reverse mortgage and mortgage refinance transactions.



The law also requires that borrowers be given a copy of the HUD-1 at least one day prior to settlement, although figures can be added, corrected, or updated up to the time the parties are seated at the closing table.



Most buyers and sellers review the form with a real estate agent, attorney, or settlement agent. On the HUD-1 form, buyers are referred to as "borrowers" even if there is no loan involved.


   What's Included in a HUD-1 Form?  

Oddly, the HUD-1 is meant to be reviewed verso, or reverse side, first. The reverse side has two columns: The left-hand column itemizes the borrower's charges and the right-hand column itemizes the seller's charges.



The borrower's list includes charges related to the mortgage, such as a loan origination fee, discount points, payment for a credit report, and fees for the appraisal and flood certification. It also may include any prepaid interest charges, homeowner's insurance fees, property taxes, owner's and lender's title insurance, and the closing agent's fees.



The itemized seller list may itemize the real estate commission, any contractually agreed-upon credit to the buyer, and mortgage pay-off information. The seller's itemized charges typically are lower than the buyer's charges.



The figures on the HUD-1 verso (back page) are added up, and the totals are carried to the form's recto, or front side. The amount of cash required to be paid by the borrower and the amount to be paid to the seller appear at the bottom of the front page.


   Special Considerations  

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 requires lenders to provide borrowers of all types of mortgages (other than reverse mortgages and mortgage refinances) with a Closing Disclosure form.






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).



Borrowers must be provided with the disclosure three days before closing. This five-page form includes finalized figures for all closing fees and costs to the borrower, as well as the loan terms, the projected monthly mortgage payments, and closing costs.



The three days are meant to allow the borrower to ask the lender questions and clear up any discrepancies or misunderstandings regarding costs before closing.




Are HUD-1 Forms Still Used?
HUD-1 forms are still used for reverse mortgages and refinancing. The government form used to be used by settlement agents to list all the charges that borrowers and sellers were responsible for in any real estate deal. The HUD-1 form was replaced by the Closing Disclosure form in 2015.




What Is a Reverse Mortgage?
A reverse mortgage is a type of loan for individuals aged 62 and older. The equity in a home can be used to borrow against in order to receive a lump-sum payment, a fixed stream of income, or a line of credit. The amount borrowed becomes due when the homeowner dies, relocates, or sells the home.




When Do I Get a Closing Disclosure?
The law requires that you receive your Closing Disclosure at least three days prior to closing. Closing Disclosures are not applicable for reverse mortgages or mortgages before Oct. 3, 2015.
What Is Hungarian Forint (HUF)?  

The term Hungarian forint (HUF) refers to the official and national currency of Hungary. The forint is issued and managed by Magyar Nemzeti Bank, the country's central bank. The currency code in international markets for the forint is HUF and it is represented by the symbol Ft. The currency was introduced in Hungary in 1946. Banknotes are issued in denominations ranging between Ft500 and Ft20,000 while the bank mints coins ranging in value from Ft5 to Ft200.





Key Takeaways

The Hungarian forint is the national currency of Hungary.Introduced in 1946, the forint is issued and maintained by Magyar Nemzeti Bank the country's central bank.It is represented by the symbol Ft and the currency code HUF.Banknotes range in value from Ft500 and Ft20,000 while coins are minted between values of Ft5 to Ft200.While it is an EU member, Hungary hasn't adopted the euro.


   Understanding Hungarian Forint (HUF)  

The forint is Hungary's national and only official currency. It is issued by the country's central bank, the Hungarian National Bank, which is commonly known as Magyar Nemzeti Bank. Established in 1924, the bank is responsible for maintaining the forint's value and controlling its circulation. Its main objectives are to "achieve and maintain price stability" while using monetary policy to support the federal government's economic policies.



The forint is denoted in the foreign exchange market as Ft and is commonly referred to by its abbreviation HUF. It is not pegged to any currency and no currencies are pegged to it either. Along with the euro, the currency's top currency exchange is the U.S. dollar.



Forint banknotes are issued in denominations of 500, 1,000, 2,000, 5,000, 10,000, and 20,000 forints. Coins are issued in denominations of 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, and 200 forints. Bills are printed by the Hungarian Banknote Printing Company while coins are minted by the Hungarian Mint. One forint is divided into 100 fillér. These coins were removed from circulation in 1999 due to high inflation.





Ft346.43

The equivalent of one U.S. dollar as of April 2022.


   Special Considerations  

Hungary joined the European Union (EU) in 2004. There was significant support to join the union at the time when the country applied 10 years earlier. Hungary still doesn't use the euro, though, and hasn't set a target date to make the switch because the federal government and the central bank are reluctant to adopt the common currency. In fact, Hungary's central bank governor Gyorgy Matolcsy described the euro as a "trap" and a "strategic error."



In addition to Hungary, other European countries that don't use the euro include Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Poland, and Romania, though the European community is seeking more thorough economic integration.The 2007-08 financial crisis and the European sovereign debt crisis magnified the dangers of joining the eurozone, in which 19 of the 27 EU member countries adopted the single currency. By giving up control of their own monetary policy, countries such as Greece and Spain have been unable to devalue their currencies in order to stimulate economic growth.






Although the euro isn't used in Hungary, some merchants accept it—notably large hotels and merchants. The exchange rate is generally lower than most exchange offices. Change is normally given in forints.


   History of the Hungarian Forint (HUF)  

The Hungarian forint was first used between 1868 and 1892. But it wasn't until 1946 that the modern forint was introduced. It was meant to stabilize the national economy following World War II. The name comes from the gold coins of Florence called fiorino d'oro, which were struck beginning in 1252 and used throughout the Austro-Hungarian empire.



The currency's exchange rate has been stable to some extent. But uncertainty in the nation's economy has plagued the value of the forint in the foreign exchange market. For instance:



The acceptance of the 1920 Treaty of Trianon following World War I had a series of devastating effects on the economy, not to mention the loss of more than 70% of its pre-war territory and over 60% of its pre-war population.
Of Hungary’s 10 largest cities prior to World War I, five were incorporated by neighboring countries. Saddled by war reparations and the loss of much of their tax base, the HUF lost almost all its value. At its peak in 1923, annualized inflation reached nearly 1,200%.
From 1988 and into the early 1990s, many central and eastern European countries—including Hungary—broke with the communist rule. The transition, prompted by inflation and stagnation, was peaceful. Hyperinflation reached 35% during the 1990s when it adopted a market economy. The economy did make some improvements in the 2000s even though inflation was so high that the currency lost its ability to be converted.



Hungary relies on a skilled labor force to drive its export-oriented economy. Major trading partners include Germany, Slovakia, Italy, Romania, and Austria. Top industries include car and car parts manufacturing and producing components for radios and televisions.



According to World Bank data, Hungary reported gross domestic product (GDP) growth of -4.7% in 2020 and 5.1% inflation in 2021. This was primarily due to the economic fallout that resulted from the global COVID-19 pandemic.
What Is a Hulbert Rating?  

A Hulbert rating is a score that tracks the performance of an investment newsletter over time. Investment newsletters are paid subscriptions that can offer investors a variety of market-related information, such as trading strategies, stock recommendations, and economic commentary. Some newsletters focus on specific industries or types of trading, such as options trading, investing in utilities, precious metals investing, or cryptocurrency investing. Hulbert Ratings, LLC assigns Hulbert ratings and encourages investors to judge a newsletter by its long-term performance adjusted for risk.





Key Takeaways

A Hulbert rating is an investment newsletter score created by financial advisor Mark Hulbert to track the performance of investment newsletters over time.The Hulbert rating tracks the buy and sell advice of investment newsletters and evaluates performance using various metrics to arrive at a risk-adjusted performance score.For nearly 36 years, Hulbert published newsletter rating scores in the Hulbert Financial Digest, which was acquired by MarketWatch/Dow Jones in April 2002.In 2016, MarketWatch/Dow Jones ceased publishing the Hulbert Financial Digest, at which time Mark Hulbert began publishing newsletter ratings through the company Hulbert Ratings, LLC.Hulbert publishes a newsletter honor roll that lists and grades investment newsletters that have outperformed in both up and down markets.


   How a Hulbert Rating Works  

The Hulbert ratings of investment newsletters are determined by maintaining hypothetical investment portfolios according to the buy and sell advice of each newsletter. Hulbert Ratings, LLC then tracks the performance of the newsletter by multiple metrics, culminating in a Sharpe ratio, a measure of risk-adjusted performance.



Financial advisor and contrarian investor Mark Hulbert began tracking newsletter performance in the Hulbert Financial Digest in 1980. After nearly 36 years, and a couple of high-profile acquisitions, Hulbert Financial Digest was officially laid to rest in Jan. 2016. Hulbert immediately formed Hulbert Ratings LLC, which picked up where the digest left off and which continues to track newsletter performance. Newsletters pay Hulbert Ratings LLC a flat fee to be tracked and audited.



Hulbert establishes an impartial evaluation of each newsletter by subscribing under someone else’s name to prevent the newsletter from sending their tips early and inflating the performance of the hypothetical portfolio. Some newsletters are less specific in their calls to action than others are. For those, Hulbert Ratings, LLC must infer buy and sell advice to track returns.






Aside from their value as an impartial review of newsletter performance, the very existence of Hulbert ratings helps keep newsletters (also known as market letters) honest about their performance.


   Special Considerations  

Hulbert ratings appear on the performance scoreboards published on the Hulbert Ratings LLC website. The site publishes performance scoreboards that show newsletter ratings for the most recent 12-month period and historical ratings over the trailing 3, 5, 10, 15, 20, and 30 years. Listed newsletter performance ratings go as far back as the inception of the service in 1980.


  Newsletter Honor Roll  

The Hulbert Investment Newsletter Honor Roll lists those investment newsletters that have produced above-average performance in both up and down markets. The list grades each newsletter's performance during up and down periods, showing the gain for each newsletter since April 2000.



Each newsletter is given a risk number, which reflects the volatility of the newsletter’s performance, as measured by the standard deviation of its monthly returns. Additionally, each newsletter is given a risk-adjusted performance number calculated using the Sharpe ratio.


   Are Investment Newsletters Worth It?  

After decades of Hulbert ratings, one thing is clear. Most newsletters, like most actively managed mutual funds, underperform the market. Hulbert himself has come to agree with the conventional but hard-to-follow wisdom that, for all the sophisticated hedging techniques and analytical instruments available, an investor’s best bet is to dump a sum of money into an index fund and hold it. Hulbert has even gone so far as to suggest that virtually all changes investors make to their portfolios are mistakes.



That said, Hulbert has defended newsletters as useful given the weakness of human psychology. Specifically, Hulbert views the average investor as incapable of following the index fund strategy, because the average investor will panic in a down market and end up selling low. Hulbert prefers consistently following a suboptimal strategy, namely acting on the buy and sell advice of an investment newsletter, compared to inconsistently following the optimal strategy, which is to invest in an index fund and hold during downturns.



Not everyone agrees, but when deciding on investment strategies investors should remember the truism that most actively managed funds and portfolios underperform the market.
What Is the Hull-White Model?  

The Hull-White model is a single-factor interest model used to price interest rate derivatives. The Hull-White model assumes that short rates have a normal distribution and that the short rates are subject to mean reversion. Volatility is thus likely to be low when short rates are near zero, which is reflected in a larger mean reversion in the model.



The Hull-White model extends the Vasicek Model and Cox-Ingersoll-Ross (CIR) model.





Key Takeaways

The Hull-White model is an interest rate derivatives pricing model.This model makes the assumption that very short-term rates are normally distributed and revert to the mean.The Hull-White model calculates the price of a derivative security as a function of the entire yield curve rather than a single rate.


   Understanding the Hull-White Model  

An interest rate derivative is a financial instrument with a value that is linked to the movements of an interest rate or rates. Interest rate derivatives are often used as hedges by institutional investors, banks, companies, and individuals to protect themselves against changes in market interest rates, but they can also be used to increase or refine the holder's risk profile or to speculate on rate moves. These may include interest rate caps and floors.



Investments whose values are dependent upon interest rates, such as bond options and mortgage-backed securities (MBS), have grown in popularity as financial systems have become more sophisticated. Determining the value of these investments often entailed using different models, with each model having its own set of assumptions. This made it difficult to match the volatility parameters of one model with another model, and also made it difficult to understand risk across a portfolio of different investments.


   Special Considerations  

Like the Ho-Lee model, the Hull-White model treats interest rates as normally distributed. This creates a scenario in which interest rates are negative, though there is a low probability of this occurring as a model output.



The Hull-White model also prices the derivative as a function of the entire yield curve, rather than at a single point. Because the yield curve estimates future interest rates rather than observable market rates, analysts will hedge against different scenarios that economic conditions might create.



Unlike the Hull-White model, which uses the instantaneous short rate, or the Heath-Jarrow-Morton (HJM) model, which uses the instantaneous forward rate, the Brace Gatarek Musiela Model (BGM) model only uses rates that are observable; i.e., forward LIBOR rates. 


   Who Are Hull and White?  

John C. Hull and Alan D. White are finance professors at the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto. Together they developed the model in 1990. Professor Hull is the author of Risk Management and Financial Institutions and Fundamentals of Futures and Options Markets. Professor White, also recognized internationally as an authority on financial engineering, is the Associate Editor of the Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis and the Journal of Derivatives.
What Is Human Capital?  

The term human capital refers to the economic value of a worker's experience and skills. Human capital includes assets like education, training, intelligence, skills, health, and other things employers value such as loyalty and punctuality.



As such, it is an intangible asset or quality that isn't (and can't be) listed on a company's balance sheet. Human capital is perceived to increase productivity and thus profitability. The more investment a company makes in its employees, the chances of its productivity and success become higher.





Key Takeaways

Human capital is an intangible asset not listed on a company's balance sheet.Human capital is said to include qualities like an employee's experience and skills.Since all labor is not considered equal, employers can improve human capital by investing in the training, education, and benefits of their employees.Human capital is perceived to have a relationship with economic growth, productivity, and profitability.Like any other asset, human capital has the ability to depreciate through long periods of unemployment, and the inability to keep up with technology and innovation.


   Understanding Human Capital  

An organization is often said to only be as good as its people from the top down, which is why human capital is so important to a company. It is typically managed by an organization's human resources (HR) department, which oversees workforce acquisition, management, and optimization. Its other directives include workforce planning and strategy, recruitment, employee training and development, and reporting and analytics.



The concept of human capital recognizes that not all labor is equal. But employers can improve the quality of that capital by investing in employees. This can be done through the education, experience, and abilities of employees. All of this has great economic value for employers and for the economy as a whole.



Since human capital is based on the investment of employee skills and knowledge through education, these investments in human capital can be easily calculated. HR managers can calculate the total profits before and after any investments are made. Any return on investment (ROI) of human capital can be calculated by dividing the company’s total profits by its overall investments in human capital.



For example, if Company X invests $2 million into its human capital and has a total profit of $15 million, managers can compare the ROI of its human capital year-over-year (YOY) in order to track how profit is improving and whether it has a relationship to the human capital investments.


   Special Considerations  

Human capital tends to migrate, especially in global economies. That's why there is often a shift from developing places or rural areas to more developed and urban areas. Some economists have dubbed this a brain drain or human capital flight. This describes the process that keeps certain areas underdeveloped while others become even more developed.


  Human Capital and Economic Growth  

There is a strong relationship between human capital and economic growth, which is why it can help boost the economy. That's because people come with a diverse set of skills and knowledge. This relationship can be measured by how much investment goes into people’s education.



Some governments recognize that this relationship between human capital and the economy exists, and so they provide higher education at little or no cost. People who participate in the workforce with higher education will often have larger salaries, which means they can spend more.


  Does Human Capital Depreciate?  

Like anything else, human capital is not immune to depreciation. This is often measured in wages or the ability to stay in the workforce. The most common ways human capital can depreciate are through unemployment, injury, mental decline, or the inability to keep up with innovation.



Consider an employee who has a specialized skill. If they go through a long period of unemployment, they may be unable to keep these levels of specialization. That's because their skills may no longer be in demand when they finally reenter the workforce.






An individual's human capital may depreciate if they can't or won't adopt new technology or techniques. Conversely, the human capital of someone who does adopt them will.


   History of Human Capital  

The idea of human capital can be traced back to the 18th century. Adam Smith referred to the concept in his book An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations, in which he explored the wealth, knowledge, training, talents, and experiences of a nation. Adams suggested that improving human capital through training and education leads to a more profitable enterprise, which adds to the collective wealth of society. According to Smith, that makes it a win for everyone.



In more recent times, the term was used to describe the labor required to produce manufactured goods. But the most modern theory was used by several different economists including Gary Becker and Theodore Schultz, who invented the term in the 1960s to reflect the value of human capacities.



Schultz believed human capital was like any other form of capital to improve the quality and level of production. This would require an investment in the education, training, and enhanced benefits of an organization's employees.


   Criticism of Human Capital Theories  

The theory of human capital has received a lot of criticism from many people who work in education and training. In the 1960s, the theory was attacked primarily because it legitimized bourgeois individualism, which was seen as selfish and exploitative. The bourgeois class of people included those of the middle class who were believed to exploit those of the working class. The theory was also believed to blame people for any defects that happened in the system and of making capitalists out of workers.




What Are Examples of Human Capital?
Examples of human capital include communication skills, education, technical skills, creativity, experience, problem-solving skills, mental health, and personal resilience.




What Is the Relationship Between Human Capital and the Economy?
Human capital allows an economy to grow. When human capital increases in areas such as science, education, and management, it leads to increases in innovation, social well-being, equality, increased productivity, improved rates of participation, all of which contribute to economic growth. Increases in economic growth tend to improve the quality of life for a population.




How Can I Increase My Human Capital?
Ways to increase your own human capital include more education, automating finances to improve efficiency, expanding your horizons outside of your social and workplaces, obtaining more experience, increasing participation in a multitude of activities or organizations, improving your communication skills, improving your health, and expanding your network.




What Is Human Capital Risk?
Human capital risk refers to the gap between the human capital requirements of a company or organization and the existing human capital of its workforce. This gap can lead a company towards inefficiencies, inability to achieve its goals, a poor reputation, fraud, financial loss, and eventual closure. To reduce and eliminate human capital risk, an organization should train, foster, and support its workforce.


   The Bottom Line  

Human capital refers to the economic value of a worker's abilities and skills. Companies can enhance their human capital through recruitment or training, as well as by implementing management techniques that optimize the productivity of their existing workers. Maintaining and improving the value of human capital is usually the role of a company's HR department.
What Is the Human Development Index (HDI)?  

The Human Development Index (HDI) is a statistic developed and compiled by the United Nations since 1990 to measure various countries’ levels of social and economic development. It is composed of four principal areas of interest: mean years of schooling, expected years of schooling, life expectancy at birth, and gross national income (GNI) per capita.



This index is a tool used to follow changes in development levels over time and compare the development levels of different countries.





Key Takeaways

The Human Development Index (HDI) is a measurement system used by the United Nations to evaluate the level of individual human development in each country.It was introduced by the U.N. in 1990.The HDI was created to emphasize that people and their capabilities should be the ultimate criteria for assessing the development of a country, not economic growth alone.The HDI uses components such as average annual income and educational expectations to rank and compare countries.The HDI has been criticized by social advocates for not representing a broad-enough measure of quality of life and by economists for providing little additional useful information beyond simpler measures of the economic standard of living.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding the Human Development Index (HDI)  

The HDI was established to place emphasis on individuals—or, more precisely, on their opportunities to realize satisfying work and lives. Evaluating a country’s potential for individual human development provides a supplementary metric for evaluating a country’s level of development besides considering standard economic growth statistics, such as gross domestic product (GDP).



This index also can be used to examine the various policy choices of nations; if, for example, two countries have approximately the same GNI per capita, then the HDI can help to evaluate why they produce widely disparate human development outcomes. Proponents of the HDI hope it can be used to stimulate such productive public policy debate.


   How Is the HDI Measured?  

The HDI is a summary measurement of basic achievement levels in human development. The computed HDI of a country is an average of indexes of each of the life aspects that are examined: knowledge and understanding, a long and healthy life, and an acceptable standard of living. Each of the components is normalized to scale between 0 and 1, and then the geometric mean of the three components is calculated.



The health aspect of the HDI is measured by the life expectancy, as calculated at the time of birth, in each country, and normalized so that this component is equal to 0 when life expectancy is 20 and equal to 1 when life expectancy is 85.
Education is measured on two levels: the mean years of schooling for residents of a country, and the expected years of schooling that a child has at the average age for starting school. These are each separately normalized so that both 15 mean years of schooling and 18 years of expected schooling equal 1, and a simple mean of the two is calculated.
The economic metric chosen to represent the standard of living is GNI per capita based on purchasing power parity (PPP), a common metric used to reflect average income. The standard of living is normalized so that it is equal to 1 when GNI per capita is $75,000 and equal to 0 when GNI per capita is $100.



The final HDI score for each country is calculated as a geometric mean of the three components by taking the cube root of the product of the normalized component scores.






Switzerland scores the highest among 191 nations in the most recent HDI rankings from the U.N.


   HDI Rankings  

Top HDI scores go heavily to Northern European countries, while the lowest-scoring nations are largely found on the African continent.



The top 25 countries by the latest HDI rankings (as of 2022) include:










Top 25 HDI Rankings


 Rank
Country
HDI Score




1
Switzerland
0.962


2
Norway
0.961


3
Iceland
0.959


4
Hong Kong
0.952


5
Australia
0.951


6
Denmark
0.948


7
Sweden
0.947


8
Ireland
0.945


9
Germany
0.942


10
Netherlands
0.941


11
Finland
0.940


12
Singapore
0.939


13
Belgium
0.937


14
New Zealand
0.937


15
Canada
0.936


16
Liechtenstein
0.935


17
Luxembourg
0.930


18
United Kingdom
0.929


19
Japan
0.925


20
South Korea
0.925


21
United States
0.921


22
Israel
0.919


23
Malta
0.918


24
Slovenia
0.918


25
Austria
0.916






The bottom 5 countries were:










Bottom 5 HDI Rankings


 Rank
Country
HDI Score




 187
Burundi
0.426


 188
Central African Republic
0.404


 189
Niger
0.400


 190
 Chad
0.394


 191
South Sudan
0.385





   Limitations of the HDI  

There are criticisms of the HDI. It is a simplification and an admittedly limited evaluation of human development. The HDI does not specifically reflect quality-of-life factors, such as empowerment movements or overall feelings of security. In recognition of these facts, the U.N. Human Development Report Office (HDRO) provides additional composite indices to evaluate other life aspects, including inequality issues such as gender disparity or racial inequality.



Examination and evaluation of a country’s HDI are best done in concert with examining these and other factors, such as the country’s rate of economic growth, expansion of employment opportunities, and the success of initiatives undertaken to improve the overall quality of life within a country.



Several economists say the HDI is essentially redundant as a result of the high correlations among the HDI, its components, and simpler measures of income per capita. GNI per capita (or even GDP per capita) correlates very highly with both the overall HDI and the other two components in both values and rankings. Given these strong and consistent correlations, they say, it would be simpler and clearer to just compare per-capita GNI across countries than to spend time and resources collecting data for the additional components that provide little or no additional information for the overall index.



Indeed, a fundamental principle of the composite index design is to not include multiple additional components that are strongly correlated in a way that suggests that they might reflect the same underlying phenomenon. This is to prevent inefficient double counting and avoid introducing additional sources of potential errors in the data.



In the case of the HDI, the inclusion of the components is problematic because it is easily plausible that higher average incomes directly lead to both more investment in formal education and better health and longevity. Moreover, definitions and measurement of years of schooling and life expectancy can vary widely from country to country.




What Are the Indicators Used in the Human Development Index (HDI)?
The Human Development Index (HDI) measures each country’s social and economic development by focusing on the following four factors: mean years of schooling, expected years of schooling, life expectancy at birth, and gross national income (GNI) per capita.




Is a High HDI Good or Bad?
The higher the HDI, the better. A high HDI essentially means that the country in question offers a generally high standard of living, with decent healthcare, education, and opportunities to earn money.




Which Countries Have the Highest HDI?
In the latest HDI ranking, from 2022, Switzerland finished first with an HDI value of 0.962. Norway, Iceland, Hong Kong, and Australia rounded out the top five. Meanwhile, the United States was ranked just 21st with an HDI value of 0.921.


   The Bottom Line  

The United Nations' Human Development Index (HDI) seeks to quantify a country's level of prosperity based on both economic and non-economic factors. Non-economic factors include life expectancy, and educational attainment. Economic factors are measured by gross national income (GNI) per-capita. While the U.N. argues that the HDI improves our understanding of relative well-being around the world, economists have criticized the index as overly simplistic and flawed in its methodology.
What Is the Human-Life Approach?  

The human-life approach is a method of calculating the amount of life insurance a family would need based on the financial loss they would incur if the insured person in the family were to pass away today.





Key Takeaways

The human-life approach is a method of calculating how much life insurance is needed for a family that is based upon their financial loss when the insured person in the family passes away.There are a number of factors taken into consideration when calculating the human-life approach, such as the age of the insured, gender, planned retirement age, annual wages, benefits, and so on.The human-life approach is primarily applicable to families with working individuals and stands in contrast to the needs approach.It is important to replace all of the income lost when an employed family member dies when using the human-life approach.When calculating a life insurance policy for the human-life approach, there are many factors to consider to ensure that a family will not be left in financial distress, such as expected future earnings and length of time the money is needed.


   Understanding the Human-Life Approach  

The human-life approach is usually calculated by taking into account a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the insured individual's age, gender, planned retirement age, occupation, annual wage, employment benefits, as well as the personal and financial information of the spouse and/or dependent children.



Since the value of a human life has economic value only in its relation to other lives, such as a spouse or dependent children, this method is typically only used for families with working family members. The human-life approach contrasts with the needs approach.



When using the human-life approach, it's necessary to replace all of the income that's lost when an employed family member dies. This figure includes after-tax pay and makes adjustments for expenses (like a second car) incurred while earning that income. It also considers the value of health insurance or other employee benefits.


   The Human-Life Approach Calculation  

When determining the life insurance amount needed for a family, there are many important factors to consider. It is imperative to spend the appropriate time assessing the many variables involved so that a family can ensure that it will be taken care of and will not be in any sort of financial distress if a family member passes away. The following are five key steps in calculating life insurance needs for the human-life approach.



Step One: Estimate the insured’s remaining lifetime earnings, taking into consideration both the “average” annual salary and potential future increases, which will have a significant impact on life insurance requirements.



Step Two: Subtract a reasonable estimate of annual income taxes and living expenses spent on the insured. This provides the actual salary needed to provide for family needs, minus the presence of the insured. As a rule of thumb, this figure should be close to about 70% of the pre-death income, although this number may vary from family to family, depending on individual budgets.



Step Three: Determine the length of time for which earnings will need to be replaced. This time period could be until the insured’s dependents are fully grown, and no longer require financial support, or until the insured's assumed retirement age.



Step Four: Select a discount rate for future earnings. A conservative figure for this estimate would be the assumed rate of return on U.S. Treasury bills or notes. This is needed because a life insurance company will leave a death benefit in an interest-bearing account.



Step Five: Multiply the net salary needed by the length of time needed to determine the future earnings. Then, using the assumed rate of return, figure out the present value of future earnings.


   Example of the Human-Life Approach  

Consider a 40-year-old that makes $65,000 per year. After following the above steps, it is determined that the family needs $48,500 per year to support itself if the 40-year old individual passes away, and must do so until what the retirement age of the individual would have been. In this case, 25 years away till 65. Assuming a 5% discount rate, the present value of this 40-year-old's future net salary over 25 years would be $683,556.
What Is Human Resource Planning (HRP)?  

Human resource planning (HRP) is the continuous process of systematic planning to achieve optimum use of an organization's most valuable asset—quality employees. Human resources planning ensures the best fit between employees and jobs while avoiding manpower shortages or surpluses.



There are four key steps to the HRP process. They include analyzing present labor supply, forecasting labor demand, balancing projected labor demand with supply, and supporting organizational goals. HRP is an important investment for any business as it allows companies to remain both productive and profitable.





Key Takeaways

Human resource planning (HRP) is a strategy used by a company to maintain a steady stream of skilled employees while avoiding employee shortages or surpluses.Having a good HRP strategy in place can mean productivity and profitability for a company.There are four general steps in the HRP process: identifying the current supply of employees, determining the future of the workforce, balancing between labor supply and demand, and developing plans that support the company's goals.












Michela Buttignol


   What Is Human Resource Planning (HRP) Used For?  

Human resource planning allows companies to plan ahead so they can maintain a steady supply of skilled employees. The process is used to help companies evaluate their needs and to plan ahead to meet those needs.



Human resource planning needs to be flexible enough to meet short-term staffing challenges while adapting to changing conditions in the business environment over the longer term. HRP starts by assessing and auditing the current capacity of human resources.



Here, identifying a company's skill set and targeting the skills a company needs enables it to strategically reach business goals and be equipped for future challenges. To remain competitive, businesses may need advanced skills or to upskill their employees as the market environment evolves and changes.



To retain employees and remain competitive, HRP often looks at organizational design, employee motivation, succession planning, and increasing return on investment overall.


   Challenges of Human Resource Planning (HRP)  

The challenges to HRP include forces that are always changing. These include employees getting sick, getting promoted, going on vacation, or leaving for another job. HRP ensures there is the best fit between workers and jobs, avoiding shortages and surpluses in the employee pool.



To help prevent future roadblocks and satisfy their objectives, HR managers have to make plans to do the following:



Find and attract skilled employees.Select, train, and reward the best candidates.Cope with absences and deal with conflicts.Promote employees or let some of them go.



Investing in HRP is one of the most important decisions a company can make. After all, a company is only as good as its employees, and a high level of employee engagement can be essential for a company's success. If a company has the best employees and the best practices in place, it can mean the difference between sluggishness and productivity, helping to lead a company to profitability.


   What Are the Four Steps to Human Resource Planning (HRP)?  

There are four general, broad steps involved in the human resource planning process. Each step needs to be taken in sequence in order to arrive at the end goal, which is to develop a strategy that enables the company to successfully find and retain enough qualified employees to meet the company's needs.


  Analyzing labor supply  

The first step of human resource planning is to identify the company's current human resources supply. In this step, the HR department studies the strength of the organization based on the number of employees, their skills, qualifications, positions, benefits, and performance levels.


  Forecasting labor demand  

The second step requires the company to outline the future of its workforce. Here, the HR department can consider certain issues like promotions, retirements, layoffs, and transfers—anything that factors into the future needs of a company. The HR department can also look at external conditions impacting labor demand, such as new technology that might increase or decrease the need for workers.


  Balancing labor demand with supply  

The third step in the HRP process is forecasting the employment demand. HR creates a gap analysis that lays out specific needs to narrow the supply of the company's labor versus future demand. This analysis will often generate a series of questions, such as:



Should employees learn new skills?Does the company need more managers?Do all employees play to their strengths in their current roles?


  Developing and implementing a plan  

The answers to questions from the gap analysis help HR determine how to proceed, which is the final phase of the HRP process. HR must now take practical steps to integrate its plan with the rest of the company. The department needs a budget, the ability to implement the plan, and a collaborative effort with all departments to execute that plan.






Common HR policies put in place after this fourth step may include policies regarding vacation, holidays, sick days, overtime compensation, and termination.


   What Is the Goal of Human Resource Planning (HRP)?  

The goal of HR planning is to have the optimal number of staff to make the most money for the company. Because the goals and strategies of a company change over time, human resource planning must adapt accordingly. Additionally, as globalization increases, HR departments will face the need to implement new practices to accommodate government labor regulations that vary from country to country.



The increased use of remote workers by many corporations will also impact human resource planning and will require HR departments to use new methods and tools to recruit, train, and retain workers.




Why Is Human Resource Planning Important?
Human resource planning (HRP) allows a business to better maintain and target the right kind of talent to employ—having the right technical and soft skills to optimize their function within the company. It also allows managers to better train the workforce and help them develop the required skills.




What Is "Hard" vs. "Soft" Human Resource Planning?
Hard HRP evaluates various quantitative metrics to ensure that the right number of the right sort of people are available when needed by the company. Soft HRP focuses more on finding employees with the right corporate culture, motivation, and attitude. Often these are used in tandem.




What Are the Basic Steps in HRP?
HRP begins with an analysis of the available labor pool from which a company can draw. It then evaluates the firm's present and future demand for various types of labor and attempts to match that demand with the supply of job applicants.


   The Bottom Line  

Quality employees are a company's most valuable asset. Human resource planning involves the development of strategies to ensure that a business has an adequate supply of employees to meet its needs and can avoid either a surplus or a lack of workers.



There are four general steps in developing such a strategy: first, analyzing the company's current labor supply; second, determining the company's future labor needs; third, balancing the company's labor needs with its supply of employees; and fourth, developing and implementing the HR plan throughout the organization.



A solid HRP strategy can help a company be both productive and profitable.
What Is Human Resources (HR)?  

Human resources (HR) is the division of a business that is charged with finding, recruiting, screening, and training job applicants. It also administers employee benefit programs.



HR plays a key role in helping companies deal with a fast-changing business environment and a greater demand for quality employees in the 21st century.





Key Takeaways

Human resources (HR) is the division of a business responsible for finding, recruiting, screening, and training job applicants.HR departments also handle employee compensation, benefits, and terminations.Human resource management (HRM) strategies focus on actively advancing and improving an organization's workforce with the long-term goal of improving the organization itself.HR departments must keep up to date with laws that can affect the company and its employees.Many companies have moved traditional HR administrative duties such as payroll and benefits to outside vendors.


   Understanding Human Resources (HR)  

John R. Commons, an American institutional economist, first coined the term “human resource” in his book The Distribution of Wealth, published in 1893. However, it was not until the 20th century that HR departments were formally developed and tasked with addressing misunderstandings between employees and their employers.



An HR department is an essential component of any business, regardless of an organization’s size. It is tasked with maximizing employee productivity and protecting the company from any issues that may arise within the workforce.



HR responsibilities include compensation and benefits, recruitment, retention, firing, and keeping up to date with any laws that may affect the company and its employees.


   Key HR Activities  

Research conducted by The Conference Board (CB), a member-driven economic think tank, found six key, people-related activities that HR must effectively do to add value to a company. They are:



Managing and using people effectively
Tying performance appraisal and compensation to competencies
Developing competencies that enhance individual and organizational performance
Increasing the innovation, creativity, and flexibility necessary to enhance competitiveness
Applying new approaches to work process design, succession planning, career development, and interorganizational mobility
Managing the implementation and integration of technology through improved staffing, training, and communication with employees


   HR Management Strategies  

Beginning in the 1980s, there was a push for strategic initiatives within HR departments. This movement was based on research related to the impact of employee-related issues on a firm’s long-term business success.



Collectively, these strategies are sometimes referred to as human resource management (HRM) strategies. HRM is a comprehensive approach to managing employees and an organization’s culture and environment. It focuses on the recruitment, management, and general direction of the people who work in an organization.



An HR department that adopts HRM strategies typically plays a more active role in improving an organization’s workforce. It may recommend processes, approaches, and business solutions to management.



Google is one example of an organization that has adopted a more active approach to employee relations through its HR department. The company offers many employee perks, including on-site wellness centers, on-site meals and snacks, fitness centers, massage programs, and ergonomic support. For Google, happy employees are equivalent to productive employees.






In 1901, National Cash Register Co., known today as NCR Corp., established what is thought to have been the first personnel department (the HR predecessor) to manage wages, workplace safety, and employee concerns.


   HR Outsourcing  

Since the mid-20th century, some companies have outsourced some of the more traditional administrative, transactional HR functions in an effort to free the department to recommend and implement more meaningful, value-adding programs that impact the business in positive ways.



Functions that may be outsourced in this process include:



Payroll administrationEmployee benefitsRecruitmentBackground checksExit interviewsRisk managementDispute resolutionSafety inspectionOffice policies



The use of modern tools, such as recruitment software, can help to improve the efficiency of HR departments. In turn, that can give them more leeway to focus on adding ever-greater value.




What Is the Role of Human Resources?
A human resources department is focused on the recruitment and retention of employees within a company. HR typically finds, hires (and fires), and trains employees. It oversees employee relations and manages benefit programs. It’s the place where an employee goes with questions about their position at the company, to address concerns, and to air grievances.




What Is Human Resource Management (HRM)?
Human resource management (HRM) is a strategic approach to managing company employees, the work culture, and the work environment so that people can function as effectively and productively as possible. Typically, it involves using metrics to measure workforce success.




What Are the 5 Types of Human Resources?
There are numerous important human resources functions carried out by an HR department. Five well-known types of responsibilities are:Recruiting, hiring, and onboarding new employeesHandling employee compensation and benefitsOffering employee job/career developmentAddressing work-related issues of individual employeesDeveloping policies that affect a working environment company-wide


   The Bottom Line  

A company’s human resources (HR) department manages the life cycle of each employee—from recruitment and onboarding to training and termination or retirement. HR departments also must monitor industry trends and rules to stay on top of compliance and legal issues.



Increasingly, HR departments focus on human resource management, using strategic investments and initiatives to improve an organization's workforce. The long-term goal of HRM is to create a more positive, loyal, and productive workforce, which ultimately benefits the company.
What Is a Humped Yield Curve?  

A humped yield curve is a relatively rare type of yield curve that results when the interest rates on medium-term fixed income securities are higher than the rates of both long and short-term instruments. Also, if short-term interest rates are expected to rise and then fall, then a humped yield curve will ensue. Humped yield curves are also known as bell-shaped curves.





Key Takeaways

A humped yield curve occurs when medium-term interest rates are higher than both short- and long-term rates.A humped curve is uncommon, but may form as the result of a negative butterfly, or a non-parallel shift in the yield curve where long and short-term yields fall more than intermediate one.Most often yield curves feature the lowest rates in the short-term, steadily rising over time; while an inverted yield curve describes the opposite. A humped curve is instead bell-shaped.


   Humped Yield Curves Explained  

The yield curve, also known as the term structure of interest rates, is a graph that plots the yields of similar-quality bonds against their time to maturity, ranging from 3 months to 30 years. The yield curve, thus, enables investors to have a quick glance at the yields offered by short-term, medium-term, and long-term bonds. The short end of the yield curve based on short-term interest rates is determined by expectations for the Federal Reserve policy; it rises when the Fed is expected to raise rates and falls when interest rates are expected to be cut. The long end of the yield curve is influenced by factors such as the outlook on inflation, investor demand and supply, economic growth, institutional investors trading large blocks of fixed-income securities, etc.



The shape of the curve provides the analyst-investor with insights into the future expectations for interest rates, as well as a possible increase or decrease in macroeconomic activity. The shape of the yield curve can take on various forms, one of which is a humped curve.



When the yield on intermediate-term bonds is higher than the yield on both short-term and long-term bonds, the shape of the curve becomes humped. A humped yield curve at shorter maturities has a positive slope, and then a negative slope as maturities lengthen, resulting in a bell-shaped curve. In effect, a market with a humped yield curve could see rates of bonds with maturities of one to 10 years trumping those with maturities of less than one year or more than 10 years.


   Humped vs. Regular Yield Curves  

As opposed to a regularly shaped yield curve, in which investors receive a higher yield for purchasing longer-term bonds, a humped yield curve does not compensate investors for the risks of holding longer-term debt securities.



For example, if the yield on a 7-year Treasury note was higher than the yield on a 1-year Treasury bill and that of a 20-year Treasury bond, investors would flock to the mid-term notes, eventually driving up the price and driving down the rate. Since the long-term bond has a rate that is not as competitive as the intermediate-term bond, investors will shy away from a long-term investment. This will eventually lead to a decrease in the value of the 20-year bond and an increase in its yield.


   Types of Humps  

The humped yield curve does not happen very often, but it is an indication that some period of uncertainty or volatility may be expected in the economy. When the curve is bell-shaped, it reflects investor uncertainty about specific economic policies or conditions, or it may reflect a transition of the yield curve from a normal to inverted curve or from an inverted to normal curve. Although a humped yield curve is often an indicator of slowing economic growth, it should not be confused with an inverted yield curve. An inverted yield curve occurs when short-term rates are higher than long-term rates or, to put it another way, when long-term rates fall below short-term rates. An inverted yield curve indicates that investors expect the economy to slow or decline in the future, and this slower growth may lead to lower inflation and lower interest rates for all maturities.



When short-term and long-term interest rates decrease by a greater degree than intermediate-term rates, a humped yield curve known as a negative butterfly results. The connotation of a butterfly is given because the intermediate maturity sector is likened to the body of the butterfly and the short maturity and long maturity sectors are viewed as the wings of the butterfly.
What Is a Hundredweight (CWT)?  

A hundredweight (CWT) is a unit of measurement used to define the quantities of certain commodities being bought and sold. It is used in some commodities trading contracts. Pricing by hundredweight also is a standard option for shipping packages that take up less than an entire truckload. Usage of hundredweight more generally has declined in favor of contract specifications in pounds or kilograms.



The value of a hundredweight differs in its American and British usages. In the United States, a hundredweight is a unit of mass equal to 100 pounds. In the United Kingdom, a hundredweight is a unit of mass equal to 112 pounds. The two values are sometimes distinguished by referring to the American hundredweight as a "short hundredweight" and the British hundredweight as a "long hundredweight." The short hundredweight is also sometimes called a "cental."





Key Takeaways

A hundredweight (abbreviated as CWT) is a standard unit of weight or mass used in certain commodities markets. It also may be used to price smaller shipments of goods.In North America, a hundredweight is equal to 100 pounds; in the United Kingdom, a hundredweight is 112 pounds. These may be referred to as a "short" or a "long" hundredweight.The hundredweight was originally introduced as a standard unit of measurement to simplify the trading of certain goods between countries.The use of the hundredweight as a measurement has declined in recent years in favor of the metric system.Steel, cattle, oil, seeds, and grains are examples of products measured using the hundredweight.


   Understanding Hundredweight (CWT)  

The abbreviation "CWT" refers to centum or cental weight, meaning hundredweight. The hundredweight has been used as a measurement of mass in Europe since the late Medieval era. Traders bought and sold goods like wax, sugar, and pepper in hundredweights, although the precise amount that was meant at the time could be 100 pounds or 108 pounds. Since 1340, when King Edward III changed the official definition of one stone to 14 pounds, one hundredweight has equaled eight stones or 112 pounds.



This was set in law in 1835 when the Weights and Measures Act established one hundredweight as 112 pounds, In the U.S. and Canada, one hundredweight, then and now, is 100 pounds.





100 lbs (45.4 kg) / 112 lbs. (50.8 kg)

In the United States and Canada, 1 hundredweight count (CWT) is equal to 100 lbs., or 45.4 kilograms.In the Great Britain, 1 hundredweight count (CWT) is equal to 112 lbs., or 50.8 kilograms.


  When a Hundredweight Is Not 100 Pounds  

In 1824, it became illegal for British merchants to use the term hundredweight to refer to a unit of 100 pounds, and merchants could be sued for fraudulent activity for doing so. In 1879, it became legal again to use of measurement of 100 pounds in Britain, but only when it was labeled a "cental."



The term hundredweight is derived from the French avoirdupois weight system which was established in England in the late Medieval period. It provided a standard for measurement, simplifying the trading of certain goods among countries.



This was especially helpful when dealing with commodities that were traded in large quantities. It was accepted that 20 hundredweights were one ton. A short ton weighed 2,000 pounds and a long ton weighed 2,240 pounds.






The abbreviation "CWT" stands for centum or cental weight, meaning one hundredweight.


   Examples of Hundredweight (CWT)  

The hundredweight is most often used as a unit of measure for trading large quantities of commodities. It also is used when referring to products that are exceptionally heavy, such as steel.



Many food items such as cattle, oil, seeds, and grains are measured using the hundredweight, along with products sold in bulk including paper and some chemicals or additives.


  Cattle by Hundredweight  

In the futures markets, prices for cattle and other livestock are quoted in hundredweights, while prices for foods like coffee and sugar are priced by cents per pound.



Prices of futures including livestock and rice may be measured and traded in hundredweights.



Anvils were commonly measured in hundredweights, using a decimal designation to state the number of hundredweights, quarter-hundredweights, and pounds the anvil weighed. The formula can still be used to indicate anvil weight.


   Special Considerations  

With the increased use of the metric system across Europe, the hundredweight generally fell out of favor. As the metric system created a more universally accepted standard, dealing in hundredweights became less common. The potential for confusion between the British and North American definitions helped make it unpopular for international trade.



Even though it is not as commonly used as it once was, it is still an accepted unit of measurement. The hundredweight is used within certain U.S. sectors, especially those relating to agriculture, even though most trade is conducted in pounds or kilograms.


   CWT Shipping vs. LTL Shipping  

Shipping companies that handle smaller loads of goods can often choose between two pricing options for transporting their packages: hundredweight (CWT) or less-than-truckload (LTL) pricing. Generally, a shipping company that specializes in carrying small loads from many clients relies on hundredweight pricing.



UPS and FedEx, for example, both offer hundredweight options for shipping packages.


  Advantages and Disadvantages  

According to Clearview Audit, a firm that specializes in supply chain management services, both options have advantages and disadvantages:



LTL shipping requires that packages be loaded onto a pallet and may include very heavy, large, or oddly shaped goods. This option is often used when all of the goods being shipped are going to the same destination, such as a warehouse.Hundredweight shipping requires less handling, as multiple packages can be sent without loading them onto pallets. It is often used by small shippers sending packages to a number of destinations.



The better shipping choice depends on many factors, including the size, shape, and weight of the products being shipped and the distance being covered.






Shipping by hundredweight is the preferred option for many businesses that frequently ship small packages that add up to less than a full truckload.




How Do You Calculate CWT in Cattle?
In the U.S., cattle and all other commodities are weighed in pounds. A hundredweight equals 100 pounds in North America. So, the total weight of the cattle divided by 100 equals the number of hundredweight of cattle.




How Are Freight Prices Calculated With CWT?
The shipping charge will be quoted as a price per cwt. For example, the quoted price might be $30 per cwt. A 500-pound shipment is five hundredweight. The total price is 30 x 5, or $150.




How Many Kilograms Are There in a Hundredweight (CWT)?
One pound equals 0.453592 kilograms. A hundredweight in the U.S. measurement of 100 pounds would equal 45.3592 kilograms. A hundredweight in the British measurement of 112 pounds is 50.8023 kilograms.




How Do You Calculate Hundredweight (CWT)?
In North America, you simply divide the weight in pounds by one hundred. So something that is one ton (2,000 lbs) would be 20 CWT.


   The Bottom Line  

The hundredweight survives as a standard unit of measurement in the 21st century but only in a number of specific uses. It is used to indicate the quantity of some commodities being bought and sold in the marketplace, and of some commodity futures being traded in the financial markets. It also is used to indicate the quantity of goods being shipped by freight.



One problem with using the hundredweight for global trade is that it has two standard definitions: It's 100 pounds in the U.S. and Canada and 112 pounds in the U.K.
What Are Hung Convertibles?  

Hung convertibles are convertible securities where the share price of the underlying security is well below the conversion price, making it unlikely that the securities will be converted into common stock. Since unconverted securities must be repaid at face value, most issuers wish to prevent their convertibles from being hung.





Key Takeaways

Convertible securities are securities that can be repaid in money or the stock of the issuing company, with certain conditions. Hung convertibles are convertible securities where the share price of the underlying security is well below the conversion price, making it unlikely that the securities will be converted into common stock.Due to their limited prospects for conversion, hung convertibles, also known as busted convertibles, trade more like debt instruments.Most companies prefer not to have hung convertibles, since these obligations must be repaid in money. To solve the issue of a hung convertible, a company would need to improve its fundamentals to spur the common stock high enough to reach the conversion price.


   Understanding Hung Convertibles  

Convertible securities are a type of bond, note, or preferred stock that can be converted into the common shares of the issuing company at a fixed price and date in the future. Many companies with low credit choose to issue convertible securities as an inexpensive way to raise money.



When convertible securities are unlikely to be converted to stock, they are referred to as hung convertibles. This is most common when the cost of conversion is greater than the price of the underlying stock.



Due to their limited prospects for conversion, hung convertibles, also known as busted convertibles, trade more like debt instruments than quasi-equity securities. Hung convertibles can also refer to two other instances where the likelihood of conversion is low:



If the issuer is unable to force conversion until the underlying common stock reaches a pre-defined price level.Because the call date is still far away.






Hung convertibles tend to trade like other debt instruments, due to the low probability of conversion. When the price of the underlying security is high enough to justify conversion, they tend to behave more like equities.


   Example of a Hung Convertible  

Hung convertibles can take the form of bonds, which are backed by collateral, or debentures, which are dependent on the promise of the issuer to pay its obligations. For example, consider a convertible debenture with a face value of $1,000 that can be converted into 100 shares, for a conversion price of $10. If the price of the underlying stock is $4, this debenture would be considered a hung convertible, especially if it matures in a relatively short period.



Such a debenture would therefore be priced as a debt instrument, with its pricing determined by several factors including its coupon rate, maturity, current market interest rates and yields, and the issuer's credit rating.



To solve the problem of a hung convertible, a company, therefore, would need to improve its fundamentals, such as revenue growth, operating margins, or return on invested capital, to spur the common stock high enough to reach the conversion price. 






Convertible securities share many of the advantages of both bonds and stocks. However, they typically pay lower coupon rates than regular bonds.


   Benefits and Limitations of Hung Convertibles  

Some investors view hung convertible securities as the best of both worlds. They have the income-producing and stable price qualities of a bond plus the conversion feature that can provide the potential to gain shares of common stock, which have historically provided greater capital appreciation and been less sensitive to interest rates than bonds.



In other words, an investor gets paid to wait by earning coupon payments up until maturity or conversion into common equity. For an equity investor, convertibles can offer a degree of participation in up markets and more downside protection in turbulent markets than owning the common stock outright.



Hung convertibles come with drawbacks as well. Due to the conversion feature, convertibles pay lower coupon rates than bonds of the same maturity and credit quality. Convertibles investment manager Calamos Investments pegs this difference at 300 to 400 basis points, quite a spread in today’s low-interest-rate environment. And if the stock of the issuer performs poorly, the investor will be left with a lower-paying bond.


   Special Considerations  

Valuing convertibles is a complex exercise since factors that impact bonds, such as interest rates, and factors that impact stocks, such as earnings growth, must be analyzed in tandem. When a convertible bond is trading close to its investment value, or the value of an equivalent non-convertible bond, its price behavior will be more influenced by interest rates than one trading closer to its conversion value. In general, however, a change in the fundamentals of the issuing company will have the greatest impact on a convertible’s price.
What Is a Hurdle Rate?  

A hurdle rate is the minimum rate of return a project or investment must achieve before the manager or investor approves a predetermined condition. It allows companies to make important decisions on whether or not to pursue a specific project. The hurdle rate describes the appropriate compensation for the level of risk present—riskier projects generally have higher hurdle rates than those with less risk.



The term is often used in private equity investing and hedge fund management. For example, in a private equity investment fund, the General Partner is only allowed to charge their performance fees (known as carried interest) if the Limited Partner's rate of return is at or above the hurdle rate, which is a predetermined minimum acceptable rate.





Key Takeaways

A hurdle rate is the minimum rate of return required on a project or investment.Hurdle rates give companies insight into whether they should pursue a specific project.Riskier projects generally have a higher hurdle rate, while those with lower rates come with lower risk.Investors use a hurdle rate in a discounted cash flow analysis to arrive at the net present value of an investment to deem its worth.Companies sometimes use their weighted average cost of capital (WACC) as the hurdle rate.












Investopedia / Sydney Burns


   Formula and Calculating Hurdle Rates  

The most common formula used to calculate a hurdle rate is:



Hurdle Rate = Weighted Average Cost of Capital + Risk Premium



A simplified WACC calculation makes it quicker and easier. You only need to use the following to calculate your WACC:



Value of common stock outstandingValue of preferred stock outstandingValue of total debtInterest rates on eachThe current yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury



So, assume you have the information in the following table:












Outstanding Amount
Interest Rate
Cost




Common stock
$11,500,000
11%
$1,265,000


Preferred stock
$1,500,000
7%
$1,050,000


Debt
$6,250,000
5%
$312,500


Totals
$19,250,000
13.6%
$2,627,500






Multiply each amount by its interest rate to get its cost. Then, total up the outstanding amounts and the costs. Divide the total cost by the total outstanding amount to get your total interest rate (WACC).



Then, subtract your risk premium from your total interest rate (WACC) to get your hurdle rate. In this example, assume the 10-year Treasury had a yield of 4.5% (you can use this as your risk premium). Add 4.5% from 13.6% to get a hurdle rate of 18.1%.


   What Does the Hurdle Rate Tell You?  

Hurdle rates are very important in the business world, especially when it comes to future endeavors and projects. Companies determine whether they will take on a capital project based on its risk level.



If an expected rate of return is above the hurdle rate, the investment is considered sound. If the rate of return falls below the hurdle rate, management may choose not to move forward. A hurdle rate is also referred to as a break-even yield.






Similar to other investment decision-making tools, hurdle rate is only an estimate. There is no guarantee that returns will equal or be higher than the result of the calculation.


   How to Use Hurdle Rate  

Investors and businesses use hurdle rates to evaluate an investment or project's potential.


  Investing  

Often, a risk premium is assigned to a potential investment to denote the anticipated amount of risk involved. The higher the risk, the higher the risk premium should be, as it takes into consideration the fact that if the risk of losing your money is higher, so should the return on your investment be higher. A risk premium is typically added to the WACC for a more appropriate hurdle rate.



Using a hurdle rate to determine an investment's potential helps eliminate any bias created by preference toward a project. By assigning an appropriate risk factor, an investor can use the hurdle rate to demonstrate whether the project has financial merit regardless of any assigned intrinsic value.


  Business Projects  

There are two ways the viability of a project can be evaluated. First, a company decides based on the net present value (NPV) approach by performing a discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis.



Cash flows are discounted by a set rate, which the company chooses as the minimum rate of return needed for an investment or project: the hurdle rate. The value of the discounted cash flows depends on the rate used in discounting them. The project's overall cost is then subtracted from the sum of the discounted cash flows using the hurdle rate to arrive at the project's net present value. If the NPV is positive, the company will approve the project. Sometimes, companies use their weighted average cost of capital (WACC) as the hurdle rate rather than the formula discussed above. Some even use the average return of a stock index as a hurdle rate to try and beat that index.



In the second method, the internal rate of return (IRR) on the project is calculated and compared to the hurdle rate. The project would most likely proceed if the IRR exceeds the hurdle rate.


   Limitations of the Hurdle Rate  

Hurdle rates typically favor projects or investments with high rates of return on a percentage basis, even if the dollar value is smaller. For example, project A has a return of 20% and a dollar profit value of $10. Project B has a return of 10% and a dollar profit value of $20. Project A would most likely be chosen because it has a higher rate of return, even though it returns less in terms of overall dollar value.



In addition, choosing a risk premium is a difficult task, as it is not a guaranteed number. A project or investment may return more or less than expected. If the rate is chosen incorrectly, it can result in a decision that is not an efficient use of funds or results in missed opportunities.




Why Is Hurdle Rate Important?
A hurdle rate, also called a break-even yield, is very important in the business world, especially in future endeavors and projects. Companies determine whether they will take on capital projects based on the level of risk associated with them. If an expected rate of return is above the hurdle rate, the investment is considered sound. If the rate of return falls below the hurdle rate, the investor may choose not to move forward.




What Are the Disadvantages of Hurdle Rate?
Hurdle rates typically favor projects or investments with high rates of return on a percentage basis, even if the dollar value is smaller. Additionally, choosing a risk premium is a difficult task, as it is not a guaranteed number. A project or investment may return more or less than expected. If a hurdle rate is chosen incorrectly, it can result in a decision that is not an efficient use of funds or results in missed opportunities.




How Is a Hurdle Rate Determined?
Companies can choose an arbitrary hurdle rate to discount the cash flows to arrive at the project's net present value (NPV). If the NPV is positive, the company will approve the project. However, many companies add a risk premium to their weighted average cost of capital (WACC), which is the overall required return, and set that as the hurdle rate.


   The Bottom Line  

A hurdle rate is the minimum rate of return required for a company or investor to move forward on a project. Most companies factor in a risk premium when determining their hurdle rate, assigning a higher rate to riskier projects and a lower rate to projects with more moderate risks. Methods to evaluate a project's viability include determining the net present value (NPV) through a discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis and calculating the internal rate of return (IRR). Also known as break-even yield, the hurdle rate can be a key factor in guiding investment decisions.
What Is Hurricane Insurance?  

Actually, hurricane insurance doesn't exist as a specific, separate type of policy. The term usually refers to what is, strictly speaking, a hurricane deductible on a homeowners insurance policy: an extra amount a homeowner must pay before the insurer will cover the damage or destruction caused by a hurricane. A percentage of the property's worth, this deductible is common in 19 hurricane-prone states and the District of Columbia.



Hurricane insurance can also refer to special types of catastrophe insurance that specifically cover flooding or extreme winds (which actually do the damage to the property). These policies are also typical—and sometimes required—in high-risk hurricane states, such as Florida and Texas.





Key Takeaways

There is no such thing as hurricane insurance, strictly speaking.Coverage for the damage-inducing waters or winds that hurricanes cause is provided by flood insurance or windstorm insurance.Many homeowners insurance policies in coastal states impose a hurricane deductible, an extra out-of-pocket amount the policyholder incurs before coverage kicks in.


   Understanding Hurricane Insurance  

Hurricane deductibles are separate from regular homeowners insurance deductibles and are based on a percentage of the home’s value. While a regular homeowners insurance policy deductible is a fixed dollar amount—say, $500 or $2,000—a hurricane deductible might be 2% to 5% of a home’s insured value, or $2,000 to $5,000 for every $100,000 in home coverage.



Hurricane deductibles first developed in 1992 after Hurricane Andrew’s massive damage to South Florida inflicted major losses on homeowners insurance companies, but they became more widespread in 2005, in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. Insurance companies turn to reinsurers when they’re having trouble paying large amounts of claims all at once, but even reinsurance companies were struggling under such enormous losses. As a result, insurance companies began requiring hurricane deductibles in 19 states and Washington, D.C. Homes in these states, which are all on the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Coasts, are susceptible to hurricane damage.



For a homeowner to be required to pay a hurricane deductible, there usually must be a named hurricane in the area. Sometimes a severe tropical storm will trigger the deductible. The hurricane deductible will be in effect for any damage that occurs until the storm is downgraded. Rules vary by state.



Even when a hurricane deductible doesn't apply, a windstorm deductible might. A windstorm deductible applies to damage from any kind of high wind. It can run a little lower than a hurricane deductible, sometimes as low as 1% of the property's insured worth.


   States Where Hurricane Deductibles Apply  

The states/regions where hurricane deductibles apply are:



AlabamaConnecticutDelawareFloridaGeorgiaHawaiiLouisianaMaineMarylandMassachusettsMississippiNew JerseyNew YorkNorth CarolinaPennsylvaniaRhode IslandSouth CarolinaTexasVirginiaWashington D.C.﻿﻿


   Policies Offering Hurricane Coverage  

Homeowners should also be aware that even if they pay a hurricane deductible, gaps in their coverage might exist. Most homeowners policies exempt flooding from an outside natural event, like a hurricane. So, property-owners need a separate flood insurance policy to cover such water-related destruction or damage.






Most standard homeowners policies will cover some damage caused by hurricanes—mostly that related to the heavy wind that, say, rips shingles off a roof or causes a tree branch to snap and crash into a window.



Also, homeowners insurance policies in some hurricane-prone states won’t pay for wind-related damage. So, if you want to protect your property, you must purchase separate windstorm insurance. In this case, all wind damage or destruction would fall under this policy instead of the traditional homeowners policy. On top of hurricane coverage, windstorm insurance applies to problems stemming from tornadoes, cyclones, and other types of high-speed winds.


   How Hurricane Deductibles Are Calculated  

To some degree, depending on the state, insurance companies dictate the level of the hurricane deductible and where it should apply. However, insurers' hurricane deductible plans are subject to state insurance departments and may be subject to various regulations and laws. Rhode Island, for example, sets a cap of 5% on hurricane and windstorm deductibles.



In Florida, located in a particularly hurricane-prone region, state law sets some requirements. Homeowners have to have the option of a $500 flat-rate hurricane deductible. Premiums may, of course, be higher than if you choose one of the other mandated options: 2%, 5%, or 10% of the insured value of the residence.



In some states, homeowners may pay lower insurance premiums if they make improvements to their home to minimize damage from a hurricane, such as installing storm shutters or hurricane-resistant laminated glass windows and doors.




Are Wind and Hurricane Insurance the Same?
A windstorm insurance policy may be different than a hurricane insurance policy. With a windstorm insurance, coverage is for damage caused by wind only. While there is no specific "hurricane insurance," this insurance may refer a a combination of a windstorm policy, flood insurance, and homeowners insurance.




Is Hurricane Insurance the Same as Flood Insurance?
Hurricane insurance and flood insurance may sometimes be considered the same. Flood insurance covers damage from flooding, which may include flooding as a result of hurricanes but could also cover damage from other causes, like a leaked pipe. Hurricane insurance is typically a combination of flood and windstorm insurance, which covers damages caused by wind, such as from hurricanes.




Are Hurricanes Usually Part of Homeowners Insurance?
You may have to get separate flood insurance and windstorm insurance to cover hurricane damage. These policies may not be part of homeowners insurance, however some policies may include windstorm insurance. Most standard homeowners insurance won't cover flood damage.


   The Bottom Line  

Hurricane insurance can be a valuable tool to protect your from financial hardship in the event your home suffers from damage from a hurricane. Whether hurricane insurance is right for you will depend on a number of factors, including the risk that a hurricane will damage your home and your own financial situation. Consider consulting a financial advisor for guidance with your specific needs.
What Is a Hybrid Annuity?  

A hybrid annuity is a retirement income investment that allows investors to split their funds between fixed-rate and variable-rate components. Investors can divide their savings between conservative assets that offer a low but guaranteed rate of return and riskier assets that offer the potential for higher returns. As in any annuity, the goal is to create a steady stream of income during retirement.





Key Takeaways

A hybrid annuity is a retirement income investment that allows investors to divide their savings between fixed- and variable-rate products. They are meant to offer both growth and income, creating a portfolio of both conservative and riskier assets, however, most annuities already offer those perks. Like other annuities, the goal is to create a steady stream of income during retirement and can begin paying out immediately or be deferred with fixed or flexible premiums.A hybrid annuity consists of a variable component that allows for investment capital to be allocated to a mutual fund sub-account for growth and a fixed component that guarantees a set amount of payments after retirement.Critics of hybrid annuities argue that they are over-complicated, expensive, and over-designed and that most annuities provide some sort of growth and income components.


   How a Hybrid Annuity Works  

A hybrid annuity is a combination of two or more annuities: a fixed annuity contract and a variable annuity contract that are both placed in the same annuity product. Its design allows a portion of an investor’s money to be placed in a mutual fund sub-account, which is the variable component. The remainder is kept separate in order to guarantee payment of a set amount after retirement, which is the fixed component.



A hybrid annuity gives investors more options for investing than a standard annuity, such as pairing a fixed annuity with an indexed product in an effort to better protect the principal in both segments. Effectively, they allow the backing of a fixed-rate annuity and a variable-rate annuity in a single product. 



Hybrid annuities can be used by anyone but they are best suited for those saving for retirement that are seeking both growth and stability (via income payments) or as a hedge against inflation.


   Special Considerations  

Hybrid annuities might not be a one-size-fits-all investment, which is what they are sometimes marketed as. They can be useful for those who have longer time horizons, but who aren’t well into retirement. Younger investors could also opt to merely invest in equities and likely generate a better return over the long term.



Most professionals agree that younger investors should opt for the latter strategy rather than investing in annuities. In general, annuities are appropriate for investors seeking stable, guaranteed retirement income. Annuity holders cannot outlive the income stream, which removes longevity risk.



Notably, the lump sum deposited into the annuity is not liquid. It is subject to withdrawal penalties. Annuities are not recommended for investors who may need access to their cash. Some investors also may look to cash out an annuity at a profit, although that is contrary to the investment strategy behind these products. As with any investment, an investor’s risk tolerance should be considered before making an annuity purchase as well as an assessment of their liquid cash needs.


   Advantages and Disadvantage of Hybrid Annuities  

As with any annuity, hybrids can begin paying out immediately or be deferred with fixed or flexible premiums. Among other positives, hybrid annuities offer the possibility of increasing the investor's income and hedging the assets against inflation. The mix of fixed and variable components lowers the downside risk.



As for negatives, the dual framework adds complexity to these products, which is a deterrent for many investors. Hybrid products also may have higher fees, including high charges on the back-end when the holder goes to surrender or cash in the annuity. These fees are also not prominently displayed, i.e., sometimes hidden.



The key argument against hybrids is that they are over-complicated, expensive, and over-designed. In fact, most annuities provide some sort of growth and income components. That is, nearly all variable and indexed annuity products today come with guaranteed income riders. That somewhat negates a major selling point of hybrids.
What Is a Hybrid ARM?  

A hybrid adjustable-rate mortgage, or hybrid ARM (also known as a "fixed-period ARM"), blends characteristics of a fixed-rate mortgage with an adjustable-rate mortgage. This type of mortgage will have an initial fixed interest rate period followed by an adjustable rate period. After the fixed interest rate expires, the interest rate starts to adjust based on an index plus a margin. The date at which the mortgage changes from the fixed rate to the adjustable rate is referred to as the reset date.



The most common configuration of hybrid ARM is the 5/1, which has an initial fixed term of 5 years followed by adjustable rates that reset every 12 months.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Hybrid adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) offer an introductory fixed rate for a set number of years, after which the interest rate adjusts annually.When hybrid ARMs become variable they will adjust on a regular basis, typically each year.Homeowners generally enjoy lower mortgage payments during the introductory period, but may lose out if interest rates are higher when the fixed period expires.The most popular type of hybrid ARM is the 5/1, which has a fixed initial 5-year term followed by annual adjustments with a variable rate.﻿﻿


   Understanding Hybrid ARMs  

A borrower should carefully consider his or her time horizon when choosing a hybrid arm and recognize the risks associated with the reset date, or the expiration of the fixed interest rate period. If there has been a large change in interest rates, this reset could create substantially large payments; however, typically, the amount by which the interest rate can adjust is subject to an interest rate cap.



The 5/1 hybrid ARM may be the most popular type of adjustable-rate mortgage, but it's not the only option. There are 3/1, 7/1, and 10/1 ARMs, as well. These loans offer an introductory fixed rate for three, seven, or 10 years respectively, after which they adjust annually.﻿﻿



Other ARM structures exist, such as the 5/5 and 5/6 ARMs, which also feature a five-year introductory period followed by a rate adjustment every five years or every six months, respectively. Notably, 15/15 ARMs adjust once after 15 years. Less common are 2/28 and 3/27 ARMs.﻿﻿ With the former, the fixed interest rate applies for only the first two years, followed by 28 years of adjustable rates; with the latter, the fixed rate is for three years, with adjustments in each of the following 27 years. Some of these loans adjust every six months rather than annually.


   How Hybrid ARMs Are Structured  

Hybrid adjustable-rate mortgages may be set with fixed-rate intervals of three, five, seven, or 10 years with the adjustable rate triggered on the reset date. After the reset date has been reached, the interest rate on the mortgage is typically assessed and recalculated on an annual basis.



The long-term, fixed-rate mortgages, especially those with a 30 year period, can see low interest rates that are competitive, hybrid ARMs offer homebuyers options that may be more suitable for their needs. For instance, many homeowners do not remain in their residences for 30 years, making it more attractive to pursue a mortgage that offers interest rates that better suit the time frame they expect to hold the property.



With a hybrid ARM, and index is established to serve as the benchmark interest that the margin is added to as way to figure out the new rate that will be enacted after the reset date is reached. The index can be based on a variety of benchmarks, such as the London Interbank Offered Rate.



For the adjustable-rate period of the mortgage, a floor will be set to determine the absolute lowest rate the loan’s interest rate can be adjusted to. For instance, the lender might stipulate that the interest rate cannot fall below its stated margin.



The calculation of the new adjustable-rate can include a lookback period where the lender, at the reset date, refers to the index within the lookback period. The length of this period can vary by lender and could be set around 45 days.﻿
What Is a Hybrid Fund?  

A hybrid fund is an investment fund that is characterized by diversification among two or more asset classes. These funds typically invest in a mix of stocks and bonds. They may also be known as asset allocation funds.





Key Takeaways

A hybrid fund is a classification of a mutual fund or ETF that invests in different types of assets or asset classes to produce a diversified portfolio.Balanced funds, which hold typically 60% stocks and 40% bonds are a common example of a hybrid fund.Blended funds, which mix growth and value stocks, are another hybrid fund example.


   Understanding Hybrid Funds  

Hybrid funds offer investors a diversified portfolio. The term hybrid indicates that the fund strategy includes investment in multiple asset classes. In general, it can also mean that the fund uses an alternative mixed management approach.



Hybrid funds are commonly known as asset allocation funds. In the investment market, asset allocation funds can be used for many purposes. These funds offer investors an option for investing in multiple asset classes through a single fund.



Hybrid funds evolved from the implementation of modern portfolio theory in fund management. These funds can offer varying levels of risk tolerance ranging from conservative to moderate and aggressive.



Balanced funds are also a type of hybrid fund. Balanced funds often follow a standard asset allocation proportion, such as 60/40.
Target date funds or lifecycle funds also fit into the hybrid category. These funds invest in multiple asset classes for diversification. Target date funds vary from standard hybrid funds in that their portfolio portions begin with a more aggressive allocation and progressively rebalance to a more conservative allocation for use by a specified utilization date.
A blend fund (or blended fund) is a type of equity mutual fund that includes a mix of both value and growth stocks. These funds offer investors diversification among these popular investment styles in a single portfolio.



In all cases, hybrid funds will include some mix of two or more asset classes. In risk-targeted and balanced funds, allocations will typically remain at a fixed proportion. In funds targeting a specified utilization date, the proportion of asset mix will vary over time. In all of the funds, the investment manager may actively manage the individual holdings within each asset category to respond to changing market conditions and potential capital appreciation opportunities


   Examples of Hybrid Funds  

Investment managers offer a wide range of options for hybrid funds. Below are two examples.


  Vanguard Balanced Index Fund (VBIAX)  

This fund has a 60/40 balance among stocks and bonds. The stock portion of the portfolio seeks to replicate the CRSP U.S. Total Market Index. The bond portion of the portfolio seeks to replicate the Bloomberg U.S. Aggregate Float Adjusted Index. The fund has an expense ratio of 0.06% as of Q2 2021.


  T. Rowe Price Retirement 2060 Fund (TRRLX)  

The T. Rowe Price Retirement 2060 Fund is a hybrid target-date fund. As of May 2021, it had more than 90% of the portfolio in stocks and approximately 8% in bonds and other fixed-income securities. The fund uses a fund of funds approach with 19% of the portfolio in a growth stock fund. The fund has an expense ratio of 0.71% as of Q2 2021.﻿﻿
What Is a Hybrid Security?  

A hybrid security is a single financial security that combines two or more different financial instruments. Hybrid securities, often referred to as "hybrids," generally combine both debt and equity characteristics. The most common type of hybrid security is a convertible bond that has features of an ordinary bond but is heavily influenced by the price movements of the stock into which it is convertible.


   Understanding Hybrid Securities  

Hybrid securities are bought and sold on an exchange or through a brokerage. Hybrids may give investors a fixed or floating rate of return and may pay returns as interest or as dividends. Some hybrids return their face value to the holder when they mature and some have tax advantages. Hybrid securities can be viewed as a form of esoteric debt and may be difficult to sell due to their complexity.


   Types of Hybrid Securities   

In addition to convertible bonds, another popular type of hybrid security is convertible preference shares, which pay dividends at a fixed or floating rate before common stock dividends are paid, and can be exchanged for shares of the underlying company's stock.



Pay-in-kind toggle notes are another type of hybrid security where the issuing company can toggle the payment from interest rates to the additional debt owing to the investor, meaning the company owes the investor more debt but doesn't actually pay interest on it immediately. This interest deferral allows the company to keep cash flowing, but the larger principal payment may never come if the cash flow situation isn't resolved.



Each type of hybrid security has a unique risk and reward characteristics. Convertible bonds offer greater potential for appreciation than regular bonds, but pay less interest than conventional bonds, while still facing the risk that the underlying company could perform poorly. They can also fail to make coupon payments and not be able to repay the bond's face value at maturity. Convertible securities offer greater income potential than regular securities but can still lose value if the underlying company underperforms. Other risks of hybrid securities include deferred interest payments, insolvency, market price volatility, early repayment, and illiquidity.


   Special Considerations  

Other new types of hybrid securities are being introduced all the time in an attempt to meet the needs of sophisticated investors. Some of these securities are so complicated that it is difficult to define them as either debt or equity.



In addition to being difficult to understand, another criticism of some hybrid securities is that they require the investor to take more risk than the potential return warrants. Hybrid securities are not marketed toward retail investors, but even institutional investors sometimes fail to fully understand the terms of the deal they are entering when buying a hybrid security.
What Is Hydraulic Fracturing?  

Hydraulic fracturing, commonly known as "fracking", is a process that injects high-pressure liquid into an oil- or gas-bearing rock formation to create fractures. This pressure typically yields improved flows, making it useful for oil and gas firms seeking more economical production in areas that would otherwise produce low-flow wells.





Key Takeaways

Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is a way to extract oil and gas reserves trapped deep underground in sedimentary rock formations.Fracking utilizes highly pressurized liquids that are forced into the rock formations, causing cracks and fissures to appear.The oil released from these cracks and fissures is then brought to the surface for refining.Fracking remains a controversial method of oil extraction due to environmental concerns and the potential for water table contamination or induced earthquakes.


   Understanding Hydraulic Fracturing  

Hydraulic fracturing involves pumping fuel into a wellbore to create enough pressure to develop and expand cracks in hard rock formations. The fluid injected into the well contains a combination of water, chemicals, and small particles of sand or ceramic materials.



The water and chemicals crack and open the rock through high pressure, while the solid particles, called proppant, stay in place and keep the fractures open to stimulate a better flow of liquids or gases out of the well.















fracking.
University of Michigan Energy Institute


   History and Use of Hydraulic Fracturing  

Hydraulic fracturing was first used in Kansas in 1947 in an attempt to extract natural gas from a limestone formation in the Hugoton gas field. Since that time, petroleum engineers have regularly used hydraulic fracturing as a means of increasing well production. While fractures sometimes exist naturally in formations, both natural and human-made fractures can widen by this process.



Hydraulic fracturing is one of several technologies that make unconventional oil and gas plays economically more viable. Tight oil and gas reservoirs, including those embedded within shale formations such as the Bakken, Eagle Ford, Niobrara, and Pierre formations in North America, typically require a combination of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing to produce efficiently.


   Environmental and Political Hydraulic Fracturing Controversy  

Environmental concerns linked to hydraulic fracturing include air pollution from methane emissions, groundwater contamination, and the potential risk of induced earthquakes. The disposal of wastewater from the drilling process plays a primary role in many disagreements about how to weigh the technology’s risks against its benefits.



After drilling companies inject fluids into the well, the back-pressure from the rock formation generally pushes the mix of water and chemicals back to the surface through the wellbore. At that point, the fluids can be recycled or collected for eventual disposal. Drilling companies take precautions to ensure their wells do not leak either fracturing fluids or petroleum liquids into local water tables.



However, environmental groups have voiced concerns about contamination from inadequate holding tanks and spills. Some operations dispose of wastewater in deep wells, which has recently been correlated with an increased risk of earthquakes in Oklahoma. Another problem linked to hydraulic fracturing is the leakage of methane gas from the fracking process. 



These concerns have made the hydraulic fracturing process subject to strict regulation in some areas, including outright bans in France and the states of Vermont and New York.
What Is a Hydrocarbon?  

The term hydrocarbon refers to an organic chemical compound that is composed exclusively of hydrogen and carbon atoms. Hydrocarbons are naturally-occurring and form the basis of crude oil, natural gas, coal, and other important energy sources. They are highly combustible and produce carbon dioxide, water, and heat when they are burned. As such, hydrocarbons are highly effective as a source of fuel.





Key Takeaways

Hydrocarbons are chemical compounds that are utilized as the basis of the vast majority of global energy production.A variety of complex technologies and techniques have been developed for extracting hydrocarbons from deep within the earth.Some of the world's largest companies are hydrocarbon companies, primarily oil and gas companies.The use of hydrocarbons as an energy source has negatively impacted the world's climate in a significant way, resulting in climate change.Because of the serious environmental cost of using hydrocarbons as a primary source of energy, attempts to move away from them towards alternative energy sources, such as solar, nuclear, wind, and geothermal power have increased significantly.


   Understanding Hydrocarbons  

Hydrocarbons occur naturally. They originate from plant and animal fossils that were formed by the forces of temperature and weight over millennia. They are mostly found deep underground, in porous rock formations, such as sandstone, limestone, and shale.



Porous rock formations are often found in large bodies of water, so there is an immense quantity of hydrocarbons trapped deep beneath the oceans. Oil and natural gas exploration companies use advanced engineering techniques to identify these potential reservoirs and pull their resources to the surface for human use. Examples of such technologies include offshore oil platforms, directional drilling, and enhanced oil recovery (EOR) techniques.



Hydrocarbons are very important for the modern economy. They are responsible for more than 80% of global energy consumption. This figure may actually understate the role of hydrocarbons in the economy by a significant margin because they are used in a wide range of applications aside from their use as a source of energy. For example, refined petroleum has been used to produce many derivative materials that play critical roles in the global economy, such as plastics, solvents, and lubricants.



Different techniques are used to extract hydrocarbons, depending on the type and location of the reserve. For example, hydraulic fracturing (better known as fracking) is used to extract natural gas from shale rock by using pressurized fracking fluid to create fissures through which the gas can escape to the surface. Mining is used to access oil sands, which are unconventional deposits of crude oil that are heavily intermixed with sand and sandstone.


   Hydrocarbon Companies  

Because hydrocarbons are the largest energy source in the globe, some of the largest companies in the world are hydrocarbon companies. These primarily include oil and gas companies that mine hydrocarbons and convert them into the energy sources that the world uses to power almost everything.



Out of the top 10 companies in the world, six of them are state-owned. Saudi Aramco is the world's largest oil and gas company while Exxon Mobil (XOM), which is based in the United States, is the world's largest public company. Other names in this space include:



Chevron (CVX)
Royal Dutch Shell (SHEL)
PetroChina (PTR)
National Iranian Oil Company
Gazprom (GZPM)
British Petroleum (BP)



The success of these companies and their ability to provide energy sources efficiently and cheaply greatly impact the world's financial markets and economies.



The fluctuations in the price of oil have a great impact on the cost of gasoline for cars, jet fuel for airlines, and gas for heating homes. These costs affect how consumers spend their money; decisions that reverberate throughout the global economy.


   Impact of Hydrocarbons  
  Environmental  

There is a serious environmental cost to using hydrocarbons as a primary source of energy. Fossil fuel sources like crude oil, natural gas, and coal contain hydrogen and carbon. When they're burned, they release greenhouse gasses into the air, mainly carbon dioxide. Releasing them into the air contributes to climate change.



But it isn't just consumption that contributes to the deterioration of the environment. The process of oil and gas extraction also does considerable damage to the surface environment and surrounding groundwater of the extraction site by releasing pollutants. There is also a major threat of unexpected spills, which also has a negative impact on marine and aquatic life.


  Economic  

Not only does the use of hydrocarbons have an environmental impact but it also has economic implications. Proponents say that this sector is a major economic driver because of how vital it is in terms of the number of jobs it creates. And let's not forget how useful hydrocarbons are to society. After all, consumers need energy sources to fuel their cars, heat their homes, and light up their rooms.



But there's a clear downside. Many economists argue that hydrocarbon energy production involves substantial negative externalities that are not sufficiently represented in the market price of oil and gas. In fact, considering the mounting cost of climate-change-related phenomena, many argue that these externalities significantly outweigh any cost savings associated with hydrocarbons.


   Alternatives to Hydrocarbons  

To address the negative impact of hydrocarbon energy, there is a growing movement toward the use of renewable energy sources, such as solar, wind, and geothermal power. Along with innovations in battery technology and smart grid infrastructure, these new energy alternatives may play a significantly larger role in global energy production in the years and decades ahead.


  Solar  

Solar power comes from the sun. The process transforms solar energy into thermal or electrical energy that is used in powering homes, heating water for commercial and industrial use, and providing electricity. Solar energy is considered to be the most abundant and cleanest energy source in the world.



Solar power has gained prominence in the use of homes and office buildings. It functions via solar panels that are placed on these structures that convert solar energy into electricity and other uses. Solar panel companies are more common and a new part of the energy industry.






The top five solar power-producing countries are China, the United States, Japan, Germany, and India.


  Wind  

Wind energy utilizes the wind to create power or electricity. Wind turbines are created to convert the energy in wind to mechanical power, which is then used for a variety of industrial tasks as well as in creating electricity through the use of a generator. Wind turbines can be found on both land and water.


  Geothermal  

Geothermal energy taps into the heat that exists under the surface of the earth. The sources of heat are trapped inside rocks and liquids under the surface as well as far down towards the earth's core. Geothermal energy is created by digging wells into the earth's surface to access the steam and hot water, which are used to power generators that create electricity.




What Is a Hydrocarbon and Its Uses?
A hydrocarbon is an organic compound consisting of hydrogen and carbon found in crude oil, natural gas, and coal. Hydrocarbons are highly combustible and the main energy source of the world. Its uses consist of gasoline, jet fuel, propane, kerosene, and diesel, to name just a few.




What Are the Types of Hydrocarbons?
There are two types of hydrocarbons: aliphatic and aromatic. The three types of aliphatic hydrocarbons are alkanes, alkenes, and alkynes. Aromatic hydrocarbons include benzene. Overall, examples of hydrocarbons are methane, ethane, propane, and butane.




What Is Hydrocarbon Fuel?
Hydrocarbon fuel is fuel that is derived from a hydrocarbon, which includes gasoline and jet fuel, both of which have significant uses in the modern world, from powering cars to planes to lawnmowers.




How Do You Identify a Hydrocarbon?
Hydrocarbons are identified by studying their molecular structure. Hydrocarbons only consist of carbon and hydrogen, in many different formats, but that is their identifying feature.




Are Hydrocarbons Harmful to Humans?
Yes, hydrocarbons are dangerous to humans. Gases emitted from hydrocarbons have shown to damage respiratory systems and harm the environment through climate change and the greenhouse effect. Oil spills damage ecosystems. While hydrocarbons are natural occurrences, it is their manipulation into energy sources that are harmful to humans.


   The Bottom Line  

Hydrocarbons are naturally occurring chemical compounds that consist of hydrogen and carbon found in crude oil, natural gas, and coal. They have been manipulated by humans to be used as an energy source, such as gasoline and jet fuel. The use of hydrocarbons, particularly their burning, such as in coal, has had a devastating impact on the environment. As a result, many alternative energy sources that are safer and cleaner have been developed, such as solar and wind.
What Is Hyperdeflation?  

Hyperdeflation is an extremely large and relatively quick level of deflation in an economy.





Key Takeaways

Hyperdeflation refers to extremely large decreases in the general prices of goods in an economy—or, correspondingly large increases in a money's purchasing power.Hyperdeflation is very rare, with perhaps the only example being Bitcoin's quick and meteoric rise in price in a short span of time.Hyperinflation is the opposite theoretical concept and is rare, but there have been several cases where the prices of goods have increased rapidly as the value of the currency plummets.


   Understanding Hyperdeflation  

Hyperdeflation occurs when the purchasing power of currency rises drastically in a relatively short period of time. This increase results in debts being more pronounced, as the real value of goods and services increases and the value of the currency falls.



If hyperdeflation were to occur, it would have severe economic consequences as people would forgo making a purchase today when they know it will be much cheaper to buy it tomorrow, or the day after, or the day after—and so spending and investment will grind to a halt.



Hyperdeflation is quite rare and can be contrasted with the still rare but more common periods of hyperinflation, where prices rise rapidly as the purchasing power of currency falls steeply.



Hyperdeflation is more or less a theoretical term, and there is no exact measure of the difference between it and deflation. However, hyperdeflation, like deflation, can lead to a deflationary spiral in which a deflationary environment leads to lower production, lower wages and lower demand, and thus lower price levels. This scenario creates a feedback loop that continues until an outside force (the government, for example) steps in.



The United States has experienced severe periods of deflation following the Civil War and World War I. Some economists believe that the financial crisis of 2007-2009 brought on a period of deflation in the United States. Japan entered a severe period of deflation that has been ongoing since the 1990s.


   Deflationary Spiral  

While hyperdeflation is rare, deflation by itself can lead to pernicious negative feedback loops. A deflationary spiral is a downward price reaction to an economic crisis leading to lower production, lower wages, decreased demand, and still lower prices. These events often occur during a period of severe economic crisis, such as the Great Depression.



Deflation occurs when general price levels decline, as opposed to inflation which is when general price levels rise. When deflation occurs, central banks and monetary authorities can enact expansionary monetary policies to spur demand and economic growth.



If monetary policy efforts fail, however, due to greater-than-anticipated weakness in the economy or because target interest rates are already zero or close to zero, a deflationary spiral may occur even with an expansionary monetary policy in place. Such a spiral amounts to a vicious circle, where a chain of events reinforces an initial problem.


   Example of Hyperdeflation  

Unlike hyperinflation, there are scant few documented real-world examples of hyperdeflation in history. Recently, however, the world has seen the emergence of cryptocurrency: a decentralized digital currency that works through a blockchain, or public transaction ledger.



Bitcoin, created in 2009, was the first digital currency and remains the most well-known. Many observers have labeled its recent volatility as an unprecedented example of hyperdeflation. Some cryptocurrency experts and economists label its rising prices as a bubble, noting that the currency has long-term prospects. However, they also point out the possibility that deflation will occur.



By design, the number of new coins decreases each year, but demand for Bitcoin is growing. This dynamic may lead to the digital economy entering a deflationary period. Since no centralized banking system or Federal Reserve equivalent oversees the currency, no intervention policies will be set into motion.



Furthermore, Bitcoin cannot be dropped and picked up by a fortunate passerby; if one loses their personal key, they lose the money, and the money is effectively pulled out of circulation. Additionally, there is a high level of wealth concentration among Bitcoin holders, meaning there is a relatively small number of users who can sell or, more importantly to this scenario, not sell.



With rising value comes more incentive to buy and hoard Bitcoin, which only increases the price and further decreases supply. This situation could hypothetically lead to a real-world occurrence of hyperdeflation.
What Is Hyperinflation?  

Hyperinflation is a term to describe rapid, excessive, and out-of-control general price increases in an economy. While inflation measures the pace of rising prices for goods and services, hyperinflation is rapidly rising inflation, typically measuring more than 50% per month.



Although hyperinflation is a rare event for developed economies, it has occurred many times throughout history in countries such as China, Germany, Russia, Hungary, and Georgia.





Key Takeaways

Hyperinflation refers to rapid and unrestrained price increases in an economy, typically at rates exceeding 50% each month over time.Hyperinflation can occur in circumstances affecting the underlying production economy, in conjunction with a central bank printing excessive money.Hyperinflation can cause a surge in prices for essential goods—such as food and fuel—as demand outpaces supply.While hyperinflation scenarios are typically rare, they can spiral out of control once they begin.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Hyperinflation  

Inflation is measured by the Bureau of Labor Statistics using the Consumer Price Index (CPI) to measure the dollar's purchasing power. The CPI is an index of the prices for about 94,000 commodities and services; around 8,000 rental housing unit quotes; and prices for airline fares, apparel, household goods, prescription drugs, used automobiles, and postage.



Generally speaking, the Federal Reserve strives to maintain what it calls a healthy inflation rate of around 2% over the long term. Hyperinflation is an extreme case of inflation, not just a high case. Inflation higher than 5% is considered high inflation. Inflation of 50% or more per month is considered hyperinflation.






For comparative purposes, the U.S. inflation rate measured by the CPI averaged about 2.5% per year from 2013 through 2022. The average for June through April of 2023 was 5.55%.



In an environment of hyperinflation, prices may increase daily or weekly, which can have a dramatic impact on what consumers pay for basic necessities. For instance, imagine you always buy the same items at the grocery store. If the economy were experiencing a rising inflation rate of 5% per day, your grocery bill might rise from $500 one week to $675 the next week, then as high $911 the week after that.


   Causes of Hyperinflation  

Although several circumstances can trigger hyperinflation, here are the most common causes of hyperinflation.


  Excessive Money Supply  

Central banks generally control the circulating supply of money. In circumstances that historically warrant an increase in the money supply—like a recession or depression—central banks can increase the amount of money circulating. The intent behind this action is to encourage banks to lend and consumers and businesses to borrow and spend.



However, if the increase in money supply is not supported by economic growth—as measured by gross domestic product (GDP)—hyperinflation can result. If GDP—the measure of an economy's production—isn't growing, businesses raise prices to boost profits and stay afloat.



Because consumers have more money, they pay higher prices and feed inflation. If economic output continues to stagnate or shrink and inflation keeps rising, companies charge more, consumers pay more, and the central bank prints more money. A cycle of increasing inflation rates occurs, leading to hyperinflation.


  Demand-Pull Inflation  

Demand-pull inflation is a scenario in which aggregate demand becomes too high for aggregate supply. This increases prices rapidly because there are not enough goods and services available to meet the increase in overall demand from consumers and businesses.






Hyperinflation is the product of many circumstances and poor monetary decision-making coming together.


   Effects of Hyperinflation  

Hyperinflation can cause several adverse consequences. People may begin hoarding goods, such as food. In turn, there can be food supply shortages.



When prices rise excessively, money decreases in value because inflation causes it to have less purchasing power. Less purchasing power means consumers spend more to buy less. As a result, they have less money to pay bills and fewer dollars to use on essential items.



Also, people might not deposit their money in financial institutions, leading banks and lenders to go out of business. Tax revenues may also fall if consumers and businesses can't pay, resulting in governments failing to provide essential services.


   How to Prepare for Hyperinflation  

It's critical to remember that hyperinflation doesn't happen very often, especially in developed countries where a central bank focuses on reigning in and controlling inflationary periods. However, there are some actions you can take to reduce the effects normal or high inflation have on your portfolio.



A balanced and diversified portfolio can help you reduce losses through inflationary periods. Commodities and real estate can reduce the adverse effects of inflation because they tend to increase in value during these times. Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) can hedge against rising inflation because the principal you have invested in a TIPS adjusts with inflation.



Mutual funds and exchange-traded funds that practice inflation swaps can also be used to combat the effects of inflation on your portfolio.


   Real-World Examples of Hyperinflation  
  Yugoslavia  

One of the more devastating and prolonged episodes of hyperinflation occurred in the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s. On the verge of national dissolution, the country had already been experiencing inflation at rates that exceeded 76% annually.



In 1991, it was discovered that the leader of the then-Serbian province, Slobodan Milosevic, had plundered the national treasury by having the Serbian central bank issue $1.4 billion of loans to his cronies.



The theft forced the government's central bank to print excessive amounts of money to take care of its financial obligations. As a result, hyperinflation quickly enveloped the economy, erasing what was left of the country’s wealth and forcing its people into bartering for goods. The inflation rate nearly doubled each day until it reached an unfathomable rate of 313,000,000% per month.



The government quickly took control of production and wages, which led to food shortages. As a result, incomes dropped by more than 50%, and production crawled to a stop. Eventually, the government replaced its currency with the German mark, which helped to stabilize the economy.


  Hungary  

Hungary experienced hyperinflation after World War II. At the peak of Hungary's inflation, prices were rising 207% per day.


  Zimbabwe  

In March 2007, Zimbabwe entered a period of hyperinflation that equaled a daily rate of inflation of 98% until early 2009. The country's hyperinflationary period began in 1999 after the country experienced several periods of drought and a following reduction in GDP.



As a result, the country was forced to borrow more than it produced, and the government began spending more. It increased taxes to pay bonuses to independence war veterans, became involved in a war in the Congo, and borrowed from the International Monetary Fund to improve development and living standards for citizens.



The government began printing money to pay for the expenses, causing an inflationary rise, and residents began to move to other countries to escape the economy. By 2010, millions of people had left the country, and the economy was in shambles.




What Will Happen If There Is Hyperinflation?
Hyperinflation doesn't occur without any indication. In the United States, if economists see signs of hyperinflation the Federal Reserve will implement any monetary policy tools allowed to ensure it doesn't happen. This happens long before inflation can reach the 50% rate. In the past, Federal Reserve chair Paul Volcker raised rates to more than 21% to combat a rate of more than 14%—leading to two recessions before inflation came under control.




Will the U.S. Go Into Hyperinflation?
It is doubtful that the U.S. will experience hyperinflation unless economic circumstances become very dire. The Federal Reserve and government have many tools at their disposal that can prevent hyperinflation from occurring.




What Was the Worst Hyperinflation in History?
Hungary experienced hyperinflation from August 1945 to Jul 1946, with a daily inflation rate of 207%.


   The Bottom Line  

Hyperinflation is a scenario in which a county's inflation rate rises 50% or more in one month. It is different than a country simply experiencing high inflation; 5% is considered high inflation.



Hyperinflation raises consumer prices and can make it difficult or impossible for a country to meet its financial obligations or produce goods and services. It causes the prices of everyday necessities to rise rapidly, making them hard for consumers to afford. However, hyperinflation does not occur often and usually has a cause, such as war, natural disasters, or political corruption.
What Is Hyperledger?  

Hyperledger is a global enterprise blockchain project that offers the necessary framework, standards, guidelines, and tools to build open-source blockchains and related applications for use across various industries. Hyperledger's projects include a variety of enterprise-ready permissioned blockchain platforms, where network participants are known to one another and therefore have an intrinsic interest in participating in the consensus-making process.



Using the available components under the Hyperledger umbrella, a business can apply various modular blockchain solutions and services to significantly improve the performance of their operations and the efficiency of their business processes.





Key Takeaways

Hyperledger is an open-source community focused on developing a suite of stable frameworks, tools, and libraries for permissioned, enterprise-grade blockchain deployments.It is a global collaboration, hosted by The Linux Foundation, and includes member organizations that are leaders in finance, banking, Internet of Things, supply chains, manufacturing, and technology.Several sub-projects exist, including Hyperledger Fabric, Sawtooth, Composer, and Cello.Hyperledger varies from Bitcoin as it is not a cryptocurrency but instead used to develop frameworks and tools. Hyperledger uses a consensus layer, smart contract layer, communication layer, and API. 


   Understanding Hyperledger  

The Hyperledger project was created in December 2015 by the San Francisco, California–based Linux Foundation. It started with 30 member firms and has grown to about 140 member companies today.



Hyperledger was set up with the aim of accelerating industry-wide collaboration for developing high-performance and reliable blockchain and distributed ledger-based technology framework that could be used across the various industry sectors to enhance the efficiency, performance, and transactions of the various business processes.



Hyperledger is a global collaboration that includes leading businesses from the fields of finance, banking, Internet of Things (IoT), supply chain management, manufacturing and production, and technology. They include big names like Bosch, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, Deloitte, Hitachi, American Express, JP Morgan, and Visa, in addition to a host of blockchain-based startups like ConsenSys.






The Linux Foundation has launched over 70 open sourced organizations with Hyperledger being among the fastest growing.


   Hyperledger's Organizational Structure  

Essentially, Hyperledger is not an organization, a cryptocurrency network, or a blockchain system. It does not support a cryptocurrency like bitcoin, but it works by providing the necessary infrastructure and standards for developing various blockchain-based systems and applications for industrial use. Think of Hyperledger as a hub, where various individual blockchain-based projects and tools that adhere to its defined design philosophy operate under its umbrella.



The various projects include the following:



Hyperledger Fabric is a platform for building various blockchain-based products, solutions, and applications for business use. A now-defunct layer called Hyperledger Composer has since been replaced with Fabric as well.
Hyperledger Cello allows blockchain to be used through an on-demand “as-a-service” deployment model (Blockchain-as-a-Service).
Hyperledger Explorer is a dashboard utility that allows for the monitoring, searching, and maintenance of blockchain developments and related data.
Hyperledger Burrow is a permissioned Ethereum smart-contract blockchain node that handles transactions and executes smart contract code on the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). It was discontinued in 2022.
Hyperledger Sawtooth is an enterprise-level, permissioned, modular blockchain platform that uses an innovative Proof of Elapsed Time consensus algorithm.
Hyperledger Caliper is a blockchain benchmark tool that is used to evaluate the performance of a specific blockchain implementation.



All such projects under the Hyperledger umbrella follow the design methodology that supports a modular and extensible approach, interoperability, and security features. The projects remain agnostic to a particular token or cryptocurrency, though a user can create one as required.






Hyperledger was founded in 2016 with 30 founding corporate members.


   Hyperledger Technology Layers  

In terms of the architecture, Hyperledger uses the following key business components:



The consensus layer takes care of creating an agreement on the order and confirming the correctness of the set of transactions that constitute a block.
The smart contract layer is responsible for processing transaction requests and authorizing only valid transactions.
The communication layer takes care of peer-to-peer message transport.
The identity management services are the necessary function for maintaining and validating the identities of users and systems and establishing trust on the blockchain.
The API, or application programming interface, enables external applications and clients to interface with the blockchain.


   Hyperledger vs. Bitcoin  

As mentioned earlier, Hyperledger is vastly different from Bitcoin in that it is not a cryptocurrency. The fundamental purpose and nature of the technology is to develop enterprise-grade blockchain frameworks and tools. While Bitcoin enables peer-to-peer transactions without the need for intermediaries, Hyperledger is more geared towards facilitating business processes.



Hyperledger frameworks are often private, permissioned blockchains meaning permission to the network is limited to a small number of trusted users. On the other hand, Bitcoin is a public blockchain meaning anyone can participate in the network. Each uses a different form of consensus mechanism as well, as Bitcoin transactions are substantiated using a proof-of-work consensus mechanism while Hyperledger supports Byzantine fault tolerance or other algorithms.



As hinted to in the previous paragraph, Bitcoin is decentralized. This means no single entity owns it, and the system relies on the collection of the network's participants. Alternatively, Hyperledger is governed by the Linux Foundation.



Last, Bitcoin is not known for its smart contracts. It's primary use is to store value, not support complex programmability to facilitate agreements. Alternatively, Hyperledger offers greater smart contract capabilities. This allows businesses to engage in complex agreements relying heavily on logic to distribute assets on a blockchain network.




Is Hyperledger Better Than Ethereum?
Hyperledger provides a scalable, customizable, and permissioned blockchain solution for enterprise use cases with a focus on privacy and confidentiality. Should companies feel they need greater support with open development and innovation, Ethereum may be the more suitable option that offers a more robust platform with a larger developer community.




Is Hyperledger a Cryptocurrency?
Hyperledger isn't a cryptocurrency, though. The Linux Foundation is hosting a collaborative open-source project with the goal of creating enterprise-grade blockchain frameworks and tools. Hyperledger does not entail the development or use of a cryptocurrency and instead focuses on creating private, permissioned blockchain networks for corporate purposes.




What Coin Does Hyperledger Use?
There is no native coin for Hyperledger. It is a blockchain framework that puts the emphasis on creating enterprise-grade solutions rather than using or creating a particular coin or cryptocurrency.


   The Bottom Line  

The Linux Foundation is home to the Hyperledger open-source collaborative project which aims to provide business-grade blockchain frameworks and technologies. Businesses may build private, permissioned blockchain networks for a variety of use cases. Hyperledger uses include supply chain management and smart contracts, and Hyperledger is known for its modular and adaptable solutions.
What Is Hyperledger Burrow?  

Hyperledger Burrow is a framework for executing smart contracts in permissioned blockchains. It is currently being incubated as part of Hyperledger, a community of open-source projects and tools for commercial implementations of blockchain technology. The goal of Hyperledger Burrow is to facilitate cross-industry applications for smart contracts.





Key Takeaways


Hyperledger Burrow is a framework that can be used to execute smart contracts in permissioned blockchains.
Hyperledger Burrow is built around a Byzantine Fault Tolerant consensus algorithm. There are no mining or transaction fees, allowing blockchains to scale up for commercial applications.
Hyperledger Burrow was conceived as ErisDB by Monax in 2014. It is now part of the Hyperledger family of blockchain projects.



   Understanding Hyperledger Burrow  

Following the success of Bitcoin, many blockchain advocates recognized the potential of using distributed ledgers to record smart contracts, self-executing programs that can operate without human management. However, existing networks such as Bitcoin or Ethereum were too limited for business applications, due to the high cost and latency of open blockchains.



In order to facilitate more scalable blockchains, the Linux Foundation launched the Hyperledger community in 2015. Many industry leaders joined the initiative in order to develop enterprise-grade blockchain tools, including IBM, Intel, and Microsoft.



Burrow is one of the projects under the Hyperledger umbrella, along with other enterprise-oriented platforms such as Hyperledger Fabric, Hyperledger Sawtooth, and Hyperledger Iroha. Originally called ErisDB, the project was designed by Monax, an open platform to build, ship, and run blockchain-based applications for business ecosystems. Processor and chipmaker, Intel, has also co-sponsored the project, which was accepted to the Hyperledger Incubator in April of 2017. The 2021 Q2 Hyperledger Burrow update suggests that it is doing better than ever before and that a logistics platform is being built on top of Burrow.


   How Hyperledger Burrow Works  

Hyperledger Burrow is a software that can be used to run nodes in a permissioned blockchain network. Because the participants in permissioned blockchains are known and trusted by the rest of the network, it is possible to achieve higher speeds and throughput than permissionless chains.



Unlike proof-of-work blockchains such as Ethereum, Hyperledger Burrow uses a Byzantine Fault-Tolerant consensus algorithm to establish transaction finality. There are no mining or transaction costs, and it can execute smart contracts at a much greater scale than open blockchains.



While it is similar to many other Hyperledger blockchain tools, the focus for Hyperledger Burrow is to provide a "clean and simple" developer experience, according to the Hyperledger Wiki. The key component of Hyperledger Burrow is a permissioned implementation of the Ethereum Virtual Machine, which allows it to interact with smart contracts on other Ethereum-based networks.


   Plans of Hyperledger Burrow  

Although it is still in the incubation stage, developers of Hyperledger Burrow believe that the project can help bridge the worlds of private and public blockchains. It is closely associated with the Cosmos Network, a network of interoperable blockchains that use a similar BFT consensus model.



Hyperledger Burrow can also interact with the Ethereum public chain, since they share the same smart contract language. Burrow's developers plan to introduce a two-way peg system with the Ethereum mainnet, allowing data and tokens to move seamlessly between chains. This would allow Hyperledger Burrow to operate as a high-speed "sidechain" to the public network. As Ethereum transitions to a proof-of-stake model, they will also integrate support for public staking.
What Is Hyperledger Composer?  

Hyperledger Composer is a set of open source tools that allows business owners, operators, and developers a way to create blockchain applications and smart contracts aimed at solving business problems and/or improving operational efficiencies. It is an example of a commercial application of blockchain-as-a-service (BaaS). Hyperledger Composer is one of the several Hyperledger projects hosted by The Linux Foundation in collaboration with corporate members.﻿﻿﻿﻿



As of August 2019, the Hyperledger Composer project is in deprecated status, meaning that while it is still in-use, none of the maintainers are actively developing new features or provide support. Composer has been combined into Hyperledger Fabric v1.4+.﻿﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

Hyperledger composer is a business-oriented set of tools for creating enterprise blockchain applications, under the umbrella of the Hyperledger project.Composer was meant to facilitate creation of open-source blockchain application that fostered collaboration between within organizations and business networks.﻿﻿Work on composer was halted in summer 2019, and is now part of the more comprehensive Hyperledger Fabric platform.﻿﻿


   Understanding Hyperledger Composer  

Hyperledger Composer is built in Javascript, a platform-independent programming language that also supports the use of built-in libraries and uses available functions and scripts to make the utilities more scalable and reusable. Composer is an application development framework which simplifies and expedites the creation of Hyperledger fabric blockchain applications.



Using Hyperledger Composer, a business person with no technical knowledge can easily collaborate with a developer to build specific features. They include defining the business rules based on which blockchain transactions will be processed, defining the assets that are exchanged in blockchain-based use cases, and define controls for participants, their identities, roles and access levels for performing the various kinds of transactions.



Similarly, a developer using Hyperledger Composer can easily build and configure core components of the blockchain which include the network’s digital assets, transaction logic, participants and access controls. Composer supports sharing, reusability and scalability of components across various organizations. One can easily generate the required scripts and APIs necessary for business implementation using Hyperledger Composer. It also supports use cases and real-time testing, which can even be performed through the web-based Composer playground without the need for local installations. 



Using Hyperledger Composer, it is possible for an individual to create and run a sample blockchain, and grant restricted permission to various participants. For instance, one can easily build a “Perishable Goods Network” that facilitates trading of items like fruits and vegetables, include participants like farmers, shippers and importers, define individual roles for each participant, define and execute terms of agreement between the participants, track shipments, acknowledge, monitor and report status of goods at various stage in the supply chain, and payments management.


   Special Considerations  

Hyperledger Composer offers a lot of advantages which include the faster creation of blockchain applications in easy steps, smooth and low-cost modeling and testing allowing the user to build, test and deploy various options and then implement the one that offers the best fit, and reusability of existing apps and APIs that reduce both effort and costs.



Business Network Archive is central to Hyperledger Composer’s architecture, and it maintains the core data and functionality of the business network that includes the business model, transaction logic and access controls. Composer Playground is the web-based interface that enables modeling the business requirements and functions, functional testing, as well as deployment testing on a live blockchain. A LoopBack connector that supports various APIs and integration capabilities allows a variety of client applications as well as non-blockchain applications an easy medium to interface with the Hyperledger Composer.
What Is Hyperledger Explorer?  

Hyperledger Explorer is an open source blockchain utility module that allows users to create a user-friendly web-based application, with which a user can view, initiate, organize or query various artifacts and developments that form an integral part of the blockchain network. It is to be used specifically on deployments of blockchains created using the Hyperledger umbrella.





Key Takeaways

Hyperledger Explorer is a user-friendly Web application tool used to view or invoke transactions, digital wallets, and other information stored in a Hyperledger blockchain deployment.The explorer is a useful tool in finding and understanding otherwise machine-readable data stored as encrypted ledger entries.In addition to basic blockchain explorer functionality, the tool provides enterprise-level visualizations that can help decision makers through intuitive graphs, charts, and tables.


   Understanding Hyperledger Explorer  

Hyperledger Explorer came into existence as the Hyperledger project has been consistently growing since its inception in 2016, and is now being used and contributed to by more than 130 organizations across the globe, under the auspice of the open source Linux Foundation. With such wide level adaptability, there emerged a need for an easy to use, human-interpretable utility that offers a dashboard view of blockchain happenings. Thus emerged Hyperledger Explorer, which was initially contributed to by technology stalwarts like IBM and Intel, and by the leading financial sector clearing and settlement company DTCC. Each of them initially developed their own versions of Explorer, and later merged their efforts to achieve the common goal under the Hyperledger project.



Like the standard utilities of Windows Explorer and Task Manager, Hyperledger Explorer can be regarded as an easy way to use an interface that allows users to view the necessary network information of the blockchain. It includes details like name, state and list of network nodes, details of blocks, transactions and related data, transaction families, chain codes, and any other relevant details that may be stored on the blockchain.



Since all such raw blockchain data is usually in a format that is difficult to read for humans, Hyperledger Explorer attempts to provide an easy visualization by using graphs, charts, pictures, and templates, in addition to the usual search and monitoring facility.


   How Hyperledger Explorer Works  

Its architecture includes a web server that runs in the backend and is responsible for interacting with all other components and maintaining the necessary query-server response. The web sockets are used to communicate between the server and the various client components of Hyperledger Explorer. A RethinkDB database is used to store the necessary details about blockchain components like information about blocks, transactions, and smart contracts, and this can be queried for any necessary information. A security repository takes care of ensuring only secure and authorized access is maintained for accessing the Hyperledger Explorer.



Hyperledger Explorer allows for a unified enterprise-level visualization, which may be needed in real-time by a blockchain developer developing a particular feature or component on the blockchain, or by a researcher seeking to study historical developments, or by blockchain operators who are responsible for managing the blockchain, or by top management.



The following animated image presents multiple facets of how Hyperledger Explorer is configured and what it provides.















Hyperledger Explorer Image Courtesy: Altoros.
What Is Hyperledger Fabric?  

Hyperledger Fabric is a modular blockchain framework that acts as a foundation for developing blockchain-based products, solutions, and applications using plug-and-play components that are aimed for use within private enterprises.





Key Takeaways

Hyperledger is an enterprise-grade, open-source distributed ledger framework launched by the Linux Foundation in December 2016.Fabric is a highly-modular, decentralized ledger technology (DLT) platform that was designed by IBM for industrial enterprise use.Because Hyperledger Fabric is private and requires permission to access, businesses can segregate information (like prices), plus transactions can be sped up because the number of nodes on the network is reduced.Fabric 2.0 was released in January 2020. The main features of this version are faster transactions, updated smart contract technology, and streamlined data sharing.



Hyperledger Fabric was initiated by Digital Asset and IBM and has now emerged as a collaborative cross-industry venture, which is currently being hosted by the Linux Foundation. Among the several Hyperledger projects, Fabric was the first one to exit the "greenhouse" and was released in July 2017.


   How Hyperledger Fabric Works  

Traditional blockchain networks can’t support private transactions and confidential contracts that are of utmost importance for businesses. Hyperledger Fabric was designed in response to this as a modular, scalable and secure foundation for offering industrial blockchain solutions.



Hyperledger Fabric is the open-source engine for blockchain and takes care of the most important features for evaluating and using blockchain for business use cases.



Within private industrial networks, the verifiable identity of a participant is a primary requirement. Hyperledger Fabric supports memberships based on permission; all network participants must have known identities. Many business sectors, such as healthcare and finance, are bound by data protection regulations that mandate maintaining data about the various participants and their respective access to various data points. Fabric supports such permission-based membership.


  Modular Architecture  

The modular architecture of Hyperledger Fabric separates the transaction processing workflow into three different stages: smart contracts called chaincode that comprise the distributed logic processing and agreement of the system, transaction ordering, and transaction validation and commitment. This segregation offers multiple benefits:



A reduced number of trust levels and verification that keeps the network and processing clutter-freeImproved network scalabilityBetter overall performance



Additionally, Hyperledger Fabric’s support for plug-and-play of various components allows for easy reuse of existing features and ready-made integration of various modules. For instance, if a function already exists that verifies the participant’s identity, an enterprise-level network simply needs to plug and reuse this existing module instead of building the same function from scratch.



The participants on the network have three distinct roles:



EndorserCommitterConsenter



In a nutshell, the transaction proposal is submitted to the endorser peer according to the predefined endorsement policy about the number of endorsers required. After sufficient endorsements by the endorser(s), a batch or block of transactions is delivered to the committer(s). Committers validate that the endorsement policy was followed and that there are no conflicting transactions. Once both the checks are made, the transactions are committed to the ledger.













Image source: IBM



Since only confirming instructions—such as signatures and read/write set—are sent across the network, the scalability and performance of the network is enhanced. Only endorsers and committers have access to the transaction, and security is improved with a fewer number of participants having access to key data points.


   Example of Hyperledger Fabric  

Suppose there's a manufacturer that wants to ship chocolates to a specific retailer or market of retailers (i.e., all US retailers) at a specific price but does not want to reveal that price in other markets (i.e., Chinese retailers).



Since the movement of the product may involve other parties, like customs, a shipping company, and a financing bank, the private price may be revealed to all involved parties if a basic version of blockchain technology is used to support this transaction.



Hyperledger Fabric addresses this issue by keeping private transactions private on the network; only participants who need to know are aware of the necessary details. Data partitioning on the blockchain allows specific data points to be accessible only to the parties who need to know.


   Criticism of Hyperledger Fabric  

The high-water mark of crypto-enthusiasm broke in 2018 after the collapse of the price of bitcoin (which hit its peak on Dec. 17, 2017). Overoptimistic claims about the value of the new technology were replaced with skepticism, and related technologies, including Hyperledger, also suffered from this skepticism.


  Hyperledger Fabric's Competitors  

Hyperledger Fabric competes with other Hyperledger projects like Iroha, Indy, and Sawtooth. It also competes with R3's Corda, which is also a private, permission-based DLT.



Blockchain service firm Chainstack published a paper in January 2020 that shows development in Corda has been historically higher than development in Fabric, though Fabric development passed Corda's in Q3 2019 when Fabric switched to GitHub.



The Chainstack report shows that while there are three times as many developers working on Fabric, Corda developers made more than two times as many code contributions, and Fabric developers push far less code per developer than Corda's developers.


  Hyperledger Fabric Is Not Blockchain and Is Not Efficient  

Several critiques of Hyperledger Fabric point out that a permission-based, private blockchain with Hyperledger Fabric's features is not a blockchain, and current non-blockchain technologies are far less expensive and deliver the same amount of security. Cointelegraph's Stuart Popejoy put the case like this:



Fabric’s architecture is far more complex than any blockchain platform while also being less secure against tampering and attacks. You would think that a “private” blockchain would at least offer scalability and performance, but Fabric fails here as well. Simply put, pilots built on Fabric will face a complex and insecure deployment that won’t be able to scale with their businesses.



Hyperledger Fabric has also been critiqued for lacking resiliency. A team of researchers from the Sorbonne in Paris and CSIRO - Data61, Australia's national science agency, found that significant network delays reduced the reliability of Fabric: "[B]y delaying block propagation, we demonstrated that Hyperledger Fabric does not provide sufficient consistency guarantees to be deployed in critical environments."


   Hyperledger Fabric 2.0 Released in January 2020  

In January of 2020, Hyperledger Fabric 2.0 was released to address some of the existing criticisms. According to Ron Miller at Techcrunch, "The biggest updates involve forcing agreement among the parties before any new data can be added to the ledger, known as decentralized governance of the smart contracts."



Although the update isn't a sea-change in the simplicity or applicability of Fabric, it does demonstrate that progress continues to be made in the cryptocurrency industry beyond the crypto-mania that occurred in 2018. Over the next five to ten years, it's expected that enterprise blockchain will undoubtedly find its proper use.
What Is Hyperledger Iroha?  

Hyperledger Iroha is a blockchain platform designed to be easily integrable in various business uses that require distributed ledger technology. For example, the platform can be used to help companies and governments with identity management, such as national IDs, and the financial services sector with bank-to-bank transfers.



According to the company's website, "Hyperledger aims to create distributed ledger technology that enables organizations to build and run robust, industry-specific applications, platforms and hardware systems to support their individual business transactions."



Launched in May 2019, Hyperledger Iroha is one of the projects under the Hyperledger umbrella and is hosted by the Linux Foundation. The Japanese fintech company, Soramitsu Co. Ltd., has open-sourced the code for Iroha. It was originally contributed by Soramitsu, Hitachi, NTT Data, and Colu.





Key Takeaways

Hyperledger Iroha is a business blockchain framework designed for infrastructure projects that need distributed ledger technology.Iroha's platform can be used to build an identity management system such as national IDs.Software apps can also be developed for the unbanked, allowing access to financial services, money transfers, and to buy goods from merchants.Hyperledger Iroha can integrate with Linux, macOS, and Windows platforms.


   Understanding Hyperledger Iroha  

Hyperledger Iroha is a business blockchain framework designed to be incorporated into infrastructure projects that need distributed ledger technology. The distributed ledger feature of a blockchain works similar to a shared database, which can allow data to be shared publicly. However, many businesses can use a private blockchain network as a framework to build software applications—called apps—for their use internally or to offer technology-based products to their customers.



Hyperledger Iroha's platform enables users to build applications specific to their business needs, particularly for mobile applications. It features a domain-driven C++ design, which is a programming language used by software engineers. Iroha also features a consensus algorithm called YAC (for Yet Another Consensus algorithm). An algorithm is a step-by-step procedure that's written in code, which is designed to solve the problems and carry out a sequence of instructions.



Features of Hyperledger Iroha include:



Multisignature (or multiple keys) functionalities for transactions when an application needs multiple signatures for transaction settlementSupport for writing applications on different platforms (e.g., mobile and mainframe) using programming languages like Java, JS, Python, and iOSMultiple compatible operating systems including Windows, Linux, and macOSPlug-in, modular design to make it easy for a developer to get a blockchain up and running



Iroha allows easy deployment and maintenance, a vast range of code libraries for developers to enable hassle-free application development, secure control and permissions over user roles and activities, easy asset management and participant identity, and modular design architecture to facilitate the blockchain ecosystem.



For example, the National Bank of Cambodia uses Hyperledger Iroha to reach the unbanked population, especially in rural areas, promote the use of the national currency instead of U.S. dollars, reduce the compliance burdens on some payment service providers, and modernize retail payments to deliver better services at lower cost. A pilot project went live in July 2019 and ran successfully with more than 10,000 users and a network of 16 banks, reaching a retail throughput of up to 2,000 transactions per second.


   Permission-Based vs. Public Blockchains  

Iroha differs from other popular blockchain networks, like Bitcoin and Ethereum, as the latter operate as permissionless ledgers, which allow anyone to join and grant access to everything on the network. Iroha’s operations are permissioned—that is, only participants with suitable access are allowed to join, interact, and contribute to the blockchain system.



In a permissioned network, the participants might be known to one another, which means they could have shared interests leading to collaboration and consensus. A permissioned network allows participants to share data within a secure blockchain.



Conversely, in a public blockchain, the data is made public. Also, transactions on a public blockchain need to be verified as accurate and not fraudulent, which is part of the proof-of-work process. As a result, public blockchains often face latency or slowness since the system gets bogged down as the volume of transactions increases.



In a permissioned network, similar to Hyperledger Iroha, problems can be resolved more quickly than on a public blockchain since the network isn't held up by the proof-of-work mechanisms. However, data querying can be restricted on Iroha, as not everyone is allowed to read and verify the data on the blockchain. Unlike Bitcoin or Ethereum, Iroha does not have a native cryptocurrency, but it can be created by an eligible participant as required for their own enterprise use.


   Applications of Hyperledger Iroha  

Using Iroha, a business can create and manage simple digital assets like any standard cryptocurrency or complex ones like indivisible rights, certificate authenticity, and patents.


  Certifications  

Iroha allows building certifying identities, which enables granting as well as verification of various certificates issued to individuals by educational and healthcare institutes. A candidate's university degree can be stored on the blockchain, and any qualifying hiring agency or employer can be given verification rights to authenticate the candidate's information during the hiring process.


  Digital Avatars  

Iroha can also be used to create digital avatars of real-world assets that can be transacted with zero or low transaction fees. For instance, the current owner of a vintage car can create a digital asset that represents the vintage car on the blockchain and then link its ownership to themself. To transfer ownership, they can then create an offer using a multi-signature transaction, which includes the cost of transfer in a particular currency. The interested counterparty can accept the offer on the blockchain and complete the transaction by transferring the currency to the present owner, and receive the ownership of the car in return.


  Know Your Customer (KYC)  

Hyperledger Iroha can also be used in the identity management process needed for Know Your Customer (KYC) requirements. KYC is a standard requirement in the financial services industry that establishes guidelines for banks and investment firms to know their client. For example, KYC helps to establish an understanding of a client's risk tolerance for investment purposes.



KYC also involves accepting the proper identification and corporate resolutions during the account opening process as well as understanding the type of industry and how a business earns its income. KYC is critical to financial firms in that it helps them ensure their customers are treated properly but also is designed to prevent fraud and money laundering.



As a result, there is a significant amount of documentation involved in the KYC process. Instead of a user submitting KYC documents to each institute separately, they can create the necessary identity on the blockchain, which can be accessed by the various qualifying institutes as needed for KYC compliance.


  Smart Contracts  

Iroha offers smart contracts, which are self-executing contracts that contain terms of an agreement between two parties that is written in code. If one party satisfies their end of the agreement through the blockchain network, the smart contract automatically executes the other end of the agreement.



In this way, Iroha can offer an alternative to Ethereum’s smart contracts, which may require writing cumbersome code. The same can be achieved quickly and simply by using the built-in commands in Iroha to complete common tasks more quickly and with lower complexity and lower risk.


   Example of Hyperledger Iroha  

Bakong is Cambodia's mobile payment and banking software application (app) and is the first retail payments system that uses blockchain technology. Bakong is sponsored by the National Bank of Cambodia, which is the country’s central bank and is built on Hyperledger Iroha's network.



Bakong allows businesses and individuals the ability to transfer money and buy from merchants using a smartphone app. Merchants can also make cashless and secure payments, while banks can make interbank transfers at a lower cost than typical wire transfers.



Bakong—launched in 2019—was developed by Soramitsu, which is a global technology company that develops blockchain-based solutions including domestic and cross-border payment systems. Bakong has since partnered with more than 40 financial institutions. 



Using Hyperledger's Iroha network, the project is designed to reach Cambodia's unbanked citizens by allowing any citizen to open an account regardless of whether they have a traditional bank account or not. Reaching those who are unbanked is a major issue for Cambodia since 78% of its citizens do not have a bank account. However, more than 50% of its people own a smartphone. The benefits of financial inclusion from the blockchain project also allow those citizens to do business with more than 500 merchants through the app.




How Many Types of Hyperledger are There?
There are five types of Hyperledger blockchain technologies:Hyperledger FabricHyperledger SawtoothHyperledger Indy Hyperledger Iroha Hyperledger Burrow




What Is the Most Popular Hyperledger?
Hyperledger Fabric is the most popular Hyperledger framework. Hyperledger Fabric 2.0, released in January 2020, allows for faster transactions, updated smart contract technology, and streamlined data sharing.




What Are Some Alternatives to Hyperledger Iroha?
Ethereum, Composer, Ripple, MultiChain, and IPFS, are other platforms, protocols, and networks that can be used as Hyperledger Iroha.


   The Bottom Line  

Hyperledger Iroha is a blockchain platform designed to be used by businesses that require distributed ledger technology. It's especially useful in the financial services sector to deal with identity management or to buid banking apps. Hyperledger Iroha is easy to adopt because of its modular architecture, plug-in design, and multiple platform support, which includes Java, JS, Python, and iOS.
What Is Hyperledger Sawtooth?  

Hyperledger Sawtooth is an open source project under the Hyperledger umbrella, and works as an enterprise level blockchain system used for creating and operating distributed ledger applications and networks particularly for use by enterprises. 





Key Takeaways

Hyperledger Sawtooth is an open source enterprise blockchain-as-a-service platform that can run customized smart contracts without needing to know the underlying design of the core system.Hyperledger is an umbrella blockchain development group sponsored by organizations such as the Linux Project, IBM, Intel, and SAP.Hyperledger Sawtooth supports a variety of consensus algorithms, including Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (PBFT) and Proof of Elapsed Time (PoET)


   Understanding Hyperledger Sawtooth  

Developed by the Linux Foundation in collaboration with IBM, Intel, and SAP, the underlying design concept of Hyperledger Sawtooth aims to keep the ledgers truly distributed, and make smart contracts much secure and thus suitable for businesses. It is an implementation of blockchain-as-a-service (BaaS).



In most standard blockchain-based systems, core and applications are hosted and executed on the same platform, which may lead to performance issues as well as security concerns. 



Hyperledger Sawtooth segregates the core ledger system from the application specific environment, thereby simplifying the application development yet keeping the system safe and secure. Using this architecture, a developer can build applications in their programming language of choice that can be hosted, operated, and run on the system periphery without interfering with the core blockchain system.



Supported languages include C++, Go, Java, JavaScript, Python and Rust. A Sawtooth application can be based on a core business logic required for a business need, or it can be developed and run as a smart contract virtual machine that has a self-governing mechanism for creating, notifying and executing the contracts between various participants on the blockchain.﻿﻿



The core system allows applications to co-exist on the same blockchain, selects transaction rules, selects the necessary permissioning mechanism, and defines the consensus algorithms that are used to finalize the working of the digital ledger in a way that best supports the needs of an enterprise.


   How Hyperledger Sawtooth Works  

Sawtooth enables selective permissions – that is, one can easily deploy certain select clusters of Sawtooth nodes with different permissions on the same blockchain. The ledger stores the necessary details about the permissions, nodes and identities.



The operating performance of the Sawtooth network is boosted by the mechanism of parallel transaction execution, which has an upper hand over the serial execution mechanism that often is a bottleneck when dealing with high volumes of transactions on many popular cryptocurrency networks.



Sawtooth supports Proof of Elapsed Time (POET) consensus mechanism that offers benefits of low resource utilization and low energy consumption, and is commonly used on the permissioned blockchain networks to decide the mining rights or the block winners on the network. (For more, see Proof of Elapsed Time.)﻿﻿



Some real-world examples using Sawtooth-based applications include Sawtooth Supply Chain, which helps an enterprise keep track of contextual and logistics-related information of an asset represented on the blockchain, Sawtooth Marketplace, which helps participants trade in specified quantities of digital assets on the blockchain, and Sawtooth Private UTXO, which facilitates digital asset creation and trading, including off-ledger and privately-held transactions.
What Is a Hypermarket?  

A hypermarket is a retail store that combines a department store and a grocery supermarket. Often a very large establishment, hypermarkets offer a wide variety of products such as appliances, clothing, and groceries.



Hypermarkets offer shoppers a one-stop shopping experience. The idea behind this big box store is to provide consumers with all the goods they require, under one roof. Some of the most well-known hypermarkets include the Walmart Supercenter, Fred Meyer, Meijer, and Super Kmart.





Key Takeaways

A hypermarket is a retail store that combines a department store and a grocery supermarket. The idea behind hypermarkets is to provide consumers with all the goods they require under one roof. Big box retailers sell high volumes of merchandise, which in most cases affords them greater buying power compared with retailers who sell goods in smaller quantities.The presence of a hypermarket can mean discount prices with profit margins that local competitors might not be able to sustain.



Fred Meyer, based in Portland, Oregon, is often credited with founding the first U.S. hypermarket in 1931 when it opened its store in Portland's Hollywood District. The store combined the existing supermarket model with a pharmacy and clothing retailer.



Hypermarkets can include warehouse-like stores that might also offer merchandise found in discount stores or specialty stores at one location.


   Understanding Hypermarkets  

Big box retailers have the advantage of selling high volumes of merchandise, which in most cases affords them greater buying power compared with retailers who sell goods in smaller quantities.



This lets companies such as Walmart, Cosco, and Tesco apply pricing pressure on vendors, potentially securing discounts on goods that their rivals cannot get from the vendors. This practice allows hypermarket companies to sell merchandise at lower rates than their competitors.



The combination of a full supermarket with the wide variety of merchandise offerings found in department stores and other types of retailers can pose a highly competitive existential threat to local supermarkets and other retailers alike.


   Local Market Pressure  

A company such as Walmart poses a particular threat with its hypermarket locations because of its efforts to keep its employees from unionizing. In many American supermarkets, employees are members of labor unions that negotiate for collective benefits such as regular salary increases and health insurance. Historically, Walmart has kept unions from taking root in its stores, which has arguably allowed the company to control its costs in ways that traditional supermarkets cannot.



The presence of a hypermarket from a company such as Walmart can mean discount prices with profit margins that local competitors might not be able to sustain. This can force rival supermarkets to attempt to renegotiate terms with their workers or make cost-cutting measures in order to remain viable. In extreme cases, the long-term effects of these practices can drive competition out of business.



Given the range of products available through hypermarkets, such a retailer may also pose a competitive threat to shopping centers that traditionally served as focal points for different retailers to operate from.



Such shopping centers might include a supermarket, department stores, and other specialty stores that sell comparable merchandise that a hypermarket may sell. The difference is that the operator and owner of a hypermarket would see combined sales from all of these channels.



Hypermarkets can be found across international markets such as Europe, Asia, the Middle East, North Africa, and the Americas.
What Is HyperText Markup Language (HTML)?  

HyperText Markup Language (HTML) is the set of markup symbols or codes inserted into a file intended for display on the Internet. The markup tells web browsers how to display a web page's words and images.



Each individual piece markup code (which would fall between "<" and ">" characters) is referred to as an element, though many people also refer to it as a tag. Some elements come in pairs that indicate when some display effect is to begin and when it is to end.





Key Takeaways


HyperText Markup Language (HTML) is the basic scripting language used by web browsers to render pages on the world wide web.
HyperText allows a user to click a link and be redirected to a new page referenced by that link.
Early versions of HTML were static (Web 1.0), while newer iterations feature a great deal of dynamic flexibility (Web 2.0, 3.0).
Markup is the text that appears between two pointed brackets (e.g., ), and content is everything else.



   Understanding HTML  

HyperText Markup Language is the computer language that facilitates website creation. The language, which has code words and syntax just like any other language, is relatively easy to comprehend and, as time goes on, increasingly powerful in what it allows someone to create. HTML continues to evolve to meet the demands and requirements of the Internet under the guise of the World Wide Web Consortium, the organization that designs and maintains the language; for instance, with the transition to Web 2.0.



HyperText is the method by which Internet users navigate the web. By clicking on special text called hyperlinks, users are brought to new pages. The use of hyper means it is not linear, so users can go anywhere on the Internet simply by clicking on the available links. Markup is what HTML tags do to the text inside of them; they mark it as a specific type of text. For example, markup text could come in the form of boldface or italicized type to draw specific attention to a word or phrase.


   HyperText Markup Language Basics  

At its core, HTML is a series of short codes typed into a text-file. These are the tags that power HTML’s capabilities. The text is saved as an HTML file and viewed through a web browser. The browser reads the file and translates the text into a visible form, as directed by the codes the author used to write what becomes the visible rendering. Writing HTML requires tags to be used correctly to create the author’s vision.



The tags are what separate normal text from HTML code. Tags are the words between what are known as angle-brackets, which allow graphics, images, and tables to appear on the webpage. Different tags perform different functions. The most basic tags apply formatting to text. As web interfaces need to become more dynamic, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and JavaScript applications may be used. CSS makes web pages more accessible and JavaScript adds power to basic HTML.


   HTML vs. XML  

Unlike HTML, Extensible Markup Language, or XML, allows users to define their own markup. For instance, using XML, one user could choose to denote a footnote with the tag , while another user could opt for .



Using HTML, only one pre-determined tag can be used to denote a specific type of information. XML documents are meant to be easy to read since they contain user-defined tags and since the documents only consist of markup and content.
What Is Hypothecation?  

Hypothecation occurs when an asset is pledged as collateral to secure a loan. The owner of the asset does not give up title, possession, or ownership rights, such as income generated by the asset. However, the lender can seize the asset if the terms of the agreement are not met. Hypothecation is different from a mortgage, lien, or assignment.





Key Takeaways

Hypothecation occurs when an asset is pledged as collateral to secure a loan. The owner of the asset does not give up title, possession, or ownership rights, such as income generated by the asset.Hypothecation occurs most commonly in mortgage lending, where the home serves as collateral but the bank does not have any claim on cash flows or income generated from it unless the borrower defaults.Margin lending in brokerage accounts is another common form of hypothecation found in securities trading and investing.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Hypothecation in Mortgages  

Hypothecation occurs most commonly in mortgage lending. A mortgage is a type of loan that's secured by an underlying property. The borrower technically owns the house, but because the house is pledged as collateral, the mortgage lender has the right to seize the house if the borrower cannot meet the repayment terms of the loan agreement—which occurred during the foreclosure crisis.



Auto loans are similarly secured by the underlying vehicle. Unsecured loans, on the other hand, do not work with hypothecation because there is no collateral to claim in the event of default. As hypothecation provides security to the lender because of the collateral pledged by the borrower, it is easier to secure a loan, and the lender may offer a lower interest rate than on an unsecured loan.





Important

Though lenders cannot claim collateral for unsecured loans in default, they can pursue other debt collection actions, including a creditor lawsuit.


   Hypothecation in Investing  

Margin lending in brokerage accounts is another common form of hypothecation. When an investor trades on margin, they're borrowing money from the brokerage to do so. This can allow them to leverage their existing account balances to make larger investments and potentially net larger profits on the sale of securities.



This type of hypothecation can be risky, however. When an investor chooses to buy on margin or sell short, they are agreeing that those securities can be sold if necessary if there is a margin call. The investor owns the securities in their account, but the broker can sell them if they issue a margin call that the investor cannot meet to cover the investor's losses.



This can be costly for the investor because it can amplify losses well beyond the initial investment made. For that reason, it's important to understand how margin trading works and what hypothecation could mean for you on a personal level.


   Examples of Hypothecation Agreement  

Hypothecation in real estate is most often associated with mortgage loans. A rental property, for example, may undergo hypothecation as collateral against a mortgage issued by a bank. While the property remains collateral, the bank has no claim on rental income that comes in; however, if the landlord defaults on the loan, the bank may seize the property by initiating a foreclosure proceeding.



The use of hypothecation in real estate agreements can offer some reassurance to lenders who may want to mitigate risk when loaning money. If the borrower doesn't pay for any reason, the bank can potentially recoup some of its losses if it's able to foreclose and then resell the property later. In that sense, hypothecation aids in stabilizing the mortgage lending industry.



Hypothecation can also work in favor of borrowers. By entering into this type of agreement, borrowers may find it easier to obtain mortgage loans with a smaller down payment or lower credit score requirements. They may also be able to qualify for more favorable interest rates because the lender is assuming less risk.





Tip

Foreclosure can be exceptionally damaging to your credit scores, so if you're struggling with mortgage payments, it may be helpful to reach out to your lender to discuss possible solutions.


   Hypothecation in Commercial Real Estate  

Hypothecation in commercial real estate is the same as it is in residential real estate lending. The borrower posts collateral in order to secure a loan. So again, an investor who's borrowing to purchase a rental property, such as an apartment building or duplex, would use the property itself as collateral for the loan.



Construction loans in commercial real estate work a little differently. Because the property that would otherwise serve as collateral has yet to be built, the borrower would need to provide other property as substitute collateral. The same rule, however, would apply with regard to default. If the borrower fails to pay the loan, the lender could claim ownership of the collateral.


   What Is Rehypothecation?  

When banks and brokers use hypothecated collateral as collateral to back their own transactions and trades with their client’s agreement, in order to secure a lower cost of borrowing or a rebate on fees, this is called rehypothecation. For example, the lender may use an apartment building offered as collateral for a commercial real estate loan as collateral for a new loan. This newly created debt is now a derivative.



Rehypothecation is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Banks and lenders must have permission from the owner of the property or assets to do this.





Note

Rehypothecation by banks and financial institutions is a less common practice today due to the adverse impact this practice had during the financial crisis of 2008.




How Do Hypothecation and a Mortgage Differ?
Hypothecation is the pledging of an asset as collateral for a loan, without transferring the property's title to the lender. In a mortgage, the property purchased is used to secure the loan, but the lender holds the title.




Is Assignment the Same as Hypothecation?
Assignment is an arrangement involving contracts, in which one party assigns rights and responsibilities outlined in a contract to another party. Hypothecation allows a borrower to hold onto a property while using it as security for a loan.




What Is Hypothecation vs. a Lien?
With hypothecation, the borrower is allowed to hold the property used as collateral for the loan. The borrower agrees to repay the loan on the condition that if they don't, the lender can claim the property. A lien, however, requires a property owner to satisfy outstanding debts before an underlying property can be refinanced or sold.




What Is an Example of Hypothecation?
An example of hypothecation would be an investor who takes out a mortgage loan to purchase an investment property. The property serves as collateral for the loan. Meanwhile, the investor collects the rental income derived from it. But if the investor defaults, the lender can initiate a foreclosure proceeding to take ownership of the property.


   The Bottom Line  

Hypothecation often applies in real estate lending transactions, in which a property is used to secure a loan. But it can also be used in other types of loan situations as well as investing. If you're entering into a loan agreement that includes hypothecation, it's important to understand the potential consequences if you fail to uphold your financial obligation to the lender.
What Is Hypothesis Testing?  

Hypothesis testing, sometimes called significance testing, is an act in statistics whereby an analyst tests an assumption regarding a population parameter. The methodology employed by the analyst depends on the nature of the data used and the reason for the analysis.



Hypothesis testing is used to assess the plausibility of a hypothesis by using sample data. Such data may come from a larger population, or from a data-generating process. The word "population" will be used for both of these cases in the following descriptions.





Key Takeaways

Hypothesis testing is used to assess the plausibility of a hypothesis by using sample data.The test provides evidence concerning the plausibility of the hypothesis, given the data.Statistical analysts test a hypothesis by measuring and examining a random sample of the population being analyzed.The four steps of hypothesis testing include stating the hypotheses, formulating an analysis plan, analyzing the sample data, and analyzing the result.






   How Hypothesis Testing Works  

In hypothesis testing, an analyst tests a statistical sample, with the goal of providing evidence on the plausibility of the null hypothesis.



Statistical analysts test a hypothesis by measuring and examining a random sample of the population being analyzed. All analysts use a random population sample to test two different hypotheses: the null hypothesis and the alternative hypothesis.



The null hypothesis is usually a hypothesis of equality between population parameters; e.g., a null hypothesis may state that the population mean return is equal to zero. The alternative hypothesis is effectively the opposite of a null hypothesis (e.g., the population mean return is not equal to zero). Thus, they are mutually exclusive, and only one can be true. However, one of the two hypotheses will always be true.






The null hypothesis is a statement about a population parameter, such as the population mean, that is assumed to be true.


  4 Steps of Hypothesis Testing  

All hypotheses are tested using a four-step process:



The first step is for the analyst to state the hypotheses.The second step is to formulate an analysis plan, which outlines how the data will be evaluated.The third step is to carry out the plan and analyze the sample data.The final step is to analyze the results and either reject the null hypothesis, or state that the null hypothesis is plausible, given the data.


   Real-World Example of Hypothesis Testing  

If, for example, a person wants to test that a penny has exactly a 50% chance of landing on heads, the null hypothesis would be that 50% is correct, and the alternative hypothesis would be that 50% is not correct.



Mathematically, the null hypothesis would be represented as Ho: P = 0.5. The alternative hypothesis would be denoted as "Ha" and be identical to the null hypothesis, except with the equal sign struck-through, meaning that it does not equal 50%.



A random sample of 100 coin flips is taken, and the null hypothesis is then tested. If it is found that the 100 coin flips were distributed as 40 heads and 60 tails, the analyst would assume that a penny does not have a 50% chance of landing on heads and would reject the null hypothesis and accept the alternative hypothesis.



If, on the other hand, there were 48 heads and 52 tails, then it is plausible that the coin could be fair and still produce such a result. In cases such as this where the null hypothesis is "accepted," the analyst states that the difference between the expected results (50 heads and 50 tails) and the observed results (48 heads and 52 tails) is "explainable by chance alone."






Some staticians attribute the first hypothesis tests to satirical writer John Arbuthnot in 1710, who studied male and female births in England after observing that in nearly every year, male births exceeded female births by a slight proportion. Arbuthnot calculated that the probability of this happening by chance was small, and therefore it was due to “divine providence.”




What is Hypothesis Testing?
Hypothesis testing refers to a process used by analysts to assess the plausibility of a hypothesis by using sample data. In hypothesis testing, statisticians formulate two hypotheses: the null hypothesis and the alternative hypothesis. A null hypothesis determines there is no difference between two groups or conditions, while the alternative hypothesis determines that there is a difference. Researchers evaluate the statistical significance of the test based on the probability that the null hypothesis is true.




What are the Four Key Steps Involved in Hypothesis Testing?
Hypothesis testing begins with an analyst stating two hypotheses, with only one that can be right. The analyst then formulates an analysis plan, which outlines how the data will be evaluated. Next, they move to the testing phase and analyze the sample data. Finally, the analyst analyzes the results and either rejects the null hypothesis or states that the null hypothesis is plausible, given the data.




What are the Benefits of Hypothesis Testing?
Hypothesis testing helps assess the accuracy of new ideas or theories by testing them against data. This allows researchers to determine whether the evidence supports their hypothesis, helping to avoid false claims and conclusions. Hypothesis testing also provides a framework for decision-making based on data rather than personal opinions or biases. By relying on statistical analysis, hypothesis testing helps to reduce the effects of chance and confounding variables, providing a robust framework for making informed conclusions.




What are the Limitations of Hypothesis Testing?
Hypothesis testing relies exclusively on data and doesn’t provide a comprehensive understanding of the subject being studied. Additionally, the accuracy of the results depends on the quality of the available data and the statistical methods used. Inaccurate data or inappropriate hypothesis formulation may lead to incorrect conclusions or failed tests. Hypothesis testing can also lead to errors, such as analysts either accepting or rejecting a null hypothesis when they shouldn’t have. These errors may result in false conclusions or missed opportunities to identify significant patterns or relationships in the data.


   The Bottom Line  

Hypothesis testing refers to a statistical process that helps researchers and/or analysts determine the reliability of a study. By using a well-formulated hypothesis and set of statistical tests, individuals or businesses can make inferences about the population that they are studying and draw conclusions based on the data presented. There are different types of hypothesis testing, each with their own set of rules and procedures. However, all hypothesis testing methods have the same four step process, which includes stating the hypotheses, formulating an analysis plan, analyzing the sample data, and analyzing the result. Hypothesis testing plays a vital part of the scientific process, helping to test assumptions and make better data-based decisions.
What Is Hysteresis?  

Hysteresis in the field of economics refers to an event in the economy that persists even after the factors that led to that event have been removed or otherwise run their course. Hysteresis often occurs following extreme or prolonged economic events such as an economic crash or recession. After a recession, for example, the unemployment rate may continue to increase despite growth in the economy and the technical end of the recession.





Key Takeaways

Hysteresis in economics refers to an event in the economy that persists into the future, even after the factors that led to that event have been removed.Hysteresis can include the delayed effects of unemployment, whereby the unemployment rate continues to rise even after the economy has recovered.Hysteresis can indicate a permanent change in the workforce from the loss of job skills making workers less employable even after a recession has ended.


   Understanding Hysteresis  

The term hysteresis was coined by Sir James Alfred Ewing, a Scottish physicist and engineer (1855-1935), to refer to systems, organisms, and fields that have memory. In other words, the consequences of some input are experienced with a certain time lag or delay. One example is seen with iron: iron maintains some magnetization after it has been exposed to and removed from a magnetic field.﻿﻿ Hysteresis is derived from the Greek word meaning a coming short or a deficiency.



Hysteresis in economics arises when a single disturbance affects the course of the economy. The specific reasons for hysteresis vary depending on the precipitating event. That said, the persistence of a market malaise after the event has technically passed is most commonly attributed to changes in the attitudes of market participants due to the event. After a market crash, for example, many investors are reluctant to reinvest what cash they have on hand due to their recent losses. This reluctance translates to a longer period of depressed stock prices due to the attitude of investors rather than the market fundamentals.


   Types of Hysteresis  
  Hysteresis in Unemployment Rates  

A common example of hysteresis is the delayed effects of unemployment, whereby the unemployment rate can continue to rise even after the economy has begun recovering. The current unemployment rate is a percentage of the number of people in an economy who are looking for work but can't find any. In order to understand hysteresis in unemployment, we must first explore the types of unemployment. In a recession, which is two consecutive quarters of contracting growth, unemployment rises.



When a recession occurs, cyclical unemployment rises as the economy experiences negative growth rates. Cyclical unemployment rises when the economy performs poorly and falls when the economy is in expansion.



Natural unemployment is not the result of a recession. Instead, it is the result of a natural flow of workers to and from jobs. Natural unemployment explains why unemployed people exist in a growing, expansionary economy. Also called the natural rate of unemployment, natural unemployment represents people, including college graduates or those laid off because of technological advances. The constant, ever-present movement of labor in and out of employment makes up natural unemployment. However, natural unemployment can be from both voluntary and involuntary factors.



When workers are laid off due to a factory relocating or because technology replaces their job, structural unemployment exists. Structural unemployment, which is a portion of natural unemployment, occurs even when an economy is healthy and expanding. It can be due to a changing business environment or economic landscape and it can last for many years. Structural unemployment is typically due to business changes, such as factories moving overseas, technological changes, and lack of skills for new jobs.


  Why Hysteresis Occurs in Unemployment  

As stated earlier, cyclical unemployment is caused by a downturn in the business cycle. Workers lose their jobs when businesses conduct layoffs during a period characterized by low demand and declining business revenues. When the economy re-enters an expansionary phase, it is expected that businesses would start re-hiring the unemployed and that the economy’s unemployment rate would start declining towards its normal or natural unemployment rate until cyclical unemployment becomes zero. This is the ideal scenario, of course. However, hysteresis tells a different story.



Hysteresis states that as unemployment increases, more people adjust to a lower standard of living. As they become accustomed to the lower standard of living, people may not be as motivated to achieve the previously desired higher living standard. Also, as more people become unemployed, it becomes more socially acceptable to be or remain unemployed. After the labor market returns to normal, some unemployed people may be disinterested in returning to the workforce. Last, and most significantly, employers themselves have undergone significant pain during a downturn and will be more likely to demand more of remaining workers before taking on the larger costs of adding to their workforce.


  Hysteresis Due to Technology  

Hysteresis in unemployment can also be observed when businesses switch to automation during a market downturn. Workers without the skills required to operate this machinery or newly installed technology will find themselves unemployable when the economy starts recovering. In addition to hiring only tech-savvy workers, these companies will ultimately hire fewer employees than before the recessionary phase. In effect, the loss of job skills will cause a movement of workers from the cyclical unemployment stage to the structural unemployment group. A rise in structural unemployment will lead to a rise in the natural unemployment rate.






Hysteresis can indicate a permanent change in the workforce from the loss of job skills making workers less employable even after a recession has ended.


   Example of Hysteresis  

The recession experienced by the U.K. in 1981 is a good depiction of the effects of hysteresis. During the country’s recessionary period, unemployment rose sharply from 1.5 million in 1980 to 2 million in 1981. After the recession, unemployment rose to more than 3 million between 1984 and 1986.﻿﻿ The turmoil of the recession created structural unemployment that persisted during recovery and became difficult to manage.


   Special Considerations  
  How to Prevent Hysteresis  

Economies that are experiencing a recession and hysteresis, in which the natural rate of unemployment is rising, usually employ economic stimulus to combat the resulting cyclical unemployment. Expansionary monetary policies by central banks, such as the Federal Reserve, can include lowering interest rates so as to make loans cheaper and help stimulate the economy. An expansionary fiscal policy might also include increases in government spending in regions or industries that are most affected by unemployment.



However, hysteresis is more than cyclical unemployment and can persist long after the economy has recovered. For long-term issues, such as a lack of skills due to workers displaced by technological advances, job training programs might be helpful to combat hysteresis.
