What Is DAGMAR?  

DAGMAR (defining advertising goals for measured advertising results) is a marketing model used to establish clear objectives for an advertising campaign and measure its success. The DAGMAR model was introduced by Russell Colley in a 1961 report to the Association of National Advertisers and was expanded upon in 1995 by Solomon Dutka.





Key Takeaways

The DAGMAR model defines the four steps of an effective advertising campaign as causing awareness, comprehension, conviction, and action.The model stresses defining the segment of the market that the campaign seeks to reach.DAGMAR also requires an evaluation of the campaign's success against a pre-set benchmark.


   Understanding DAGMAR  

The DAGMAR approach advocates a marketing strategy that guides the consumer through four phases: awareness, comprehension, conviction, and action. That path has become known by its acronym as the ACCA formula. The four steps of the campaign are as follows:



Generating awareness of the brand among consumersIncreasing comprehension of the product and its benefitsConvincing consumers that they need the productPersuading consumers to buy it



The DAGMAR method contains two goals. The first is to develop a communication task that accomplishes those specific ACCA steps. The second is to make sure that the success of those goals can be measured against a baseline.



Colley believed that effective advertising seeks to communicate rather than sell. He specified four basic requirements for evaluating the effectiveness of an advertising campaign: 



Be concrete and measurableDefine the target audience or marketIdentify the benchmark and the degree of change expectedSpecify a period during which to accomplish the objective


   Identifying a Target Market to Implement DAGMAR  

The target market is the subset of consumers who have the highest likelihood of purchasing the product. The target market may be narrow or broad. It may be women in general or young professional single women who live in urban areas.



Identification of a target market can include demographic, geographic, and psychographic segmentation. Target markets can be separated into primary and secondary groups. Primary markets are the initial focus of a campaign and, hopefully, the first customers to buy and use the new product. Secondary markets are the larger population that may buy the product once the brand becomes established.



After identifying the target market, the company establishes the message it wants to communicate in its advertising campaign.


   DAGMAR Benchmark and Time Frame  

The DAGMAR method requires marketers to establish a benchmark in order to measure the success of a campaign. Today's businesses rarely set out to sell a product to everybody. They aim for a particular share of a market or a substantial share of a market segment.



The cosmetics industry offers a clear example. There are mass-market products available in drugstores, and high-end products, some made by the same companies, that are sold only in department stores. There are products that are branded, packaged, and promoted only for teenagers, and others for mature women.



A company introducing a new product aims at one or more of these market segments, but not all of them at once. In any case, setting a benchmark for product success helps advertisers define the market and create an effective campaign to reach it.



The time frame attempts to set a reasonable deadline for judging the success or failure of a new product's introduction.
What Is the Dark Cloud Cover?  

Dark Cloud Cover is a bearish reversal candlestick pattern where a down candle (typically black or red) opens above the close of the prior up candle (typically white or green), and then closes below the midpoint of the up candle.



The pattern is significant as it shows a shift in the momentum from the upside to the downside. The pattern is created by an up candle followed by a down candle. Traders look for the price to continue lower on the next (third) candle. This is called confirmation.





Key Takeaways

Dark Cloud Cover is a candlestick pattern that shows a shift in momentum to the downside following a price rise.The pattern is composed of a bearish candle that opens above but then closes below the midpoint of the prior bullish candle. Both candles should be relatively large, showing strong participation by traders and investors. When the pattern occurs with small candles it is typically less significant.Traders typically see if the candle following the bearish candle also shows declining prices. A further price decline following the bearish candle is called confirmation.


   Understanding Dark Cloud Cover  

The Dark Cloud Cover pattern involves a large black candle forming a "dark cloud" over the preceding up candle. As with a bearish engulfing pattern, buyers push the price higher at the open, but sellers take over later in the session and push the price sharply lower. This shift from buying to selling indicates that a price reversal to the downside could be forthcoming.



Most traders consider the Dark Cloud Cover pattern useful only if it occurs following an uptrend or an overall rise in price. As prices rise, the pattern becomes more important for marking a potential move to the downside. If the price action is choppy the pattern is less significant since the price is likely to remain choppy after the pattern.



The five criteria for the Dark Cloud Cover pattern are:



An existing bullish uptrend.
An up (bullish) candle within that uptrend.
A gap up on the following day.
The gap up turns into a down (bearish) candle.
The bearish candle closes below the midpoint of the previous bullish candle.



The Dark Cloud Cover pattern is further characterized by white and black candlesticks that have long real bodies and relatively short or non-existent shadows. These attributes suggest that the move lower was both highly decisive and significant in terms of price movement. Traders might also look for a confirmation in the form of a bearish candle following the pattern. The price is expected to decline following the Dark Cloud Cover, so if it doesn't that indicates the pattern may fail.



The close of the bearish candle may be used to exit long positions. Alternatively, traders may exit the following day if the price continues to decline (pattern confirmed). If entering short on the close of the bearish candle, or the next period, a stop loss can be placed above the high of the bearish candle.



There is no profit target for a Dark Cloud Cover pattern. Traders utilize other methods or candlestick patterns for determining when to exit a short trade based on Dark Cloud Cover.



Traders may use the Dark Cloud Cover pattern in conjunction with other forms of technical analysis. For example, traders might look for a relative strength index (RSI) greater than 70, which provides a confirmation that the security is overbought. A trader may also look for a breakdown from a key support level following a Dark Cloud Cover pattern as a signal that a downtrend may be forthcoming.


   Example of Dark Cloud Cover  

The following chart shows an example of the Dark Cloud Cover pattern in the VelocityShares Daily 2X VIX Short Term ETN (TVIX):















Dark Cloud Cover Pattern.
 StockCharts.com



In this example, the Dark Cloud Cover occurs when the third bullish candle is followed by a bearish candle that opens higher and closes below the midpoint of the last bullish candle. The pattern successfully predicted a downturn in the following session where the price moved nearly seven percent lower. That session provided confirmation.



Traders who were long could consider exiting near the close of the bearish candle or on the following day (confirmation day) when the price continued dropping. Traders could also enter short positions at these junctures as well.



If entering short, the initial stop loss could be placed above the high of the bearish candle. Following the confirmation day, the stop loss could be dropped to just above the confirmation day high in this case. Traders would then establish a downside profit target, or continue to trail their stop loss down if the price continues to fall.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Dark Pool?  

A dark pool is a privately organized financial forum or exchange for trading securities. Dark pools allow institutional investors to trade without exposure until after the trade has been executed and reported. Dark pools are a type of alternative trading system (ATS) that gives certain investors the opportunity to place large orders and make trades without publicly revealing their intentions during the search for a buyer or seller.





Key Takeaways

Dark pools are private asset exchanges designed to provide additional liquidity and anonymity for trading large blocks of securities away from the public eye.Dark pools provide pricing and cost advantages to buy-side institutions such as mutual funds, and pension funds, which claim that these benefits ultimately accrue to the retail investors who invest in these funds. However, dark pools’ lack of transparency makes them susceptible to conflicts of interest by their owners and predatory trading practices by HFT firms.






   Understanding the Dark Pool  

Dark pools emerged in the 1980s when the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) allowed brokers to transact large blocks of shares. Electronic trading and an SEC ruling in 2005 that was designed to increase competition and cut transaction costs have stimulated an increase in the number of dark pools. Dark pools can charge lower fees than exchanges because they are often housed within a large firm and not necessarily a bank.



For example, Bloomberg LP owns the dark pool Bloomberg Tradebook, which is registered with the SEC. Dark pools were initially mostly used by institutional investors for block trades involving a large number of securities. However, dark pools are no longer used only for large orders. A 2013 report by Celent found that as a result of block orders moving to dark pools, the average order size dropped about 50%, from 430 shares in 2009 to approximately 200 shares in four years.



The primary advantage of dark pool trading is that institutional investors making large trades can do so without exposure while finding buyers and sellers. This prevents heavy price devaluation, which would otherwise occur. If it were public knowledge, for example, that an investment bank was trying to sell 500,000 shares of a security, the security would almost certainly have decreased in value by the time the bank found buyers for all of their shares. Devaluation has become an increasingly likely risk, and electronic trading platforms are causing prices to respond much more quickly to market pressures. If the new data is reported only after the trade has been executed, however, the news has much less of an impact on the market.


   Dark Pools and High-Frequency Trading  

With the advent of supercomputers capable of executing algorithmic-based programs over the course of just milliseconds, high-frequency trading (HFT) has come to dominate daily trading volume. HFT technology allows institutional traders to execute their orders of multimillion-share blocks ahead of other investors, capitalizing on fractional upticks or downticks in share prices. When subsequent orders are executed, profits are instantly obtained by HFT traders who then close out their positions. This form of legal piracy can occur dozens of times a day, reaping huge gains for HFT traders.



Eventually, HFT became so pervasive that it grew increasingly difficult to execute large trades through a single exchange. Because large HFT orders had to be spread among multiple exchanges, it alerted trading competitors who could then get in front of the order and snatch up the inventory, driving up share prices. All of this occurred within milliseconds of the initial order being placed.



To avoid the transparency of public exchanges and ensure liquidity for large block trades, several of the investment banks established private exchanges, which came to be known as dark pools. For traders with large orders who are unable to place them on the public exchanges, or want to avoid telegraphing their intent, dark pools provide a market of buyers and sellers with the liquidity to execute the trade. As of Feb. 28, 2022, there were 64 dark pools operating in the United States, run mostly by investment banks.


   Critiques of Dark Pools  

Although considered legal, dark pools are able to operate with little transparency. Those who have denounced HFT as an unfair advantage over other investors have also condemned the lack of transparency in dark pools, which can hide conflicts of interest. Due to complaints, the SEC conducted research and presented their 2015 report, scrutinizing dark pools for illegal front-running when institutional traders place their order in front of a customer’s order to capitalize on the uptick in share prices. Advocates of dark pools insist they provide essential liquidity, allowing the markets to operate more efficiently.


   Examples of Dark Pools  

There are several different types of dark pools: broker or dealer-owned exchanges, such as Morgan Stanley's MS Pool and Goldman Sachs' Sigma X; independently owned exchanges offering private trading to their clients; and private exchange markets operated by public exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange's Euronext. A privately-owned market will have price discovery within their own markets, but a dark pool operated by a broker derives its prices from public exchanges.



Because of their sinister name and lack of transparency, dark pools are often considered by the public to be dubious enterprises. In reality, dark pools are tightly regulated by the SEC. However, there is a real concern that because of the sheer volume of trades conducted on dark markets, the public values of certain securities are increasingly unreliable or inaccurate. There is also mounting concern that dark pool exchanges provide excellent fodder for predatory high-frequency trading.
What Is the Dark Web?  

The term dark web refers to encrypted online content that is not indexed by conventional search engines. Accessing the dark web can only be done using specific browsers, such as TOR Browser. There is a great deal of privacy and anonymity that comes with using the dark web compared to traditional websites.



As such, most of the attention is placed on online marketplaces for drugs, exchanges for stolen data, and other illegal activities when people think of the dark web. Despite this, there are often very legitimate reasons why people choose to use the dark web, including political dissidents and people who want to keep certain information private.





Key Takeaways

The dark web refers to encrypted online content that is not indexed by conventional search engines.Specific browsers, such as Tor Browser, are required to reach the dark web.The dark web pulls up sites using information that isn't indexed online, such as bank accounts, email accounts, and databases.People who use the dark web can maintain their privacy and freely express their views.It also has a reputation for being associated with illicit and unethical activities.


   Understanding the Dark Web  

As its name implies, the dark web is a secret network that exists underground. It's made up of a series of websites that are hidden from the general public. This means they aren't accessible through traditional search engines, such as Google.



Traditional search engines return results because they contain indexes of links to websites. These are ranked based on keywords and relevancy. The dark web, on the other hand, uses information that isn't available on these other search engines, such as content from individual accounts, such as email, social media, banking, along with personal and professional databases, and documents (legal and medical).



Also called the darknet, the dark web is much like the broader web was in its early days during the late 20th century. There is a lot of material about getting it working, and not very much to do once one gets there. A lot of the content on the dark web is very amateurish. On the other hand, it is much easier for individuals to start sites and get attention. Tech giants and large media organizations have very little influence on the dark web.



As with the early internet, the dark web has a reputation as a haven for illegal activities and is frequently implicated in illicit and criminal activity. While the dark web has played a hand in illegal and unethical transactions, it also provides a social outlet for people who may otherwise be persecuted for their identities or political beliefs. It also gives legal authorities the additional tools they need to apprehend the perpetrators of unethical activities.






The dark web is still very much a work in progress, and its full costs and benefits are not yet known.


   Special Considerations  

People often confuse the dark web with cryptocurrencies, which are often used to make purchases there. But there is a distinct difference. The dark web makes it easier to set up and access websites that offer a high degree of anonymity for everyone involved.



Many dark web websites contain only information rather than the ability to buy or sell something. It is true, though, that cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin and Monero, are often used for transactions on the dark web. But one does not have to use the dark web to use cryptocurrencies.


   History of the Dark Web  

The dark web first officially appeared in the early 2000s along with the creation of Freenet, which was developed by Ian Clarke to secure users against government intervention and cyber attacks. The system, which is still available today, allows users to express themselves freely without being tracked online.



The U.S. Naval Research Laboratory funded a project called The Onion Router (TOR). TOR offered intelligence sources a way to communicate easily and safely, especially in hostile areas where personal safety is key. It is now one of the most common browsers used to access the dark web, using databases to help people make their way around and find the information they need.



The rise of cryptocurrencies increased the popularity of the dark web, especially for cybercriminals. That's because digital currencies often provide a great deal of anonymity for people who buy and sell on the dark web.



Because of its association with certain illicit activities, there have been calls for regulation of the dark web. For instance, the G20 and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) have both called for cryptocurrency companies to provide information on buyers and sellers in transactions conducted online. This is especially true, they say, to help law enforcement track criminal organizations and illicit activities.






Ross Ulbricht was investigated and arrested in 2013 for creating and running the dark web site The Silk Road, a darknet website authorities said was used to buy and sell narcotics.


   Dark Web vs. Deep Web  

The dark web and the deep web are also often erroneously used interchangeably. The dark web is, in fact, just one part of the deep web. The deep web is what lies underground and isn't just the content that is considered dark. That's why it's also called the invisible web or the hidden web.



The information found on the deep web is normally encrypted and isn't found on indexes the way it is on the traditional web. It includes all of the pages that don’t pop up when you run a web search. It also contains everything that requires a login, such as content from:



Online banking
Pay websites, such as Netflix and Amazon Prime
File hosting services, such as Dropbox and its competitors
Private databases



The information listed on the dark web can also include anything on subscriber-only databases rather than anything illegal.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Dark Web  
  Advantages  

The dark web helps people to maintain privacy and freely express their views. Privacy is essential for many innocent people terrorized by stalkers and other criminals. The increasing tendency of potential employers to track posts on social media can also make it difficult to engage in honest discussions publicly.



Finally, the popularity of the dark web with criminals makes it a perfect way for undercover police officers to communicate.


  Disadvantages  

Some people will inevitably abuse the power associated with using the dark web by making it easier to engage in criminal activity. For example, the combination of the dark web and cryptocurrencies theoretically makes it much easier to hire someone to commit certain crimes.



While the dark web promises privacy to its users, it can also be used to violate the privacy of others. Private photos, medical records, and financial information have all been stolen and shared on the dark web.





Pros

Ensures privacy and freedom of expression
Allows law enforcement to identify criminal organizations



Cons

Makes it easier to engage in criminal activity
Can be used to violate the privacy of others





   Example of the Dark Web  

Let's say you want to go on the dark web to see what information of yours, if any, is floating around. You can install the TOR browser on your system by using a virtual private network. A VPN allows people to use a public network as if they were transmitting information on a private one. It basically gives you privacy on a public network.



As you surf, you'll probably notice that dark website addresses end with the .onion extension rather than the traditional .com, .org, .edu, etc. One word of warning, though. Make sure you have some security software installed because there's a good chance that you may come in contact with malware and phishing scams.




Is It Illegal to Access the Dark Web?
Despite what the name implies, it isn't illegal to access the dark web. It actually provides individuals with privacy and anonymity that traditional websites don't offer to individuals. For instance, people can go on the dark web and post their thoughts about political activity without any fear of being reprimanded by government officials and other groups.




How Do You Get on the Dark Web?
You can access the dark web by installing specific, anonymous browsers, such as TOR. Once installed, the browser works the same way traditional ones do. But it can be a little difficult to access information because it doesn't use an index to locate the desired information. Make sure that you install security software to make sure your computer and personal information are ketp safe.




How Do You Find Out If Your Information Is on the Dark Web?
Your personal information, such as banking, social media, and email accounts, along with your Social Security number, may be up for sale on the dark web. If you want to see if any of your information is floating around the dark web, try running a scan of the dark web. Alternatively, you can sign up for a dark web monitoring service. These tools warn you whenever they find any of your information.




What Do You Do If Your Information Is on the Dark Web?
You can take a number of steps to help protect your information. Make sure you change all your passwords, check your credit reports for any discrepancies, and inform your bank(s). You can also put a freeze on your credit to prevent it from being compromised any further.


   The Bottom Line  

The dark web is a relatively new concept, at least when you consider the history of the internet as a whole. You can use it to remain anonymous without fear of repercussion if you want to express yourself freely. But this amount of privacy has helped it gain a bad reputation as a forum for those who want to use it for illicit activities. If you're looking to use the dark web, it's as simple as installing a private browser, using a VPN, and making sure your computer remains safe and secure.
What Is Darvas Box Theory?  

Darvas box theory is a trading strategy developed by Nicolas Darvas that targets stocks using highs and volume as key indicators.



Darvas' trading technique involves buying into stocks that are trading at new highs and drawing a box around the recent highs and lows to establish an entry point and placement of the stop-loss order. A stock is considered to be in a Darvas box when the price action rises above the previous high but falls back to a price not far from that high.





Key Takeaways

Darvas box theory is a technical tool that allows traders to target stocks with increasing trade volume.The Darvas box theory is not locked into a specific time period, so the boxes are created by drawing a line along the recent highs and recent lows of the time period the trader is using.The Darvas box theory works best in a rising market and/or by targeting bullish sectors.


   What Does Darvas Box Theory Tell You?  

The Darvas box theory is a type of momentum strategy. It uses market momentum theory along with technical analysis to determine when to enter and exit the market.



Darvas boxes are a fairly simple indicator created by drawing a line along lows and highs. As you update the highs and lows over time, you will see rising boxes or falling boxes. Darvas box theory suggests only trading rising boxes and using the highs of the boxes that are breached to update the stop-loss orders.



Despite being a largely technical strategy, Darvas box theory as originally conceived did mix in some fundamental analysis to determine what stocks to target. Darvas believed his method worked best when applied to industries with the greatest potential to excite investors and consumers with revolutionary products. He also preferred companies that had shown strong earnings over time, particularly if the market overall was choppy.















Darvas Box.


   The Darvas Box Theory in Practice  

The Darvas box theory encourages traders to focus on growth industries, meaning industries that investors expect to outperform the overall market. When developing the system, Darvas selected a few stocks from these industries and monitored their prices and trading every day. While monitoring these stocks, Darvas used volume as the main indication as to whether a stock was ready to make a strong move.



Once Darvas noticed an unusual volume, he created a Darvas box with a narrow price range based on the recent highs and lows of the trading sessions. Inside the box, the stock’s low for the given time period represents the floor and the highs create the ceiling.



When the stock broke through the ceiling of the current box, Darvas would buy the stock and use the ceiling of the breached box as the stop-loss for the position. As more boxes were breached, Darvas would add to the trade and move the stop-loss order up. The trade would generally end when the stop-loss order was triggered.






Darvas developed his theory in the 1950s while traveling the world as a professional ballroom dancer.


   The Origin of Darvas Box Theory  

Nicolas Darvas fled his native Hungary ahead of the Nazis in the 1930s. Eventually, he reunited with his sister, and soon after, following World War II, they began dancing professionally in Europe. By the late 1950s, Nicolas Darvas was one half of the highest-paid dance team in show business. He was in the middle of a world tour, dancing before sold-out crowds.



While traveling as a dancer, Darvas obtained copies of The Wall Street Journal and Barron's, but only used the listed stock prices to determine his investments. By drawing boxes and following strict trading rules, Darvas turned a $10,000 investment into $2 million over an 18-month period. His success led him to write How I Made $2,000,000 in the Stock Market in 1960, popularizing the Darvas box theory.



Today, there are variations to the Darvas box theory that focus on different time periods to establish the boxes or simply integrate other technical tools that follow similar principles such as support and resistance bands. Darvas' initial strategy was created at a time when information flow was much slower and there was no such thing as real-time charting. Despite that, the theory is such that trades can be identified and entry and exit points set applying the boxes to the chart even now.


   Limitations of the Darvas Box Theory  

Critics of the Darvas box theory technique attribute Darvas’ initial success to the fact that he traded in a very bullish market, and assert that his results cannot be attained if using this technique in a bear market. It is fair to say that following the Darvas box theory will produce small losses overall when the trend doesn't develop as planned.



The use of a trailing stop-loss order and following the trend/momentum as it develops has become a staple of many technical strategies developed since Darvas. As with many trading theories, the true value in the Darvas box theory may actually be the discipline it develops in traders when it comes to controlling risk and following a plan. Darvas emphasized the importance of logging trades in his book and later dissecting what went right and wrong.
What Is Data Analytics?  

Data analytics is the science of analyzing raw data to make conclusions about information. Many of the techniques and processes of data analytics have been automated into mechanical processes and algorithms that work over raw data for human consumption.





Key Takeaways

Data analytics is the science of analyzing raw data to make conclusions about that information.Data analytics help a business optimize its performance, perform more efficiently, maximize profit, or make more strategically-guided decisions.The techniques and processes of data analytics have been automated into mechanical processes and algorithms that work over raw data for human consumption. Various approaches to data analytics include looking at what happened (descriptive analytics), why something happened (diagnostic analytics), what is going to happen (predictive analytics), or what should be done next (prescriptive analytics).Data analytics relies on a variety of software tools including spreadsheets, data visualization, reporting tools, data mining programs, and open-source languages for the greatest data manipulation.


   Understanding Data Analytics  

Data analytics is a broad term that encompasses many diverse types of data analysis. Any type of information can be subjected to data analytics techniques to get insight that can be used to improve things. Data analytics techniques can reveal trends and metrics that would otherwise be lost in the mass of information. This information can then be used to optimize processes to increase the overall efficiency of a business or system.



For example, manufacturing companies often record the runtime, downtime, and work queue for various machines and then analyze the data to better plan workloads so the machines operate closer to peak capacity.



Data analytics can do much more than point out bottlenecks in production. Gaming companies use data analytics to set reward schedules for players that keep the majority of players active in the game. Content companies use many of the same data analytics to keep you clicking, watching, or re-organizing content to get another view or another click.



Data analytics is important because it helps businesses optimize their performances. Implementing it into the business model means companies can help reduce costs by identifying more efficient ways of doing business and by storing large amounts of data.






A company can also use data analytics to make better business decisions and help analyze customer trends and satisfaction, which can lead to new and better products and services. 


   Data Analysis Steps  

The process involved in data analysis involves several steps:



The first step is to determine the data requirements or how the data is grouped. Data may be separated by age, demographic, income, or gender. Data values may be numerical or divided by category.The second step in data analytics is the process of collecting it. This can be done through a variety of sources such as computers, online sources, cameras, environmental sources, or through personnel.The data must be organized after it's collected so it can be analyzed. This may take place on a spreadsheet or other form of software that can take statistical data.The data is then cleaned up before analysis. It's scrubbed and checked to ensure that there's no duplication or error and that it is not incomplete. This step helps correct any errors before it goes on to a data analyst to be analyzed.


   Types of Data Analytics  

Data analytics is broken down into four basic types:



Descriptive analytics: This describes what has happened over a given period of time. Have the number of views gone up? Are sales stronger this month than last?Diagnostic analytics: This focuses more on why something happened. It involves more diverse data inputs and a bit of hypothesizing. Did the weather affect beer sales? Did that latest marketing campaign impact sales?Predictive analytics: This moves to what is likely going to happen in the near term. What happened to sales the last time we had a hot summer? How many weather models predict a hot summer this year?Prescriptive analytics: This suggests a course of action. We should add an evening shift to the brewery and rent an additional tank to increase output if the likelihood of a hot summer is measured as an average of these five weather models and the average is above 58%,



Data analytics underpins many quality control systems in the financial world, including the ever-popular Six Sigma program. It's nearly impossible to optimize something if you aren’t properly measuring it, whether it's your weight or the number of defects per million in a production line.



The sectors that have adopted the use of data analytics include the travel and hospitality industry where turnarounds can be quick. This industry can collect customer data and figure out where problems, if any, lie and how to fix them.



Healthcare combines the use of high volumes of structured and unstructured data and uses data analytics to make quick decisions. Similarly, the retail industry uses copious amounts of data to meet the ever-changing demands of shoppers. The information that retailers collect and analyze can help them identify trends, recommend products, and increase profits. 






The average total pay for a data analyst in the United States was just over $80,000 in August 2023.


   Data Analytics Techniques  

Data analysts can use several analytical methods and techniques to process data and extract information. Some of the most popular methods include:



Regression analysis entails analyzing the relationship between dependent variables to determine how a change in one may affect the change in another.
Factor analysis entails taking a large data set and shrinking it into a smaller data set. The goal of this maneuver is to attempt to discover hidden trends that would otherwise have been more difficult to see.
Cohort analysis is the process of breaking a data set into groups of similar data, often into a customer demographic. This allows data analysts and other users of data analytics to further dive into the numbers relating to a specific subset of data.
Monte Carlo simulations model the probability of different outcomes happening. They're often used for risk mitigation and loss prevention. These simulations incorporate multiple values and variables and often have greater forecasting capabilities than other data analytics approaches.
Time series analysis tracks data over time and solidifies the relationship between the value of a data point and the occurrence of the data point. This data analysis technique is usually used to spot cyclical trends or to project financial forecasts.


   Data Analytics Tools  

Data analytics has rapidly evolved in technological capabilities in addition to a broad range of mathematical and statistical approaches to crunching numbers. Data analysts have a broad range of software tools to help acquire data, store information, process data, and report findings.



Data analytics has always had loose ties to spreadsheets and Microsoft Excel. Data analysts also often interact with raw programming languages to transform and manipulate databases.



Data analysts also have help when reporting or communicating findings. Both Tableau and Power BI are data visualization and analysis tools used to compile information, perform data analytics, and distribute results via dashboards and reports.



Other tools are also emerging to assist data analysts. SAS is an analytics platform that can assist with data mining. Apache Spark is an open-source platform useful for processing large sets of data. Data analysts have a broad range of technological capabilities to further enhance the value they deliver to their company.


   The Role of Data Analytics  

Data analytics can enhance operations, efficiency, and performance in numerous industries by shining a spotlight on patterns. Implementing these techniques can give companies and businesses a competitive edge. The process includes four basic steps of analysis.


  Data Mining  

As the name suggests, this step involves “mining” or gathering data and information from across a broad spectrum of sources. Various forms of information are then recreated into the same format so they can eventually be analyzed. The process can take a good bit of time, more than any other step.


  Data Management  

Data requires a database to contain, manage, and provide access to the information gathered through mining. The next step in data analytics is therefore the creation of such a database to manage the information. SQL was a common tool used for this purpose in the early days of data analytics and it's still widely used in 2023. Created in 1979, this computing language allows relational databases to be queried and the resulting data sets to be more easily analyzed.


  Statistical Analysis  

The third step is statistical analysis. It involves the interpretation of the gathered and stored data into models that will hopefully reveal trends that can be used to interpret future data. This is achieved through open-source programming languages such as Python. More specific tools for data analytics, like R, can be used for statistical analysis or graphical modeling.


  Data Presentation  

The results of the data analytics process are meant to be shared. The final step is formatting the data so it’s accessible to and understandable by others, particularly those individuals within a company who are responsible for growth, analysis, efficiency, and operations. Having access can be beneficial to shareholders as well.  


   Importance and Uses of Data Analytics  

Data analytics provide a critical component of a business’s probability of success. Gathering, sorting, analyzing, and presenting information can significantly enhance and benefit society, particularly in fields such as healthcare and crime prevention. But the uses of data analytics can be equally beneficial for small enterprises and startups that are looking for an edge over the business next door, albeit on a smaller scale,




Why Is Data Analytics Important?
Implementing data analytics into the business model means companies can help reduce costs by identifying more efficient ways of doing business. A company can also use data analytics to make better business decisions.




What Are the 4 Types of Data Analytics?
Data analytics is broken down into four basic types. Descriptive analytics describes what has happened over a given period. Diagnostic analytics focuses more on why something happened. Predictive analytics moves to what is likely going to happen in the near term. Finally, prescriptive analytics suggests a course of action.




Who Is Using Data Analytics?
Data analytics has been adopted by several sectors where turnarounds can be quick, such as the travel and hospitality industry. Healthcare is another sector that combines the use of high volumes of structured and unstructured data, and data analytics can help in making quick decisions. The retail industry also uses large amounts of data to meet the ever-changing demands of shoppers.


   The Bottom Line  

Data analytics helps individuals and organizations make sure of their data in a world that's increasingly becoming reliant on information and gathering statistics. A set of raw numbers can be transformed using a variety of tools and techniques, resulting in informative, educational insights that drive decision-making and thoughtful management.
What Is Data Mining?  

Data mining is the process of searching and analyzing a large batch of raw data in order to identify patterns and extract useful information.



Companies use data mining software to learn more about their customers. It can help them to develop more effective marketing strategies, increase sales, and decrease costs. Data mining relies on effective data collection, warehousing, and computer processing.





Key Takeaways

Data mining is the process of analyzing a large batch of information to discern trends and patterns.Data mining can be used by corporations for everything from learning about what customers are interested in or want to buy to fraud detection and spam filtering.Data mining programs break down patterns and connections in data based on what information users request or provide.Social media companies use data mining techniques to commodify their users in order to generate profit.This use of data mining has come under criticism lately as users are often unaware of the data mining happening with their personal information, especially when it is used to influence preferences.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   How Data Mining Works  

Data mining involves exploring and analyzing large blocks of information to glean meaningful patterns and trends. It is used in credit risk management, fraud detection, and spam filtering. It also is a market research tool that helps reveal the sentiment or opinions of a given group of people. The data mining process breaks down into four steps:



Data is collected and loaded into data warehouses on-site or on a cloud service.Business analysts, management teams, and information technology professionals access the data and determine how they want to organize it. Custom application software sorts and organizes the data.The end user presents the data in an easy-to-share format, such as a graph or table.


   Data Warehousing and Mining Software  

Data mining programs analyze relationships and patterns in data based on user requests. It organizes information into classes.



For example, a restaurant may want to use data mining to determine which specials it should offer and on what days. The data can be organized into classes based on when customers visit and what they order.



In other cases, data miners find clusters of information based on logical relationships or look at associations and sequential patterns to draw conclusions about trends in consumer behavior.



Warehousing is an important aspect of data mining. Warehousing is the centralization of an organization's data into one database or program. It allows the organization to spin off segments of data for specific users to analyze and use depending on their needs.






Cloud data warehouse solutions use the space and power of a cloud provider to store data. This allows smaller companies to leverage digital solutions for storage, security, and analytics.


   Data Mining Techniques  

Data mining uses algorithms and various other techniques to convert large collections of data into useful output. The most popular types of data mining techniques include:



Association rules, also referred to as market basket analysis, search for relationships between variables. This relationship in itself creates additional value within the data set as it strives to link pieces of data. For example, association rules would search a company's sales history to see which products are most commonly purchased together; with this information, stores can plan, promote, and forecast.
Classification uses predefined classes to assign to objects. These classes describe the characteristics of items or represent what the data points have in common with each. This data mining technique allows the underlying data to be more neatly categorized and summarized across similar features or product lines.
Clustering is similar to classification. However, clustering identifies similarities between objects, then groups those items based on what makes them different from other items. While classification may result in groups such as "shampoo," "conditioner," "soap," and "toothpaste," clustering may identify groups such as "hair care" and "dental health."
Decision trees are used to classify or predict an outcome based on a set list of criteria or decisions. A decision tree is used to ask for the input of a series of cascading questions that sort the dataset based on the responses given. Sometimes depicted as a tree-like visual, a decision tree allows for specific direction and user input when drilling deeper into the data.
K-Nearest neighbor (KNN) is an algorithm that classifies data based on its proximity to other data. The basis for KNN is rooted in the assumption that data points that are close to each other are more similar to each other than other bits of data. This non-parametric, supervised technique is used to predict the features of a group based on individual data points.
Neural networks process data through the use of nodes. These nodes are comprised of inputs, weights, and an output. Data is mapped through supervised learning, similar to the ways in which the human brain is interconnected. This model can be programmed to give threshold values to determine a model's accuracy.
Predictive analysis strives to leverage historical information to build graphical or mathematical models to forecast future outcomes. Overlapping with regression analysis, this technique aims at supporting an unknown figure in the future based on current data on hand.


   The Data Mining Process  

To be most effective, data analysts generally follow a certain flow of tasks along the data mining process. Without this structure, an analyst may encounter an issue in the middle of their analysis that could have easily been prevented had they prepared for it earlier. The data mining process is usually broken into the following steps.


  Step 1: Understand the Business  

Before any data is touched, extracted, cleaned, or analyzed, it is important to understand the underlying entity and the project at hand. What are the goals the company is trying to achieve by mining data? What is their current business situation? What are the findings of a SWOT analysis? Before looking at any data, the mining process starts by understanding what will define success at the end of the process.


  Step 2: Understand the Data  

Once the business problem has been clearly defined, it's time to start thinking about data. This includes what sources are available, how they will be secured and stored, how the information will be gathered, and what the final outcome or analysis may look like. This step also includes determining the limits of the data, storage, security, and collection and assesses how these constraints will affect the data mining process.


  Step 3: Prepare the Data  

Data is gathered, uploaded, extracted, or calculated. It is then cleaned, standardized, scrubbed for outliers, assessed for mistakes, and checked for reasonableness. During this stage of data mining, the data may also be checked for size as an oversized collection of information may unnecessarily slow computations and analysis.


  Step 4: Build the Model  

With our clean data set in hand, it's time to crunch the numbers. Data scientists use the types of data mining above to search for relationships, trends, associations, or sequential patterns. The data may also be fed into predictive models to assess how previous bits of information may translate into future outcomes.


  Step 5: Evaluate the Results  

The data-centered aspect of data mining concludes by assessing the findings of the data model or models. The outcomes from the analysis may be aggregated, interpreted, and presented to decision-makers that have largely been excluded from the data mining process to this point. In this step, organizations can choose to make decisions based on the findings.


  Step 6: Implement Change and Monitor  

The data mining process concludes with management taking steps in response to the findings of the analysis. The company may decide the information was not strong enough or the findings were not relevant, or the company may strategically pivot based on findings. In either case, management reviews the ultimate impacts of the business and recreates future data mining loops by identifying new business problems or opportunities.






Different data mining processing models will have different steps, though the general process is usually pretty similar. For example, the Knowledge Discovery Databases model has nine steps, the CRISP-DM model has six steps, and the SEMMA process model has five steps.


   Applications of Data Mining  

In today's age of information, almost any department, industry, sector, or company can make use of data mining.


  Sales  

Data mining encourages smarter, more efficient use of capital to drive revenue growth. Consider the point-of-sale register at your favorite local coffee shop. For every sale, that coffeehouse collects the time a purchase was made and what products were sold. Using this information, the shop can strategically craft its product line.


  Marketing  

Once the coffeehouse above knows its ideal line-up, it's time to implement the changes. However, to make its marketing efforts more effective, the store can use data mining to understand where its clients see ads, what demographics to target, where to place digital ads, and what marketing strategies most resonate with customers. This includes aligning marketing campaigns, promotional offers, cross-sell offers, and programs to the findings of data mining.


  Manufacturing  

For companies that produce their own goods, data mining plays an integral part in analyzing how much each raw material costs, what materials are being used most efficiently, how time is spent along the manufacturing process, and what bottlenecks negatively impact the process. Data mining helps ensure the flow of goods is uninterrupted.


  Fraud Detection  

The heart of data mining is finding patterns, trends, and correlations that link data points together. Therefore, a company can use data mining to identify outliers or correlations that should not exist. For example, a company may analyze its cash flow and find a reoccurring transaction to an unknown account. If this is unexpected, the company may wish to investigate whether funds are being mismanaged.


  Human Resources  

Human resources departments often have a wide range of data available for processing including data on retention, promotions, salary ranges, company benefits, use of those benefits, and employee satisfaction surveys. Data mining can correlate this data to get a better understanding of why employees leave and what entices new hires.


  Customer Service  

Customer satisfaction may be caused (or destroyed) for a variety of reasons. Imagine a company that ships goods. A customer may be dissatisfied with shipping times, shipping quality, or communications. The same customer may be frustrated with long telephone wait times or slow e-mail responses. Data mining gathers operational information about customer interactions and summarizes the findings to pinpoint weak points and highlight what the company is doing right.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Data Mining  



Pros of Data Mining

It drives profitability and efficiency
It can be applied to any type of data and business problem
It can reveal hidden information and trends



Cons of Data Mining

Complexity
Results and benefits are not guaranteed
It can be expensive





  Pros Explained  

Data mining ensures a company is collecting and analyzing reliable data. It is often a more rigid, structured process that formally identifies a problem, gathers data related to the problem, and strives to formulate a solution. Therefore, data mining helps a business become more profitable, more efficient, or operationally stronger.
Data mining can look very different across applications, but the overall process can be used with almost any new or legacy application. Essentially any type of data can be gathered and analyzed, and almost every business problem that relies on qualifiable evidence can be tackled using data mining.
The end goal of data mining is to take raw bits of information and determine if there is cohesion or correlation among the data. This benefit of data mining allows a company to create value with the information they have on hand that would otherwise not be overly apparent. Though data models can be complex, they can also yield fascinating results, unearth hidden trends, and suggest unique strategies.


  Cons Explained  

This complexity of data mining is one of its greatest disadvantages. Data analytics often requires technical skill sets and certain software tools. Smaller companies may find this to be a barrier of entry too difficult to overcome.
Data mining doesn't always guarantee results. A company may perform statistical analysis, make conclusions based on strong data, implement changes, and not reap any benefits. Through inaccurate findings, market changes, model errors, or inappropriate data populations, data mining can only guide decisions and not ensure outcomes.
There is also a cost component to data mining. Data tools may require costly subscriptions, and some bits of data may be expensive to obtain. Security and privacy concerns can be pacified, though additional IT infrastructure may be costly as well. Data mining may also be most effective when using huge data sets; however, these data sets must be stored and require heavy computational power to analyze.






Even large companies or government agencies have challenges with data mining. Consider the FDA's white paper on data mining that outlines the challenges of bad information, duplicate data, underreporting, or overreporting.


   Data Mining and Social Media  

One of the most lucrative applications of data mining has been undertaken by social media companies. Platforms like Facebook, TikTok, Instagram, and X platform (formerly Twitter) gather reams of data about their users, based on their online activities.



That data can be used to make inferences about their preferences. Advertisers can target their messages to the people who appear to be most likely to respond positively.



Data mining on social media has become a big point of contention, with several investigative reports and exposes showing just how intrusive mining users' data can be. At the heart of the issue, users may agree to the terms and conditions of the sites not realizing how their personal information is being collected or to whom their information is being sold.


   Examples of Data Mining  

Data mining can be used for good, or it can be used illicitly. Here is an example of both.


  eBay and e-Commerce  

eBay collects countless bits of information every day from sellers and buyers. The company uses data mining to attribute relationships between products, assess desired price ranges, analyze prior purchase patterns, and form product categories.



eBay outlines the recommendation process as:



Raw item metadata and user historical data are aggregated.Scrips are run on a trained model to generate and predict the item and user.A KNN search is performed.The results are written to a database.The real-time recommendation takes the user ID, calls the database results, and displays them to the user.


  Facebook-Cambridge Analytica Scandal  

Another cautionary example of data mining is the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal. During the 2010s, the British consulting firm Cambridge Analytica Ltd. collected personal data from millions of Facebook users. This information was later analyzed for use in the 2016 presidential campaigns of Ted Cruz and Donald Trump. It is suspected that Cambridge Analytica interfered with other notable events such as the Brexit referendum.



In light of this inappropriate data mining and misuse of user data, Facebook agreed to pay $100 million for misleading investors about its uses of consumer data. The Securities and Exchange Commission claimed Facebook discovered the misuse in 2015 but did not correct its disclosures for more than two years.




What Are the Types of Data Mining?
There are two main types of data mining: predictive data mining and descriptive data mining. Predictive data mining extracts data that may be helpful in determining an outcome. Description data mining informs users of a given outcome.




How Is Data Mining Done?
Data mining relies on big data and advanced computing processes including machine learning and other forms of artificial intelligence (AI). The goal is to find patterns that can lead to inferences or predictions from large and unstructured data sets.




What Is Another Term for Data Mining?
Data mining also goes by the less-used term "knowledge discovery in data," or KDD.




Where Is Data Mining Used?
Data mining applications have been designed to take on just about any endeavor that relies on big data. Companies in the financial sector look for patterns in the markets. Governments try to identify potential security threats. Corporations, especially online and social media companies, use data mining to create profitable advertising and marketing campaigns that target specific sets of users.


   The Bottom Line  

Modern businesses have the ability to gather information on their customers, products, manufacturing lines, employees, and storefronts. These random pieces of information may not tell a story, but the use of data mining techniques, applications, and tools helps piece together information.



The ultimate goal of the data mining process is to compile data, analyze the results, and execute operational strategies based on data mining results.
What Is Data Smoothing?  

Data smoothing is done by using an algorithm to remove noise from a data set. This allows important patterns to more clearly stand out.



Data smoothing can be used to help predict trends, such as those found in securities prices, as well as in economic analysis. Data smoothing is intended to ignore one-time outliers and take into account the effects of seasonality.





Key Takeaways

Data smoothing uses an algorithm to remove noise from a data set, allowing important patterns to stand out.Data smoothing can be used to predict trends, such as those found in securities prices.Different data smoothing models include the random method the use of moving averages.While data smoothing can help predict certain trends, it will inherently lead to less information in the sample that may lead to certain data points being ignored.


   Understanding Data Smoothing  

When data is compiled, it can be manipulated to remove or reduce any volatility, or any other type of noise. This is called data smoothing.



The idea behind data smoothing is that it can identify simplified changes in order to help predict different trends and patterns. It acts as an aid for statisticians or traders who need to look at a lot of data—that can often be complicated to digest—to find patterns they would not otherwise see.



To explain with a visual representation, imagine a one-year chart for Company X's stock. Each individual high point on the chart for the stock can be reduced while raising all the lower points. This would make a smoother curve, thus helping an investor make predictions about how the stock may perform in the future.






Smoothed data is generally preferred by economists because it better identifies changes in trends compared to unsmoothed data, which may appear more erratic and create false signals.


   Methods for Data Smoothing  

There are different methods in which data smoothing can be done. Some of these include the randomization method, using a random walk, calculating a moving average, or conducting one of several exponential smoothing techniques.






A simple moving average (SMA) places equal weight on both recent prices and historical ones, while an exponential moving average (EMA) puts more weight on recent price data.



The random walk model is commonly used to describe the behavior of financial instruments, such as stocks. Some investors believe that there is no relationship between past movement in a security's price and its future movement. Random walk smoothing assumes that future data points will equal the last available data point, plus a random variable. Technical and fundamental analysts disagree with this idea; they believe future movements can be extrapolated by examining past trends.



Often used in technical analysis, the moving average smooths out price action while it filters out volatility from random price movements. This process is based on past prices, making it a trend-following—or lagging—indicator. As can be seen in the price chart below, the moving average (EMA) has the general shape and trend of the underlying daily price data, depicted by the candlesticks. The more days incorporated into the moving average, the more smoothed the line becomes.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020 


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Data Smoothing  

Data smoothing can be used to help identify trends in the economy, in securities, such as stocks, and consumer sentiment. Data smoothing can also be used for other business purposes.



For example, an economist can smooth out data to make seasonal adjustments for certain indicators, like retail sales, by reducing the variations that may occur each month, like holidays or gas prices.



There are downfalls to using this tool, however. Data smoothing doesn't always provide an explanation of the trends or patterns it helps identify. It also may lead to certain data points being ignored by emphasizing others.





Pros

Helps identify real trends by eliminating noise from the data
Allows for seasonal adjustments of economic data
Easily achieved through several techniques including moving averages



Cons

Removing data always comes with less information to analyze, increasing the risk of errors in analysis
Smoothing may emphasize analysts' biases and ignore outliers that may be meaningful





   Example of Data Smoothing in Financial Accounting  

An often-cited example of data smoothing in business accounting is to make an allowance for doubtful accounts by changing bad debt expense from one reporting period to another. For example, a company expects not to receive payment for certain goods over two accounting periods; $1,000 in the first reporting period and $5,000 in the second reporting period.



If the first reporting period is expected to have a high income, the company may include the total amount of $6,000 as the allowance for doubtful accounts in that reporting period. This would increase the bad debt expense on the income statement by $6,000 and reduce net income by $6,000. This would thereby smooth out a high-income period by reducing income. It's important for companies to use judgment and legal accounting methods when adjusting any accounts.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is a Data Warehouse?  

A data warehouse is the secure electronic storage of information by a business or other organization. The goal of a data warehouse is to create a trove of historical data that can be retrieved and analyzed to provide useful insight into the organization's operations.



A data warehouse is a vital component of business intelligence. That wider term encompasses the information infrastructure that modern businesses use to track their past successes and failures and inform their decisions for the future.





Key Takeaways

A data warehouse is the storage of information over time by a business or other organization.New data is periodically added by people in various key departments such as marketing and sales.The warehouse becomes a library of historical data that can be retrieved and analyzed in order to inform decision-making in the business.The key factors in building an effective data warehouse include defining the information that is critical to the organization and identifying the sources of the information.A database is designed to supply real-time information. A data warehouse is designed as an archive of historical information.


   How a Data Warehouse Works  

The need to warehouse data evolved as businesses began relying on computer systems to create, file, and retrieve important business documents. The concept of data warehousing was introduced in 1988 by IBM researchers Barry Devlin and Paul Murphy.



Data warehousing is designed to enable the analysis of historical data. Comparing data consolidated from multiple heterogeneous sources can provide insight into the performance of a company. A data warehouse is designed to allow its users to run queries and analyses on historical data derived from transactional sources.



Data added to the warehouse does not change and cannot be altered. The warehouse is the source that is used to run analytics on past events, with a focus on changes over time. Warehoused data must be stored in a manner that is secure, reliable, easy to retrieve, and easy to manage.


  Maintaining a Data Warehouse  

There are certain steps that are taken to maintain a data warehouse. One step is data extraction, which involves gathering large amounts of data from multiple source points. After a set of data has been compiled, it goes through data cleaning, the process of combing through it for errors and correcting or excluding any that are found.



The cleaned-up data is then converted from a database format to a warehouse format. Once stored in the warehouse, the data goes through sorting, consolidating, and summarizing, so that it will be easier to use. Over time, more data is added to the warehouse as the various data sources are updated.



A key book on data warehousing is W. H. Inmon's Building the Data Warehouse, a practical guide that was first published in 1990 and has been reprinted several times.



Today, businesses can invest in cloud-based data warehouse software services from companies including Microsoft, Google, Amazon, and Oracle, among others.


   Data Mining  

Businesses warehouse data primarily for data mining. That involves looking for patterns of information that will help them improve their business processes.



A good data warehousing system makes it easier for different departments within a company to access each other's data. For example, a marketing team can assess the sales team's data in order to make decisions about how to adjust their sales campaigns.


  The 5 Steps of Data Mining  

The data mining process breaks down into five steps:



An organization collects data and loads it into a data warehouse.
The data are then stored and managed, either on in-house servers or in a cloud service.
Business analysts, management teams, and information technology professionals access and organize the data.
Application software sorts the data.
The end-user presents the data in an easy-to-share format, such as a graph or table.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi






The concept of the data warehouse was introduced by two IBM researchers in 1988.


   Data Warehouse Architecture  

Designing a data warehouse is known as data warehouse architecture and depending on the needs of the data warehouse, can come in a variety of tiers. Typically there are tier one, tier two, and tier three architecture designs.



Single-tier Architecture: Single-tier architecture is hardly used in the creation of data warehouses for real-time systems. They are often used for batch and real-time processing to process operational data. A single-tier design is composed of a single layer of hardware with the goal of keeping data space at a minimum.



Two-tier Architecture: In a two-tier architecture design, the analytical process is separated from the business process. The point of this is to increase levels of control and efficiency.



Three-tier Architecture: A three-tier architecture design has a top, middle, and bottom tier; these are known as the source layer, the reconciled layer, and the data warehouse layer. This design is suited for systems with long life cycles. When changes are made in the data, an extra layer of review and analysis of the data is completed to ensure there have been no errors.



Regardless of the tier, all data warehouse architectures must meet the same five properties: separation, scalability, extensibility, security, and administrability.


   Data Warehouse vs. Database  

A data warehouse is not the same as a database:



A database is a transactional system that monitors and updates real-time data in order to have only the most recent data available.A data warehouse is programmed to aggregate structured data over time.



For example, a database might only have the most recent address of a customer, while a data warehouse might have all the addresses of the customer for the past 10 years.






Data mining relies on the data warehouse. The data in the warehouse is sifted for insights into the business over time.


   Data Warehouse vs. Data Lake  

Both data warehouses and data lakes hold data for a variety of needs. The primary difference is that a data lake holds raw data of which the goal has not yet been determined. A data warehouse, on the other hand, holds refined data that has been filtered to be used for a specific purpose.



Data lakes are primarily used by data scientists while data warehouses are most often used by business professionals. Data lakes are also more easily accessible and easier to update while data warehouses are more structured and any changes are more costly.


   Data Warehouse vs. Data Mart  

A data mart is just a smaller version of a data warehouse. A data mart collects data from a small number of sources and focuses on one subject area. Data marts are faster and easier to use than data warehouses.



Data marts typically function as a subset of a data warehouse to focus on one area for analytical purposes, such as a specific department within an organization. Data marts are used to help make business decisions by helping with analysis and reporting.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Data Warehouses  

A data warehouse is intended to give a company a competitive advantage. It creates a resource of pertinent information that can be tracked over time and analyzed in order to help a business make more informed decisions.



It also can drain company resources and burden its current staff with routine tasks intended to feed the warehouse machine. Some other disadvantages include the following:



It takes considerable time and effort to create and maintain the warehouse.Gaps in information, caused by human error, can take years to surface, damaging the integrity and usefulness of the information.When multiple sources are used, inconsistencies between them can cause information losses.





Advantages

Provides fact-based analysis on past company performance to inform decision-making.
Serves as a historical archive of relevant data.
Can be shared across key departments for maximum usefulness.



Disadvantages

Creating and maintaining the warehouse is resource-heavy.
Input errors can damage the integrity of the information archived.
Use of multiple sources can cause inconsistencies in the data.







What Is a Data Warehouse and What Is It Used for?
A data warehouse is an information storage system for historical data that can be analyzed in numerous ways. Companies and other organizations draw on the data warehouse to gain insight into past performance and plan improvements to their operations.




What Is a Data Warehouse Example?
Consider a company that makes exercise equipment. Its best seller is a stationary bicycle, and it is considering expanding its line and launching a new marketing campaign to support it.It goes to its data warehouse to understand its current customer better. It can find out whether its customers are predominantly women over 50 or men under 35. It can learn more about the retailers that have been most successful in selling their bikes, and where they're located. It might be able to access in-house survey results and find out what their past customers have liked and disliked about their products.All of this information helps the company to decide what kind of new model bicycles they want to build and how they will market and advertise them. It's hard information rather than seat-of-the-pants decision-making.




What Are the Stages of Creating a Data Warehouse?
There are at least seven stages to the creation of a data warehouse, according to ITPro Today, an industry publication. They include:Determining the business objectives and its key performance indicators.Collecting and analyzing the appropriate information.Identifying the core business processes that contribute the key data.Constructing a conceptual data model that shows how the data are displayed to the end-user.Locating the sources of the data and establishing a process for feeding data into the warehouse.Establish a tracking duration. Data warehouses can become unwieldy. Many are built with levels of archiving, so that older information is retained in less detail.Implementing the plan.




Is SQL a Data Warehouse?
SQL, or Structured Query Language, is a computer language that is used to interact with a database in terms that it can understand and respond to. It contains a number of commands such as "select," "insert," and "update." It is the standard language for relational database management systems.A database is not the same as a data warehouse, although both are stores of information. A database is an organized collection of information. A data warehouse is an information archive that is continuously built from multiple sources.




What Is ETL in a Data Warehouse?
"ETL" stands for "extract, transform, and load." ETL is a data process that combines data from multiple sources into one single data storage unit, which is then loaded into a data warehouse or similar data system. It is used in data analytics and machine learning.


   The Bottom Line  

The data warehouse is a company's repository of information about its business and how it has performed over time. Created with input from employees in each of its key departments, it is the source for analysis that reveals the company's past successes and failures and informs its decision-making.
What Is a Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number?  

A data universal numbering system or DUNS number is a unique, nine-digit series of numerals that identifies a business. Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) creates the number, which generates a business profile in its database and provides a company's name, phone number, address, number of workers and line of business, along with other relevant corporate information.



The DUNS number is the most widely used method for identifying companies in the United States. Dun & Bradstreet maintains up-to-date information on hundreds of millions global businesses.





key takeaways

A data universal numbering system (DUNS) number is a unique, nine-digit numerical identifier that is assigned to a single business entity.Dun & Bradstreet created DUNS in 1963 to identify businesses as part of its business credit reporting system.DUNS numbers are free for U.S. companies.While getting a DUNS number is voluntary, having one is mandatory to apply for government contracts and often to conduct business abroad.


   How a DUNS Number Works  

Dun & Bradstreet created its data universal numbering system (DUNS) in 1963 to identify businesses as part of its business credit reporting system. In 1994, DUNS became the standard business identifier for federal government electronic commerce. 



Listed companies include major corporations, small business owners, nonprofit organizations, and partnerships. Its users include the U.S. government, the United Nations and major retailers such as Target (TGT).



The DUNS number provides information related to a company such as its official business title, name, financial data, trade name, payment history, economic status, and executive names. Further, the number allows a company to search for information about other companies and helps businesses find potential customers, partners, or vendors. The federal government requires all existing and potential contract vendors, grant recipients and cooperative agreement applicants to have a DUNS number.



Registering for a DUNS number is voluntary. However, the identifier is necessary to bid on local, state, or government contracts and apply for federal grants or other credit with a lender. It also allows for the confirmation of the credibility of a business and helps with conducting business with retailers and some foreign countries.


   Applying for a DUNS Number  

Applying for a DUNS number is done through the DUNS website. Businesses based in the U.S. may request a DUNS number for free. An authorized representative of the company must complete the application, and receiving a DUNS number may take up to 30 days.



However, the number can be obtained within 24 hours at no cost if applying as part of a federal government contract. The authorized representative of the company will need to provide a legal company name, headquarters company name and address, physical address, mailing address, telephone number, contact name and title, and the number of employees at the physical location.



A DUNS number is specific to a physical location. Therefore, a company would need a separate DUNS for each of its physical locations such as a branch, division or headquarters. It is the organization's responsibility to manage its DUNS numbers and verify that information is accurate.



The DUNS Number Lookup tool is used to check whether a business has a DUNS number. The D&B database allows for accessing the company's D&B business credit score, review and update an existing D&B credit report, view and print a copy of its D&B credit report, review and dispute payment history, and update financial information.


   Special Considerations  

The DUNS number is used to identify a business registered with Dun & Bradstreet. The listing of companies with another credit bureau, such as Experian, will not be found on the D&B database since the credit bureaus each maintain unique databases and do not share data with one another.
David Ricardo (1772–1823) was a classical economist best known for his theory on wages and profit, the labor theory of value, the theory of comparative advantage, and the theory of rents. David Ricardo and several other economists also simultaneously and independently discovered the law of diminishing marginal returns. His most well-known work is Principles of Political Economy and Taxation (1817).





Key Takeaways

David Ricardo was a classical economist who developed several key theories that remain influential in economics.Ricardo was a successful investor and member of Parliament who took up writing about economics after retiring young from his fortunes.Ricardo is best known for his theories of comparative advantage, economic rents, and the labor theory of value.Ricardo's widely acclaimed comparative advantage theory suggests that nations can gain an international trade advantage when they focus on producing goods that produce the lowest opportunity costs as compared to other nations.Ricardo suggested that a good's value is determined by the labor hours invested in its production.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Early Life and Education  

Born in England in 1772, one of 17 children, David Ricardo began working with his father as a stockbroker at the age of 14. He was disowned by his father at 21, however, for marrying outside his religion. His wealth came from his success with a business he started that dealt with government securities. He retired at the age of 41 after earning an estimated £1 million speculating on the outcome of the Battle of Waterloo.



After retiring, Ricardo purchased a seat in Parliament for £4,000, and he served as a member of Parliament. Influenced by Adam Smith, Ricardo held company with other leading thinkers of the time, such as James Mill, Jeremy Bentham, and Thomas Malthus.


   Notable Accomplishments  
  Comparative Advantage Theory  

Among the notable ideas that Ricardo introduced was the theory of comparative advantage, which argued that countries can benefit from international trade by specializing in the production of goods for which they have a relatively lower opportunity cost in production even if they do not have an absolute advantage in the production of any particular good.



For example, a mutual trade benefit would be realized between China and the United Kingdom from China specializing in the production of porcelain and tea and the United Kingdom concentrating on machine parts. Ricardo is prominently associated with the net benefits of free trade and the detriment of protectionist policies. Ricardo's theory of comparative advantage produced offshoots and critiques that are discussed to this day.


  Labor Theory of Value  

Another of Ricardo's best-known contributions to economics was the labor theory of value. The labor theory of value states that the value of a good could be measured by the labor that it took to produce it. The theory states that the cost should not be based on the compensation paid for the labor, but on the total cost of production.



One example of this theory is that if a table takes two hours to make, and a chair takes one hour to make, one table is worth two chairs, regardless of how much per hour the makers of the table and chairs were paid. The labor theory of value would later become one of the foundations of Marxism.


  Theory of Rents  

Ricardo was the first economist to discuss the idea of rents, or benefits that accrue to the owners of assets solely due to their ownership rather than their contribution to any actual productive activity. In its original application, agricultural economics, the theory of rents shows that the benefits of a rise in grain prices will tend to accrue to the owners of agricultural lands in the form of rents paid by tenant farmers.



Ricardo's idea was later also applied to political economics, in the idea of rent-seeking, where the owners of assets that benefit from public policies that directly increased rents toward them have, and act on, an incentive to influence public policy.


  Ricardian Equivalence  

In public finance, Ricardo wrote that whether a government chooses to finance its expenditures through immediate taxation or through borrowing and deficit spending, the results for the economy will be equivalent. If taxpayers are rational, then they will account for any expected increase in future taxation to finance current deficits by saving an amount equivalent to current deficit spending, so the net change to total spending will be zero.



So if a government engages in deficit spending to boost the economy, then private spending will just fall by an equivalent amount as people save more, and the net effect on the aggregate economy will be a wash. 


   Published Works  

In his Essay on the Influence of a Low Price of Corn on the Profits of Stock (1815), Ricardo conceptualized the law of diminishing returns with respect to labor and capital.



Ricardo wrote his first article on economics, published in The Morning Chronicle, at the age of 37. The article advocated for the Bank of England to reduce its note-issuing activity. His 1815 book, Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, contains his most well-known ideas.




What Did David Ricardo Argue in His Iron Law of Wages Theory?
David Ricardo argued that attempts to increase or improve workers' wages were pointless because wages would, in time, return to or hover around the subsistence level.




What Is the Economic Theory of David Ricardo?
David Ricardo, although well known for his vast contributions to economics, is best known for developing the comparative advantage economic theory. Comparative advantage theorizes that, for international trade, countries most benefit from producing goods with low production opportunity costs.




What Did David Ricardo Contribute to Economics?
David Ricardo's contributions to economics are immeasurable, but he is highly regarded for his contributions to major theories like the law of diminishing returns, comparative advantage, theory of rents, and the labor theory of value. With the law of diminishing returns theory, Ricardo and other economists suggest that after an ideal point in production, adding an additional unit will result in smaller increases in output. Ricardo suggests, in the comparative advantage theory, that nations fare better when they focus on producing goods with the lowest production opportunity costs. The labor theory of value states that the value of a good is measured by the labor hours it took to produce it, not how much is paid for the labor. Ricardo is also widely known for the introduction of the concept of rents. In his theory of rents, he asserted that asset owners reap accrued benefits only because of their ownership rights.


   The Bottom Line  

David Ricardo was an 18th-century English economist renowned for his contributions to economic theory. He developed the comparative advantage theory, labor theory of value, and the theory of rents, which have founded other schools of thought and form the basis of current economic policies and decisions. Although best known for his work in economics, his influence also extended into the political arena, where he occupied a seat in Parliament.
David Tepper is regarded as a prominent investor and hedge fund manager. In 1993, Tepper co-founded Appaloosa Management L.P.



With a net worth exceeding $16.7 billion, David Tepper is recognized as one of the world's prominent billionaires.





Key Takeaways

David Tepper is a renowned hedge fund manager and co-founder of Appaloosa Management L.P.He is the owner of a National Football League team, the Carolina Panthers.In 2003, Tepper donated $55 million to Carnegie Mellon University and the university established the David A. Tepper School of Business.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Early Life and Education  

David Tepper was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on Sept. 11, 1957. He graduated from the University of Pittsburgh in 1978 with a bachelor's degree in economics and earned an MBA in 1982 from Carnegie Mellon University. Tepper's early career in finance began with positions at Equibank, Republic Steel, and Goldman Sachs.


   Appaloosa Management L.P.  

In 1985, David Tepper joined Goldman Sachs as a credit analyst on the high yield debt team in New York. As a head trader, Tepper remained at Goldman Sachs for seven years. A specialist in distressed debt, particularly bankruptcies and special debt situations, Tepper left Goldman Sachs in 1993 to launch Appaloosa Management L.P. with his former colleague, Jack Walton.


   Investing in Debt  

As a limited partnership hedge fund, Appaloosa brought together a small group of wealthy investors. Appaloosa used high-risk methods, such as investing with borrowed money, to realize large capital gains. Targeting the debt of companies in distress, Appaloosa's first investment was in the now-bankrupt Algoma Steel. Appaloosa would continue to bet and succeed on bond purchases of troubled companies like Enron, Worldcom, Marconi Corp., and Williams Co. These companies contributed to a 150% gain in Tepper's portfolio position.



At its inception, with $57 million in capital, Appaloosa delivered a 57% return on its assets within six months. The fund's worth grew steadily, from $300 million in 1994 to $800 million in 1996, and in 2022, Appaloosa managed $3.82 billion worth of assets.


   The Crash  

David Tepper's aggressive style and confidence are often seen as his best traits as a hedge fund manager. Following the 2008 subprime mortgage crash, when panicked sellers were driving down the value of financial institutions like Bank of America and Citigroup, Tepper was investing in them. The hedge fund tycoon purchased nearly $2 billion in face value commercial mortgage-backed securities floated by AIG. When the U.S. government intervened in the survival of the banks, Appaloosa profited by $7 billion. David Tepper's investments following the 2008 market crash are often viewed as some of the greatest market trades ever made.


   Family Office  

In 2019, David Tepper announced that Appaloosa would eventually move to a family office, continually returning capital to its investors each year. At the time, Appaloosa managed $14 billion worth of assets, with 70% of that total belonging to David Tepper.



As the fund moves into a family office, Appaloosa will return all capital balances to every investor who doesn't have a direct familial relationship with Tepper. This may entail “closing” the fund or creating a new private entity. David Tepper would then gain a greater degree of privacy, flexibility, and control over both his investment assets and personal affairs.




With Which Business Sectors Did Appaloosa Achieve Success?
David Tepper's investment in banks (AIG), energy (ENRON), and telecommunications (Marconi) helped define Appaloosa's success.




What Is David Tepper's View Of Crypto Currency?
David Tepper has equated holding crypto to holding gold. He views crypto as a stored value and has said that he owns a small amount.




What Is David Tepper's Interest in Sports?
David Tepper showed an interest in baseball and football at a young age. He had a penchant for memorizing baseball statistics. In 2009, he purchased a share of the NFL team, the Pittsburgh Steelers. He bought another NFL team, the Carolina Panthers, in 2018.


   The Bottom Line  

David Tepper is known as one of the leading hedge fund managers of his generation. He is considered an expert in distressed debt investment. Garnering steady returns for client investors since its 1993 inception, Tepper's Appaloosa fund has compounded at more than 25% per year.
What Is the DAX Stock Index?  

The DAX—also known as the Deutscher Aktien Index or the GER40—is a stock index that represents 40 of the largest and most liquid German companies that trade on the Frankfurt Exchange. The prices used to calculate the DAX Index come through Xetra, an electronic trading system. A free-float methodology is used to calculate the index weightings along with a measure of the average trading volume.



The DAX was created in 1988 with a starting index level of 1,163 points. DAX member companies represent roughly 80% of the aggregate market capitalization that trades on the Frankfurt Exchange. The index was historically comprised of 30 companies but was expanded to 40 as of Sept. 3, 2021.





Key Takeaways

The DAX is a German blue-chip stock market index that tracks the performance of the 40 largest companies trading on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange.Xetra is an electronic trading system that provides the prices used to calculate the DAX index.The DAX is a prominent benchmark for German and European stocks, listing major companies by liquidity and market capitalization, and an indicator of trends in Germany's economy.A few of the globally recognized companies on the DAX include Volkswagen, Bayer, BMW, and Adidas.


   Understanding the DAX Stock Index  

The DAX index, which tracks 40 large and actively traded German companies, is considered by many analysts to be a gauge for Germany's economic health. The companies listed in the DAX are multinational concerns that influence the domestic German economy and the global economy as well. The success of these companies has greatly contributed to what is known as the "German economic miracle" or Wirtschaftswunder, a term that describes Germany's rebirth after World War II.



The companies in the DAX index span a wide range of industries. For example, Bayer AG is a pharmaceutical and consumer health company founded in 1863 and is well-known for its pain and allergy-relief products. Allianz SE is a global financial services company that focuses on providing customers with insurance and asset management products. Adidas AG develops, manufactures, and markets popular athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment.


   Special Considerations  

In a different twist from most indices, the DAX is updated with futures prices for the next day, even after the main stock exchange has closed. Changes are made on regular review dates, but index members can be removed if they no longer rank in the top 45 largest companies, or added if they break the top 25.



The vast majority of shares on the Frankfurt Exchange now trade on the all-electronic Xetra system, with a near-95% adoption rate for the stocks of the 40 DAX members.






As a blue-chip stock market index, the DAX is very similar to the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), which also tracks large, publicly owned companies.


   DAX Member Companies  

As of Jan. 25, 2022, four months after the index's major expansion, the DAX companies included (in alphabetical order):



Airbus SE (AIR:GR)*Adidas AG (ADS:GR)Allianz SE (ALV:GR)BASF SE (BAS:GR)Bayer AG (BAYN:GR)Beiersdorf AG (BEI:GR)Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW:GR)Brenntag SE (BNR:GR)*Continental AG (CON:GR)Covestro AG (1COV:GR)Daimler AG (DAI:GR)Delivery Hero SE (DHER:GE)Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1:GR)Deutsche Bank AG (DBK:GR)Deutsche Post AG (DPW:GR)Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE:GR)E.ON SE (EOAN:GR)Fresenius Medical Care AG & Co. KGaA (FME.GR)Fresenius SE & Co. KGaA (FRE:GR)HeidelbergCement AG (HEI:GR)HelloFresh SE (HFG:GR)*Henkel AG & Co. KGaA (HEN3:GR)Infineon Technologies AG (IFX:GR)Linde PLC (LIN:GR)Merck KGaA (MRK:GR)MTU Aero Engines AG (MTX:GR)Muenchener Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG in Muenchen (MUV2:GR)Porsche Automobil Holding (PAH3:GR)*Puma SE (PUM:GR)*Qiagen N.V. (QIA:GR)*RWE AG (RWE:GR)SAP SE (SAP:GR)Sartorius AG Vz (SRT3:GR)*Siemens AG (SIE:GR)Siemens Energy AG (ENR:GR)Siemens Healthineers AG (SHL:GR)*Symrise AG (SY1:GR)*Vonovia SE (VNA:GR)Volkswagen AG (VOW3:GR)Zalando SE (ZAL:GR)*



*one of the 10 firms added in September 2021


   Other Major Stock Exchanges  

Other major trading exchanges worldwide include:



The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)The NasdaqThe London Stock Exchange (LSE)The Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE)
What Is Day-Count Convention?  

A day-count convention is the system used on debt securities, such as bonds or swaps, to calculate the amount of accrued interest or the present value when the next coupon payment is less than a full coupon period away.





Key Takeaways

A day-count convention is a standardized methodology for calculating the number of days between two dates.The interest on most money market deposits and floating-rate notes is calculated on an actual/360 day-count convention while bonds and notes issued by the U.S. Treasury earn interest calculated on an actual/actual basis.The fixed-rate leg of an interest rate swap and most fixed-rate bonds use either the 30/360 or 30/365 day-count convention while the floating-rate leg uses some variation of an actual/360 or 365 day-count convention.


   Understanding Day-Count Convention  

The day-count conventions apply to swaps, mortgages, and forward rate agreements as well as bonds. Many of the rules and definitions for applying the day-count convention are set forth by the International Swap Dealers Association, which provides documentation for a wide range of financial transactions.



For example, an agreed-upon day-count convention would be used to calculate the amount of accrued interest or the present value (PV) when the next coupon payment is less than a full coupon period away.



Among the most common conventions are 30/360, 30/365, actual/360, actual/365, and actual/actual.



30/360 - calculates the daily interest using a 360-day year and then multiplies that by 30 (standardized month).30/365 - calculates the daily interest using a 365-day year and then multiplies that by 30 (standardized month).actual/360 - calculates the daily interest using a 360-day year and then multiplies that by the actual number of days in each time period.actual/365 - calculates the daily interest using a 365-day year and then multiplies that by the actual number of days in each time period.actual/actual - calculates the daily interest using the actual number of days in the year and then multiplies that by the actual number of days in each time period.



Each bond market and financial instrument has its own day-count convention, which varies depending on the type of instrument, whether the interest rate is fixed or floating, and the country of issuance. Bonds and notes issued by the U.S. Treasury earn interest calculated on an actual/actual basis. This means all days in a period carry equal value; it also means the length of coupon periods and the resultant payments vary.



The interest on most money market deposits and floating-rate notes is calculated on an actual/360-day basis. The major exception is those denominated in the British pound, for which interest is calculated on the actual/365 basis. Currencies that are, or have been, closely related to the British pound, such as the Australian, New Zealand, and Hong Kong dollars, also use 365 days.



The fixed-rate leg of an interest rate swap and most fixed-rate bonds use either the 30/360-day convention or 30/365. This convention stipulates the month will always be treated as having 30 days in it, and the year will consistently be treated as having either 360 or 365 days. Swap markets using the 30/360 convention for the fixed rate of a swap include the U.S. dollar, the euro, and the Swiss franc. Swaps in the British pound and the Japanese yen usually use the 30/365 convention; Australia, New Zealand, and Hong Kong again follow the United Kingdom.



The floating-rate leg of most interest rate swaps uses some variation of an actual day count versus either a 360 or 365-day year. The markets that use 30/360 for the fixed-rate leg, which include the U.S. Dollar markets, use actual/360 for the floating-rate leg. Those that use 30/365 on the fixed-rate leg use actual/365 on the floating-rate leg.



The London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) is the most commonly used benchmark interest rate and is posted daily at 11:45 a.m. London time.






The Intercontinental Exchange, the authority responsible for LIBOR, will stop publishing one-week and two-month USD LIBOR after Dec. 31, 2021. All other LIBOR will be discontinued after June 30, 2023.﻿﻿﻿﻿



For most currencies, interest at LIBOR is calculated on the actual/360-day basis; the major exception is again the British pound, which is calculated on the actual/365-day basis.
What is a Day Order?  

A day order is a stipulation placed on an order to a broker to execute a trade at a specific price that expires at the end of the trading day if it is not completed. A day order can be a limit order to buy or sell a security, but its duration is limited to the remainder of that trading day.





Key Takeaways

Day orders are limit orders to buy or sell securities that are only good for the remainder of the trading day on which are placed.If the trade isn't triggered, the order goes unfilled and is cancelled at the end of the session.Traders have the option of using other durations, but most limit orders tend to be day orders.


   Understanding Day Orders  

A day order is one of several different order duration types that determine how long the order is in the market before it is canceled. In the case of a day order, that duration is one trading session. In other words, if the trader's order is not executed or triggered the order on the day it was placed, the order gets canceled. Two examples of other duration-based orders are the good 'til canceled (GTC) order which remains active until it is manually canceled, and the immediate or cancel (IOC) order, which fills all or part of an order immediately and cancels the remaining part of the order if it cannot be fulfilled.



Day order often serves as the default order duration on trading platforms. Therefore, the trader must specify a different time frame for the expiration of the order, or it will automatically be a day order. That said, day traders can use many different types of orders when placing trades. By being the default, however, most market orders are in fact day orders.


   Using Day Orders  

Day orders can be particularly useful when used to order a security at a specific price point, so that the trader does not need to monitor the security for the rest of the day waiting for the right time to execute the order. This helps intraday traders monitor and trade multiple securities at one time, which is common practice. Before the market opens, traders analyze each individual security they trade and then place orders according to their strategies. The trader takes further action over the course of the trading day as the individual orders are executed.



Intraday traders often use strategies that dictate exiting positions before the market closes. Thus, if an order is not filled by the end of the day, the trader will cancel it. Because this happens automatically for day orders, intraday traders tend to favor them.


   Watching Day Orders  

Day orders can be a source of stress for investors who are not professional traders. If an investor is not monitoring the price of the security during the trading day, a day limit order may take place without their knowledge. If an investor makes a day order to sell a certain security and the security experiences an unforeseen price drop, the order may be executed before the investor becomes aware of the situation, leaving the investor with bigger loss than was expected. In this scenario, of course, the loss would have been realized either way, but the investors may have chosen to hold rather than sell at a loss depending on what was behind the drop. As a rule, it is a good idea to pay attention to the market when actively placing orders.
What Is a Day Trader?  

A day trader is a type of trader who executes a relatively large volume of short and long trades to capitalize on intraday market price action. The goal is to profit from very short-term price movements. Day traders can also use leverage to amplify returns, which can also amplify losses.



While many strategies are employed by day traders, the price action sought after is a result of temporary supply and demand inefficiencies caused due to purchases and sales of the asset. Typically positions are held from periods of milliseconds to hours and are generally closed out before the end of the day so that no risk is held after hours or overnight.





Key Takeaways

Day traders are traders who execute intraday strategies to profit off relatively short-lived price changes for a given asset.Day traders employ a wide variety of techniques in order to capitalize on market inefficiencies, often making many trades a day and closing positions before the trading day ends.Day trading is often characterized by technical analysis and requires a high degree of self-discipline and objectivity.Day trading can be a lucrative undertaking, but it also comes with a high degree of risk and uncertainty.


   Understanding Day Traders  

There is no special qualification required to become a day trader. Instead, day traders are classified based on the frequency of their trading. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission classify day traders based on whether they trade four or more times during a five-day span, provided the number of day trades is more than 6% of the customer's total trading activity during that period or the brokerage/investment firm where they have opened an account considers them a day trader.



A day trader often closes all trades before the end of the trading day, so as not to hold open positions overnight. A day trader's effectiveness may be limited by the bid-ask spread, trading commissions, as well as expenses for real-time news feeds and analytics software. Successful day trading requires extensive knowledge and experience. Day traders employ a variety of methods to make trading decisions. Some traders employ computer trading models that use technical analysis to calculate favorable probabilities, while some trade on their instinct.






Day traders are subject to capital and margin maintenance requirements.



A day trader is primarily concerned with the price action characteristics of a stock. This is unlike investors, who use fundamental data to analyze the long-term growth potential of a company to decide whether to buy, sell or hold its stock.



Price volatility and average day range are critical to a day trader. A security must have sufficient price movement for a day trader to achieve a profit. Volume and liquidity are also crucial because entering and exiting trades quickly is vital to capturing small profits per trade. Securities with a small daily range or light daily volume would not be of interest to a day trader.


  Pattern Day Trader Designation  

A pattern day trader (PDT) is a regulatory designation for those traders or investors that execute four or more day trades over the span of five business days using a margin account.



The number of day trades must constitute more than 6% of the margin account's total trade activity during that five-day window. If this occurs, the trader's account will be flagged as a PDT by their broker. The PDT designation places certain restrictions on further trading; this designation is put in place to discourage investors from trading excessively.


   Day Trader Techniques  

Day traders are attuned to events that cause short-term market moves. Trading the news is a popular technique. Scheduled announcements such as economic statistics, corporate earnings, or interest rates are subject to market expectations and market psychology. Markets react when those expectations are not met or are exceeded, usually with sudden, significant moves, which can benefit day traders.



Another trading method is known as fading the gap at the open. When the opening price shows a gap from the previous day’s close, taking a position in the opposite direction of the gap is known as fading the gap. For days when there is no news or there are no gaps, early in the morning, day traders will take a view on the general direction of the market.



If they expect the market to move up, they would buy securities that exhibit strength when their prices dip. If the market is trending down, they would short securities that exhibit weakness when their prices bounce.



Most independent day traders have short days, working two to five hours per day. Often they will practice making simulated trades for several months before beginning to make live trades. They track their successes and failures versus the market, aiming to learn by experience.


   Day Trader Strategies  

Day traders use several intraday strategies. These may include:



Scalping: this strategy attempts to make numerous small profits on small price changes throughout the day, and may also include identifying short-lived arbitrage opportunities.
Range trading: this strategy primarily uses support and resistance levels to determine buy and sell decisions. This trading style may also go by the name swing trading if positions are held for weeks rather than hours or days.
News-based trading: this strategy typically seizes trading opportunities from the heightened volatility around news events and headlines.
High-frequency trading (HFT): these strategies use sophisticated algorithms to exploit small or short-term market inefficiencies up to several thousand times in a single day.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Day Trading  
  No Overnight Moves  

The most significant benefit of day trading is that positions are not affected by the possibility of negative overnight news that has the potential to impact the price of securities materially. Such news includes vital economic and earnings reports, as well as broker upgrades and downgrades that occur either before the market opens or after the market closes.


  Higher Margins and Easier Exits  

Another advantage is the ability to use tight stop-loss orders—the act of raising a stop price to minimize losses from a long position. Another includes the increased access to margin—and hence, greater leverage. Day trading also provides traders with more learning opportunities. 


  Higher Costs  

Intraday traders may have insufficient time for a position to see a profit. There are also increased commission costs due to trading more frequently, which eats away at the profit margins a trader can expect.


  Higher Risks  

Day traders that engage in short selling or use margin to leverage long positions can see losses amplify quickly, leading to margin calls.





Pros

Positions are usually closed at the end of each day, and are so unaffected by risk from overnight news or off-hours broker moves.
Tight stop-loss orders can protect positions from extreme movements.
Regular traders have access to increased leverage and lower commissions.
Numerous trades increase hands-on learning experience.



Cons

Frequent trades do mean multiple commission costs.
Some assets are off-limits, like mutual funds.
There may not be sufficient time for a position to realize a profit before it has to be closed out.
Losses can mount quickly, especially if margin is used to finance purchases. Margin calls are a real risk.





   Example of Day Trading  

Zack is a day trader who uses technical analysis to make trades with his brokerage account. By analyzing price trends over a single day, he is able to predict short-term movements to score a small profit several times per day.



During a typical trading day, Zack will watch metrics such as the Relative Strength Index and the Intraday Momentum Index to evaluate whether a particular stock is oversold or undersold. He may also use margin trading to increase his profits. He may also use stop-loss orders to exit positions quickly if the market turns against him.



If Zack is a successful day trader, then he expects to have more profitable trades than losing ones over the course of the day. However, one bad trade could wipe out his margin position. Due to this risk, day trading is sometimes compared to "picking up pennies in front of a steamroller."


   Day Trading vs. Other Types of Trading  

Day trading is one of several strategies for professional stock traders. Unlike other traders, they look for predictable price patterns and small corrections over the course of a single trading day. Although the profits are relatively small, they can accumulate over a long-enough time frame. Day traders typically close out their positions at the end of the trading day, reducing their exposure to swings in the overseas markets.



In contrast, swing traders try to anticipate the peaks and troughs of a stock's price movements over a longer time frame, often weeks or months. With the right strategy, swing traders can earn higher profits than intraday traders, but they have to spend more time looking for suitable stocks.



Similar to swing traders, trend traders examine a stock's momentum and moving averages to determine whether a stock is likely to move higher or lower. They then buy stocks with a strong upside, or short those likely to trend lower. Trend traders are likely to look for chart patterns or technical indicators in their forecasts.


   How to Become a Day Trader  

Becoming a successful day trader requires a great deal of personal discipline. Novice day traders should expect to lose money as they learn the ins and outs of the market and be psychologically prepared for further losses over the course of their careers.



Day trading also involves a great deal of research, not only into the fees and commissions on their trades but also the relevant taxes and regulations. For example, day traders should be cognizant of the wash sale rule, which prohibits repeated transactions of the same security within a 30-day period. They should also fully understand the risks, especially of trading on margin.




Can You Get Rich Day Trading?
While some day traders can make money, studies suggest that the majority either lose money or underperform the market. Studies by professional economists suggest that most day trading strategies are no more effective than random chance.




What Are the Tax Implications of Day Trading?
Intraday trades are considered short-term capital gains, meaning that they are taxed at the same level as your income. You are required to pay taxes on each profitable trade, but you can use your losing trades to offset the taxes on your gains. You can also use up to $3,000 of losses to offset income tax on your salary, and carry over additional losses to the next tax year.




How Much Can I Make Day Trading?
While most day traders lose money, there are day traders who can make a profit. Zippia estimates that the average income of successful day traders is about $117,000 per year, or about $56 per hour. However, there are also risks—solo day traders must also trade with their own money, which comes with much greater risk than an ordinary salary.


   The Bottom Line  

Day traders look for extremely short-term price changes in the stock or forex market, allowing them to accumulate profits over the course of a trading day. Although it can be profitable, it also comes with a high degree of risk—especially for traders on margin positions. In addition to a thorough understanding of the stock market, day traders must also exercise self-control and avoid impulsive mistakes.
What Is Days Payable Outstanding (DPO)?  

Days payable outstanding (DPO) is a financial ratio that indicates the average time (in days) that a company takes to pay its bills and invoices to its trade creditors, which may include suppliers, vendors, or financiers. The ratio is typically calculated on a quarterly or annual basis, and it indicates how well the company’s cash outflows are being managed.



A company with a higher value of DPO takes longer to pay its bills, which means that it can retain available funds for a longer duration, allowing the company an opportunity to use those funds in a better way to maximize the benefits. A high DPO, however, may also be a red flag indicating an inability to pay its bills on time.





Key Takeaways

Days payable outstanding (DPO) computes the average number of days a company needs to pay its bills and obligations.Companies that have a high DPO can delay making payments and use the available cash for short-term investments as well as to increase their working capital and free cash flow.However, higher values of DPO, though desirable, may not always be a positive for the business as it may signal a cash shortfall and inability to pay.DPO often varies by industry or company size, as larger companies often have more negotiation power to delay when payments are due. DPO is a turnover ratio that calculates how efficiently a company is operating and using resources. 












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Formula for Days Payable Outstanding (DPO)  

﻿















DPO


=




Accounts Payable


×


Number of Days




COGS


















where:
















COGS


=


Cost of Goods Sold

















 


 




=


Beginning Inventory


+


P


−


Ending Inventory








\begin{aligned} &\text{DPO} = \frac{\text{Accounts Payable}\times\text{Number of Days}}{\text{COGS}}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{COGS}=\text{Cost of Goods Sold} \\ &\qquad\ \ \, \,= \text{Beginning Inventory} + \text{P} -\text{Ending Inventory}\\ &\text{P}=\text{Purchases} \end{aligned}


​DPO=COGSAccounts Payable×Number of Days​where:COGS=Cost of Goods Sold  =Beginning Inventory+P−Ending Inventory​﻿


   How to Calculate DPO  

To manufacture a salable product, a company needs raw material, utilities, and other resources. In terms of accounting practices, the accounts payable represents how much money the company owes to its supplier(s) for purchases made on credit.



Additionally, there is a cost associated with manufacturing the salable product, and it includes payment for utilities like electricity and employee wages. This is represented by cost of goods sold (COGS), which is defined as the cost of acquiring or manufacturing the products that a company sells during a period. Both of these figures represent cash outflows and are used in calculating DPO over a period of time.



The number of days in the corresponding period is usually taken as 365 for a year and 90 for a quarter. The formula takes account of the average per day cost being borne by the company for manufacturing a salable product. The numerator figure represents payments outstanding. The net factor gives the average number of days taken by the company to pay off its obligations after receiving the bills.



Two different versions of the DPO formula are used depending upon the accounting practices. In one of the versions, the accounts payable amount is taken as the figure reported at the end of the accounting period, like “at the end of fiscal year/quarter ending Sept. 30.” This version represents the DPO value as of the mentioned date.



In another version, the average value of beginning AP and ending AP is taken, and the resulting figure represents the DPO value during that particular period. COGS remains the same in both versions.






DPO is a form of turnover ratio that measures the efficiency of a company.


   What Does DPO Tell You?  

Generally, a company acquires inventory, utilities, and other necessary services on credit. It results in accounts payable (AP), a key accounting entry that represents a company's obligation to pay off the short-term liabilities to its creditors or suppliers. Beyond the actual dollar amount to be paid, the timing of the payments—from the date of receiving the bill till the cash actually going out of the company’s account—also becomes an important aspect of the business. DPO attempts to measure this average time cycle for outward payments and is calculated by taking the standard accounting figures into consideration over a specified period of time.



Additionally, a company may need to balance its outflow tenure with that of the inflow. Imagine if a company allows a 90-day period for its customers to pay for the goods they purchase but has only a 30-day window to pay its suppliers and vendors. This mismatch will result in the company being prone to cash crunch frequently. Companies must strike a delicate balance with DPO.


  High DPO  

Companies having high DPO can use the available cash for short-term investments and to increase their working capital and free cash flow (FCF). However, higher values of DPO may not always be a positive for the business. If the company takes too long to pay its creditors, it risks jeopardizing its relations with the suppliers and creditors who may refuse to offer the trade credit in the future or may offer it on terms that may be less favorable to the company. The company may also be losing out on any discounts on timely payments, if available, and it may be paying more than necessary.


  Low DPO  

On the other hand, a low DPO indicates that a company is paying its bills to suppliers quickly, which may suggest that the company is managing its cash flow effectively. A low DPO is considered to be a positive sign for a company's financial health, as it shows that the company is able to pay its bills in a timely manner. This also helps maintain good relationship with suppliers.



However, a low DPO may also indicate that the company is not taking advantage of discounts offered by suppliers for early payment. For example, a company may be extended a payment period of 30 days; if it usually pays invoices after 10 days, the company could have been earning interest on the funds for an additional 20 days before remitting payment.






A high DPO can indicate a company that is using capital resourcefully but it can also show that the company is struggling to pay its creditors.


   Special Considerations  

Typical DPO values vary widely across different industry sectors and it is not worthwhile comparing these values across different sector companies. A firm's management will instead compare its DPO to the average within its industry to see if it is paying its vendors too quickly or too slowly. Depending upon the various global and local factors, like the overall performance of the economy, region, and sector, plus any applicable seasonal impacts, the DPO value of a particular company can vary significantly from year to year, company to company, and industry to industry.



DPO value also forms an integral part of the formula used for calculating the cash conversion cycle (CCC), another key metric that expresses the length of time that a company takes to convert the resource inputs into realized cash flows from sales. While DPO focuses on the current outstanding payable by the business, the superset CCC follows the entire cash time-cycle as the cash is first converted into inventory, expenses, and accounts payable, through to sales and accounts receivable, and then back into cash in hand when received.


   How to Improve DPO  

Most often companies want a high DPO as long as this doesn't indicate it's inability to make payment. A company can negotiate with its suppliers to extend payment terms. If a company really prioritizes maximizing its DPO, it can decline to take advantage of early payment discounts.



By using electronic payment systems, a company can streamline its payment processes and make payments more quickly and efficiently. This means that instead of issuing slower means of payment such as a check that may have to be processed and mailed early in order for it to be received in time. Instead, a company can issue electronic payments the instant something is due.



If a company wants to decrease its DPO, a company can also regularly monitor its accounts payable to identify and resolve any issues that may be delaying payment to suppliers. A company can also more quickly resolve supplier payment problems if it has accurate and up-to-date records.






DPO may be most valuable when compared over time. For example, a company can see whether its DPO is improving or worsening over time and make the appropriate course of action accordingly.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of DPO  
  Advantages of DPO  

A company can use DPO to understand its financial flexibility. By evaluating its DPO, it can project its creditworthiness, liquidity, and financial health. When a company's DPO is high, this may either mean the company is struggling to pay bills on time or is effectively using credit terms. Only by measuring DPO can a company further evaluate.



When a company knows its DPO, it can better assess whether it is paying its bills quickly which helps maintain good relationships with suppliers. A company usually wants to balance the benefit of paying a vendor early against the purchasing power lost by spending capital early. In many cases, a company want want to be on the good graces of a supplier to potentially receive goods earlier.


  Disadvantages of DPO  

While DPO is useful in comparing relative strength among companies, there is no clear-cut figure for what constitutes a healthy days payable outstanding, as the DPO varies significantly by industry, competitive positioning of the company, and its bargaining power. Large companies with a strong power of negotiation are able to contract for better terms with suppliers and creditors, effectively producing lower DPO figures than they would have otherwise.



In addition, a higher DPO may mean several things and usually must be further investigated as the figure by itself doesn't mean much. For example, a company may be thinking that its DPO means it is efficiently using capital. On the contrary, the company may actually be paying vendors late and racking up late fees. Therefore, DPO by itself doesn't amount to much unless management knows the drivers behind it.




DPO

Pros

Can be used to gauge the financial health of a company
Is easy to calculate
Is often the first step is better knowing a company's liquidity and potential cash constraints
Is useful in measuring the relationship with suppliers



Cons

No clear cut figure for what is good or bad
Often varies across industries
Usually changes based on the size of company and purchasing power
Often requires further research to understand





   Real-World Example of DPO  

The snippet below is taken from Amazon's consolidated statement of operations. The figures represent the amount of expenses related to the cost of sales. Note that in the calculation beloe, other operating expenses such as sales, marketing, technology, general, or administrative costs have been omitted.















Amazon, Consolidated Statement of Operations.



In addition, Amazon reports its accounts payable balance on its balance sheet.















Amazon, Consolidated Balance Sheet.



Using this information, you can calculate Amazon's DPO. For the accounts payable portion, we can assume that the beginning balance of one period is the ending balance of the prior period. Therefore, using this method, the average balance of accounts payable for 2022 was $79,132 (in millions). Alternatively, Amazon's average daily accounts payable balance was $216.8 million.



For the COGS, the company directly reports that as cost of sales. For 2022, Amazon's cost of goods sold was $288.8 billion.



Therefore, DPO can be calculated as: ($79,132/$288,851) * 365 days. Therefore, Amazon's DPO is approximately 100 days. This DPO calculation demonstrates Amazon's ability to leverage its size to enter into contracts in which it has long, open periods where it is not expected to pay an invoice.




What Does Days Payable Outstanding Mean in Accounting?
As a financial ratio, days of payable outstanding (DPO) shows the amount of time that companies take to pay financiers, creditors, vendors, or suppliers. The DPO may indicate a few things, namely, how a company is managing its cash, or the means for a company to utilize this cash towards short-term investments that in turn may amplify their cash flow. The DPO is measured on a quarterly or annual term.




How Do You Calculate Days Payable Outstanding?
To calculate days of payable outstanding (DPO), the following formula is applied: DPO = Accounts Payable X Number of Days/Cost of Goods Sold (COGS). Here, COGS refers to beginning inventory plus purchases subtracting the ending inventory. Accounts payable, on the other hand, refers to company purchases that were made on credit that are due to its suppliers.




What Is the Difference Between DPO and DSO?
Days payable outstanding (DPO) is the average time for a company to pay its bills. By contrast, days sales outstanding (DSO) is the average length of time for sales to be paid back to the company. When a DSO is high, it indicates that the company is waiting extended periods to collect money for products that it sold on credit. By contrast, a high DPO could be interpreted multiple ways, either indicating that the company is utilizing its cash on hand to create more working capital, or indicating poor management of free cash flow.
What Is Days Sales of Inventory (DSI)?  

The days sales of inventory (DSI) is a financial ratio that indicates the average time in days that a company takes to turn its inventory, including goods that are a work in progress, into sales.



DSI is also known as the average age of inventory, days inventory outstanding (DIO), days in inventory (DII), days sales in inventory, or days inventory and is interpreted in multiple ways. Indicating the liquidity of the inventory, the figure represents how many days a company’s current stock of inventory will last. Generally, a lower DSI is preferred as it indicates a shorter duration to clear off the inventory, though the average DSI varies from one industry to another.





Key Takeaways

Days sales of inventory (DSI) is the average number of days it takes for a firm to sell off inventory. DSI is a metric that analysts use to determine the efficiency of sales.A high DSI can indicate that a firm is not properly managing its inventory or that it has inventory that is difficult to sell.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Days Sales of Inventory (DSI) Formula and Calculation  
















D


S


I


=



Average inventory



C


O


G


S




×


365


 days
















where:
















D


S


I


=


days sales of inventory
















C


O


G


S


=


cost of goods sold







\begin{aligned} &DSI = \frac{\text{Average inventory}}{COGS} \times 365 \text{ days}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &DSI=\text{days sales of inventory}\\ &COGS=\text{cost of goods sold}\\ \end{aligned}


​DSI=COGSAverage inventory​×365 dayswhere:DSI=days sales of inventoryCOGS=cost of goods sold​



To manufacture a salable product, a company needs raw material and other resources which form the inventory and come at a cost. Additionally, there is a cost linked to the manufacturing of the salable product using the inventory. Such costs include labor costs and payments towards utilities like electricity, which is represented by the cost of goods sold (COGS) and is defined as the cost of acquiring or manufacturing the products that a company sells during a period. DSI is calculated based on the average value of the inventory and cost of goods sold during a given period or as of a particular date. Mathematically, the number of days in the corresponding period is calculated using 365 for a year and 90 for a quarter. In some cases, 360 days is used instead.



The numerator figure represents the valuation of the inventory. The denominator (Cost of Sales / Number of Days) represents the average per day cost being spent by the company for manufacturing a salable product. The net factor gives the average number of days taken by the company to clear the inventory it possesses.



Two different versions of the DSI formula can be used depending upon the accounting practices. In the first version, the average inventory amount is taken as the figure reported at the end of the accounting period, such as at the end of the fiscal year ending June 30. This version represents DSI value “as of” the mentioned date. In another version, the average value of Start Date Inventory and End Date Inventory is taken, and the resulting figure represents DSI value “during” that particular period. Therefore,








Average Inventory


=


Ending Inventory



\text{Average Inventory} = \text{Ending Inventory}


Average Inventory=Ending Inventory



or








Average Inventory


=




(


Beginning Inventory


+


Ending Inventory


)



2




\text{Average Inventory} = \frac{(\text{Beginning Inventory} + \text{Ending Inventory})}{2}


Average Inventory=2(Beginning Inventory+Ending Inventory)​



COGS value remains the same in both the versions.


   What DSI Tells You  

Since DSI indicates the duration of time a company’s cash is tied up in its inventory, a smaller value of DSI is preferred. A smaller number indicates that a company is more efficiently and frequently selling off its inventory, which means rapid turnover leading to the potential for higher profits (assuming that sales are being made in profit). On the other hand, a large DSI value indicates that the company may be struggling with obsolete, high-volume inventory and may have invested too much into the same. It is also possible that the company may be retaining high inventory levels in order to achieve high order fulfillment rates, such as in anticipation of bumper sales during an upcoming holiday season.



DSI is a measure of the effectiveness of inventory management by a company. Inventory forms a significant chunk of the operational capital requirements for a business. By calculating the number of days that a company holds onto the inventory before it is able to sell it, this efficiency ratio measures the average length of time that a company’s cash is locked up in the inventory.



However, this number should be looked upon cautiously as it often lacks context. DSI tends to vary greatly among industries depending on various factors like product type and business model. Therefore, it is important to compare the value among the same sector peer companies. Companies in the technology, automobile, and furniture sectors can afford to hold on to their inventories for long, but those in the business of perishable or fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) cannot. Therefore, sector-specific comparisons should be made for DSI values.


   Special Considerations  

One must also note that a high DSI value may be preferred at times depending on the market dynamics. If a short supply is expected for a particular product in the next quarter, a business may be better off holding on to its inventory and then selling it later for a much higher price, thus leading to improved profits in the long run.



For example, a drought situation in a particular soft water region may mean that authorities will be forced to supply water from another area where water quality is hard. It may lead to a surge in demand for water purifiers after a certain period, which may benefit the companies if they hold onto inventories.



Irrespective of the single-value figure indicated by DSI, the company management should find a mutually beneficial balance between optimal inventory levels and market demand.


   DSI vs. Inventory Turnover  

A similar ratio related to DSI is inventory turnover, which refers to the number of times a company is able to sell or use its inventory over the course of a particular time period, such as quarterly or annually. Inventory turnover is calculated as the cost of goods sold divided by average inventory. It is linked to DSI via the following relationship:








D


S


I


=



1


inventory turnover



×


365


 days



DSI = \frac{1}{\text{inventory turnover}}\times 365 \text{ days}


DSI=inventory turnover1​×365 days



Basically, DSI is an inverse of inventory turnover over a given period. Higher DSI means lower turnover and vice versa.



In general, the higher the inventory turnover ratio, the better it is for the company, as it indicates a greater generation of sales. A smaller inventory and the same amount of sales will also result in high inventory turnover. In some cases, if the demand for a product outweighs the inventory on hand, a company will see a loss in sales despite the high turnover ratio, thus confirming the importance of contextualizing these figures by comparing them against those of industry competitors.



DSI is the first part of the three-part cash conversion cycle (CCC), which represents the overall process of turning raw materials into realizable cash from sales. The other two stages are days sales outstanding (DSO) and days payable outstanding (DPO). While the DSO ratio measures how long it takes a company to receive payment on accounts receivable, the DPO value measures how long it takes a company to pay off its accounts payable. Overall, the CCC value attempts to measure the average duration of time for which each net input dollar (cash) is tied up in the production and sales process before it gets converted into cash received through sales made to customers.


   Why the DSI Matters  

Managing inventory levels is vital for most businesses, and it is especially important for retail companies or those selling physical goods. While the inventory turnover ratio is one of the best indicators of a company’s level of efficiency at turning over its inventory and generating sales from that inventory, the days sales of inventory ratio goes a step further by putting that figure into a daily context and providing a more accurate picture of the company’s inventory management and overall efficiency.



DSI and inventory turnover ratio can help investors to know whether a company can effectively manage its inventory when compared to competitors. A 2014 paper in Management Science, "Does Inventory Productivity Predict Future Stock Returns? A Retailing Industry Perspective," suggests that stocks in companies with high inventory ratios tend to outperform industry averages. A stock that brings in a higher gross margin than predicted can give investors an edge over competitors due to the potential surprise factor. Conversely, a low inventory ratio may suggest overstocking, market or product deficiencies, or otherwise poorly managed inventory–signs that generally do not bode well for a company’s overall productivity and performance. 


   Example of DSI  

The leading retail corporation Walmart (WMT) had inventory worth $56.5 billion and cost of goods sold worth $429 billion for the fiscal year 2022. DSI is therefore:



DSI = (56.5/429) x 365= 48.1 days



While inventory value is available on the balance sheet of the company, the COGS value can be sourced from the annual financial statement. Care should be taken to include the sum total of all the categories of inventory which includes finished goods, work in progress, raw materials, and progress payments.



Since Walmart is a retailer, it does not have any raw material, works in progress, and progress payments. Its entire inventory is comprised of finished goods.




What Does a Low Days Sales of Inventory Indicate?
A low DSI suggests that a firm is able to efficiently convert its inventories into sales. This is considered to be beneficial to a company's margins and bottom line, and so a lower DSI is preferred to a higher one. A very low DSI, however, can indicate that a company does not have enough inventory stock to meet demand, which could be viewed as suboptimal.




How Do You Interpret Days Sales of Inventory?
DSI estimates how many days it takes on average to completely sell a company's current inventories.




What Is a Good Days Sale of Inventory Number?
In order to efficiently manage inventories and balance idle stock with being understocked, many experts agree that a good DSI is somewhere between 30 and 60 days. This, of course, will vary by industry, company size, and other factors.
What Is Days Sales Outstanding (DSO)?  

Days sales outstanding (DSO) is a measure of the average number of days that it takes a company to collect payment for a sale. DSO is often determined on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis.



To compute DSO, divide the average accounts receivable during a given period by the total value of credit sales during the same period, and then multiply the result by the number of days in the period being measured.



Days sales outstanding is an element of the cash conversion cycle and may also be referred to as days receivables or average collection period.





Key Takeaways

Days sales outstanding (DSO) is the average number of days it takes a company to receive payment for a sale.A high DSO number suggests that a company is experiencing delays in receiving payments, which can result in a cash flow problem.A low DSO indicates that the company is getting its payments quickly. That money can be put back into the business to good effect.Generally speaking, a DSO under 45 days is considered low.












Investopedia / Tara Anand


   Understanding Days Sales Outstanding (DSO)  

Given the vital importance of cash flow in running a business, it is in a company's best interest to collect its outstanding accounts receivables as quickly as possible. Companies can expect, with relative certainty, that they will be paid their outstanding receivables. But because of the time value of money principle, time spent waiting to be paid is money lost.



That said, the definition of "quickly" depends on the business. In the financial industry, relatively long payment terms are common. In the agriculture and fuel industries, fast payment can be crucial. In general, small businesses rely more heavily on steady cash flow than large, diversified companies.


















DSO


=



Accounts Receivable


Total Credit Sales



×


Number of Days







\begin{aligned}&\text{DSO} = \frac {\text{Accounts Receivable} }{ \text{Total Credit Sales} } \times \text{Number of Days}\\\end{aligned}


​DSO=Total Credit SalesAccounts Receivable​×Number of Days​






By quickly turning sales into cash, a company has a chance to put the cash to use again more quickly.


   What the Numbers Tell You  

A high DSO number shows that a company is selling its product to customers on credit and waiting a long time to collect the money. This can lead to cash flow problems. A low DSO value means that it takes a company fewer days to collect its accounts receivable. That company is promptly getting the money it needs to create new business.



In effect, determining the average length of time that a company’s outstanding balances are carried in receivables can reveal a great deal about the nature of the company’s cash flow.



It is important to remember that the formula for calculating DSO only accounts for credit sales. While cash sales may be considered to have a DSO of 0, they are not factored into DSO calculations. If they were factored into the calculation, they would decrease the DSO, and companies with a high proportion of cash sales would have lower DSOs than those with a high proportion of credit sales.


   Applications of Days Sales Outstanding  

Days sales outstanding can be analyzed in a wide variety of ways. It suggests how efficient the company's collections department is, and the degree to which the company is maintaining customer satisfaction. It also helps identify customers who are not creditworthy.



Looking at a DSO value for a company for a single period can provide a good benchmark for quickly assessing a company’s cash flow. However, trends in DSO over time are much more useful. They can act as an early warning sign of trouble.


   Good and Bad DSO Numbers  

If a company’s DSO is increasing, it's a warning sign that something is wrong. Customer satisfaction might be declining, or the salespeople may be offering longer terms of payment to drive increased sales. Perhaps the company may be allowing customers with poor credit to make purchases on credit.



A sharp increase in DSO can cause a company serious cash flow problems. If a company's ability to make its own payments in a timely fashion is disrupted, it may be forced to make drastic changes.





37.30

Average DSO for companies across various industries in the third quarter of 2022.



Generally, when looking at a given company’s cash flow, it is helpful to track that company’s DSO over time to determine if its DSO is trending up or down or if there are patterns in the company’s cash flow history.



DSO may vary consistently on a monthly basis, particularly if the company's product is seasonal. If a company has a volatile DSO, this may be cause for concern, but if its DSO regularly dips during a particular season each year, it could be no reason to worry.


   Limitations of Days Sales Outstanding  

As a metric attempting to gauge the efficiency of a business, days sales outstanding comes with a limitation that is important for any investor to consider.



When using DSO to compare the cash flows of a number of companies, you should compare companies within the same industry, with similar business models and revenue numbers. If you try to compare companies in different industries and of different sizes, the results you'll get will be misleading because they often have very different DSO benchmarks and targets.


  When DSO Is Not As Relevant  

DSO is not particularly useful in comparing companies with significant differences in the proportion of sales that are made on credit. The DSO of a company with a low proportion of credit sales does not indicate much about that company’s cash flow. Comparing such companies with those that have a high proportion of credit sales also says little.



In addition, DSO is not a perfect indicator of a company’s accounts receivable efficiency. Fluctuating sales volumes can affect DSO, with any increase in sales lowering the DSO value.



Delinquent Days Sales Outstanding (DDSO) is a good alternative for credit collection assessment or for use alongside DSO. Like any metric measuring a company’s performance, DSO should not be considered alone, but rather should be used with other metrics.




How Do You Calculate DSO?
Divide the total number of accounts receivable during a given period by the total dollar value of credit sales during the same period, then multiply the result by the number of days in the period being measured.




What Is a Good DSO Ratio?
A good or bad DSO ratio may vary according to the type of business and industry that the company operates in. That said, a number under 45 is considered to be good for most businesses. It suggests that the company's cash is flowing in at a reasonably efficient rate, ready to be used to generate new business.




How Do You Calculate DSO for 3 Months?
During the last three months of the year, Company A made a total of $1,500,000 in credit sales and had $1,050,000 in accounts receivable. The time period covers 92 days. Company A’s DSO for that period is calculated as follows:1,050,000 divided by 1,500,000 equals 0.7.0.7 multiplied by 92 equals 64.4.The DSO for this business in this period is 64.4.




Why Is DSO Important?
A high DSO number can indicate that the cash flow of the business is not ideal. It varies by business, but a number below 45 is considered good. It's best to track the number over time. If the number is climbing, there may be something wrong in the collections department, or the company may be selling to customers with less than optimal credit. In any case, the company's cash flow is at risk.The debt collections experts at Atradius suggest that tracking DSO over time also creates an incentive for the payments department to stay on top of unpaid invoices. Needless to say, a small business can use its days sales outstanding number to identify and flag customers that are weighing it down by not paying promptly.


   The Bottom Line  

In many businesses, the days sales outstanding number can be a valuable indicator of the efficiency of the business and the quality of its cash flow. If the number gets too high, it could even disrupt the normal operations of the business, causing its own outstanding payments to be delayed. In any case, cash delayed is cash lost to your business.
What Is Days Working Capital?  

Days working capital describes how many days it takes for a company to convert its working capital into revenue. The more days a company has of working capital, the more time it takes to convert that working capital into sales. The higher the days working capital number the less efficient a company is.





Key Takeaways

Days working capital describes how many days it takes for a company to convert its working capital into revenue.Companies that take fewer days to turn working capital into sales revenue are more efficient than companies that take more days to generate the same amount of revenue.If the days working capital number is decreasing, it might be due to an increase in sales.Conversely, if the days working capital number is high or increasing, it could mean that sales are decreasing or perhaps the company is taking longer to collect payment for its payables.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Days Working Capital  

Working capital, also known as net working capital, is the difference between a company’s current assets, like cash, accounts receivable, and inventories of raw materials and finished goods, and its current liabilities, like accounts payable and the current portion of debt due within one year.



The difference between current assets and current liabilities represents the company's short-term cash surplus or shortfall. A positive working capital balance means current assets cover current liabilities. Conversely, a negative working capital balance means current liabilities exceed current assets.



Working capital is a measure of both a company's operational efficiency and its short-term financial health. Although working capital is important, days working capital demonstrates how many days it takes to convert working capital into revenue.



The more days a company has of working capital, the more time it takes to convert that working capital into sales. In other words, a high value of days working capital number is indicative of an inefficient company.



While negative and positive working capital calculations provide a general overview of working capital, days working capital provides analysts with a numeric measure for comparison.



A low value for days working capital could mean a company is quickly using its working capital and converting into sales. If the days working capital number is decreasing, it might be due to an increase in sales.



Conversely, if the days working capital number is high or increasing, it could mean that sales are decreasing or perhaps the company is taking longer to collect payment for its payables.


   Days Working Capital Formula and Calculation  

﻿















DWC


=




Average working capital


×


 


365




Sales revenue


















where:
















Average working capital


=


Working capital averaged
















for a period of time
















Sales revenue


=


Income from sales








\begin{aligned} &\text{DWC} = \frac{ \text{Average working capital} \times\ \text{365} }{ \text{Sales revenue} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Average working capital} = \text{Working capital averaged} \\ &\text{for a period of time} \\ &\text{Sales revenue} = \text{Income from sales} \\ \end{aligned}


​DWC=Sales revenueAverage working capital× 365​where:Average working capital=Working capital averagedfor a period of timeSales revenue=Income from sales​﻿



Working capital is a measure of liquidity. Working capital is calculated by the following:



﻿















Working Capital


=


Current Assets


−


Current Liabilities
















where:
















Current assets


=


Assets converted to cash value
















within a normal operating cycle
















Current liabilities


=


Debts or obligations due within
















a normal operating cycle








\begin{aligned} &\text{Working Capital} = \text{Current Assets} - \text{Current Liabilities} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Current assets} = \text{Assets converted to cash value} \\ &\text{within a normal operating cycle} \\ &\text{Current liabilities} = \text{Debts or obligations due within} \\ &\text{a normal operating cycle} \\ \end{aligned}


​Working Capital=Current Assets−Current Liabilitieswhere:Current assets=Assets converted to cash valuewithin a normal operating cycleCurrent liabilities=Debts or obligations due withina normal operating cycle​﻿



Calculate the working capital for a company by subtracting current liabilities from current assets.
If you're calculating days working capital over a long period such as from one year to another, you can calculate the working capital at the beginning of the period and again at the end of the period and average the two results. You could also calculate the working capital for each quarter and take an average of the four quarters and plug the result into the formula as average working capital.
Multiply the average working capital by 365 or days in the year.
Divide the result by the sales or revenue for the period, which is found on the income statement. You can also take the average sales over multiple periods as well. It all depends on whether you're analyzing one period or multiple periods over time.


   Limitations of Days Working Capital  

As with any financial metric, days working capital does not tell investors whether the number of days is a good or poor number unless it's compared with companies in the same industry. Also, it's important to compare days working capital over multiple periods to see if there is a change or a trend.



Also, ratios can be skewed and produce murky results from time to time. If a company had a sudden surge in current assets in a period where liabilities and sales remained unchanged, the days working capital number would increase because the company's working capital would be higher.



No investor would argue that having extra cash on hand, or current assets, would be a bad thing. For this reason, taking the average working capital and average sales over multiple quarters gives investors the most complete and accurate picture.


   Example of Days Working Capital  

A company makes $10 million in sales and has current assets of $500,000 and current liabilities of $300,000 for the period.



The company's working capital would equal $200,000 or $500,000 - $300,000.The days working capital is calculated by ($200,000 (or working capital) x 365) / $10,000,000Days working capital = 7.3 days



However, if the company made $12 million in sales and working capital didn't change, days working capital would fall to 6.08 days, or ($200,000 (or working capital) x 365) / $12,000,000.



An increased level of sales, all other things equal, produces a lower number of days working capital because the company is converting working capital to more sales at a faster rate.



A company with a days working capital level of six takes twice as much time to turn working capital, such as inventory, into sales than a company with a days working capital of three for the same period.



In other words, a company with three days working capital is twice as efficient as a company with six days working capital. While the company with a higher ratio is generally the most inefficient, it is important to compare against other companies in the same industry, as different industries have different working capital standards.
The De Minimis Tax Rule: An Overview  

The de minimis tax rule sets the threshold at which a discount bond should be taxed as a capital gain rather than as ordinary income. The rule states that a discount that is less than a quarter-point per full year between its time of acquisition and its maturity is too small to be considered a market discount for tax purposes. Instead, the accretion from the purchase price to the par value should be treated as a capital gain, if it is held for more than one year.



De minimis is Latin for "about minimal things."


   De Minimis Tax Rule Explained  

Under the de minimis tax rule, if a municipal bond is purchased for a minimal discount, it is subject to capital gains tax rather than the (usually higher) ordinary income tax rate.





Key Takeaways

The de minimis tax rule defines when a municipal bond redemption is a capital gain rather than ordinary income.The cutoff for treatment as a capital gain is one-quarter point per full year between acquisition and maturity.The de minimis tax rule generally is relevant only in an environment of rising interest rates.



According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), a minimal discount–defined as an amount less than a quarter of a percent of the par value multiplied by the number of complete years between the purchase date of the bond and its maturity date–is too small to be considered a market discount for income tax purposes.


  How to Calculate De Minimis  

To determine whether a municipal bond is subject to the capital gains tax or ordinary income tax using the de minimis tax rule, multiply the face value by 0.25%, and multiply the result by the number of full years between the discounted bond's purchase date and the maturity date. Subtract the derived de minimis amount from the bond's par value.



If this amount is higher than the purchase price of the discount bond, the purchased bond is subject to the ordinary income tax rate. If the purchase price is above the de minimis threshold, capital gains tax is due.






"De minimis" means "about minimal things." An insignificant discount is not treated as a capital gain.



In other words, if the market discount is less than the de minimis amount, the discount on the bond is generally treated as a capital gain upon its sale or redemption rather than as ordinary income.


  Example of the De Minimis Rule  

Say you are looking at a 10-year municipal bond with a par value of 100 and five years left until maturity. The de minimis discount is 100 par value x 0.0025 x 5 years = 1.25.



You then subtract the 1.25 from the par value to get the de minimis cut-off amount, which in this example is 98.75 = 100 – 1.25. This is the lowest price at which the bond can be purchased for the IRS to treat the discount as a capital gain.



In this example, If the price of the discount bond you purchased is below 98.75 per 100 of par value you will be subject to ordinary income tax under the de minimis tax rule.



So, if you purchased this bond for $95, ordinary income tax will apply when the bond is redeemed at par, since $95 is less than $98.75.



Another way to look at it is the market discount of 100 – 95 = 5 is higher than the de minimis amount of 1.25. Therefore, the profit on the sale of the bond is income, not capital gains.



A basic bond pricing principle is that when interest rates rise, bond prices fall, and vice versa. The de minimis tax rule typically applies in an environment of rising interest rates. During such periods, the price of bonds falls and they are offered at discounts or deep discounts to par.
What Is a Dead Cat Bounce?  

A dead cat bounce is a temporary, short-lived recovery of asset prices from a prolonged decline or a bear market that is followed by the continuation of the downtrend. Frequently, downtrends are interrupted by brief periods of recovery—or small rallies—during which prices temporarily rise.



The name "dead cat bounce" is based on the notion that even a dead cat will bounce if it falls far enough and fast enough. It is an example of a sucker's rally.





Key Takeaways

A dead cat bounce is a short-lived and often sharp rally that occurs within a secular downtrend.It is a rally that is unsupported by fundamentals that is reversed by price movement to the downside.In technical analysis, a dead cat bounce is considered to be a continuation pattern.At first, the bounce may appear to be a reversal of the prevailing trend, but it is quickly followed by a continuation of the downward price move. Dead cat bounce patterns are usually only realized after the fact and are difficult to identify in real-time.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   What Does a Dead Cat Bounce Tell You?  

A dead cat bounce is a price pattern used by technical analysts. It is considered a continuation pattern, where at first the bounce may appear to be a reversal of the prevailing trend, but it is quickly followed by a continuation of the downward price move. It becomes a dead cat bounce (and not a reversal) after the price drops below its prior low.



Frequently, downtrends are interrupted by brief periods of recovery, or small rallies, when prices temporarily rise. This can be a result of traders or investors closing out short positions or buying on the assumption that the security has reached a bottom.



A dead cat bounce is a price pattern that is usually recognized in hindsight. Analysts may attempt to predict that the recovery will be only temporary by using certain technical and fundamental analysis tools. A dead cat bounce can be seen in the broader economy, such as during the depths of a recession, or it can be seen in the price of an individual stock or group of stocks.






Short-term traders may attempt to profit from the small rally, and traders and investors might try to use the temporary reversal as a good opportunity to initiate a short position.



Similar to identifying a market peak or trough, recognizing a dead cat bounce ahead of time is fraught with difficulty, even for skilled investors. In March 2009, for example, economist Nouriel Roubini of New York University referred to the incipient stock market recovery as a dead cat bounce, predicting that the market would reverse course in short order and plummet to new lows. Instead, March 2009 marked the beginning of a protracted bull market, eventually surpassing its pre-recession high.















TradingView.


   Examples of a Dead Cat Bounce  

Let's consider a historical example. Stock prices for Cisco Systems peaked at $82 per share in March 2000 before falling to $15.81 in March 2001 amid the dot-com collapse. Cisco saw many dead cat bounces in the ensuing years. The stock recovered to $20.44 by November 2001, only to fall to $10.48 by September 2002. Fast forward to June 2016 and Cisco traded at $28.47 per share, barely one-third of its peak price during the tech bubble in 2000.



A more recent example is the price action in the market following the onset of the global COVID-19 pandemic in the Spring of 2020. Between the week of Feb. 21 and Feb. 28 2020, U.S. markets lost around 12% as headlines began to hit and panic set in. The next week the market rose 2%, giving some people the impression that the worst was over. But this was a classic dead cat bounce, as the market subsequently fell an additional 25% over the next two weeks. Only later, during the summer of 2020, did markets recover.


   Limitations in Identifying a Dead Cat Bounce  

As mentioned above, most of the time a dead cat bounce can only be identified after the fact. This means that traders that notice a rally after a steep decline may think it is a dead cat bounce when in reality it is a trend reversal signaling a prolonged upswing.



How can investors determine whether a current upward movement is a dead cat bounce or a market reversal? If we could answer this correctly all the time, we'd be able to make a lot of money. The fact is that there is no simple answer to spotting a market bottom.




How Long Can a Dead Cat Bounce Last?
A dead cat bounce typically lasts only a few days, although it can sometimes extend over a period of a few months.




What Causes a Dead Cat Bounce?
Reasons for a dead cat bounce include a clearing of short positions, investors incorrectly believing the bottom has been reached, or from investors trying to find oversold assets. Ultimately, the dead cat bounce is not founded on fundamentals and so the market continues to decline soon after.




What Is the Opposite of a Dead Cat Bounce?
An inverted dead cat bounce is a temporary and often severe sell-off during an otherwise secular bull market. It has many of the characteristics of a dead cat bounce, but in reverse.


   The Bottom Line  

When markets drop, a relief rally may cause investors to think that the worst is over. However, it could just be a dead cat bounce: a sharp bull run in an otherwise secular bear market. Those that get caught by a dead cat bounce can experience losses as timing market bottoms is extremally difficult and risky.
What Is a Deadweight Loss Of Taxation?  

The term deadweight loss of taxation refers to the measurement of loss caused by the imposition of a new tax. This results from a new tax that is more than what is normally paid to the government's taxing authority. This theory suggests that imposing a new tax or raising an old one can backfire, resulting in insufficient or no gains in government revenues due to the decline in demand for the goods or services being taxed. A deadweight loss, therefore, disrupts the balance between supply and demand. English economist Alfred Marshall is widely credited as the originator of deadweight loss analysis.





Key Takeaways

Deadweight loss of taxation measures the overall economic loss caused by a new tax on a product or service.It analyses the decrease in production and the decline in demand caused by the imposition of a tax.It is a lost opportunity cost.


   Understanding Deadweight Loss of Taxation  

Governments impose taxes to collect revenues. These funds are used to support public programs and projects, such as infrastructure, economic aid, and social services. Federal, state, and local governments frequently decide to raise taxes in order to raise revenues to cover shortfalls. Although this action may seem like a good idea, it often has the opposite effect. This is called a deadweight loss of taxation or, simply, a deadweight loss.



Here's how it works. When the government raises taxes on certain goods and services, it collects that tax as additional revenue. Taxes, though, result in a higher cost of production and a higher purchase price for the consumer. This, in turn, causes production volumes (and, therefore, supply) to drop, leading to a drop in demand for these goods and services. This gap between the taxed and tax-free production volumes is the deadweight loss. 



This theory was developed by Alfred Marshall, an economist who specialized in microeconomics. According to Marshall, supply and demand are directly related to production and cost. These points intersect in the middle. So, when one changes, it throws off the balance.



Although there isn't a consensus among experts about whether deadweight loss can be accurately measured, many economists agree that taxation can often be counter-productive. This makes a deadweight loss of taxation a lost opportunity cost.






Deadweight loss of taxation may be viewed as the overall reduction in demand and the subsequent decline in production levels that follow the imposition of a tax, which is usually represented graphically.


   Special Considerations  

Taxation reduces the returns from investments, wages, rents, and entrepreneurship. This, in turn, reduces the incentive to invest, work, deploy property, and take risks. But it also encourages taxpayers to spend time and money trying to avoid their tax burden, diverting valuable resources from other productive uses.



Most governments levy taxes disproportionately on different people, goods, services, and activities. This distorts the natural market distribution of resources. The limited resources will move from their otherwise optimal use, away from heavily taxed activities and into lightly taxed activities, which may not be advantageous to all.


  Deadweight Loss of Deficit Spending and Inflation  

The economics of taxation also apply to other forms of government financing. If a government finances activities through bonds rather than taxation, deadweight loss is only delayed. Higher future taxes must be levied to pay off the bond debt.



The deadweight loss of inflation is nuanced. Inflation reduces the economy’s production volume in three ways:



Individuals divert resources towards counter-inflationary activities.
Governments engage in more spending and deficit financing becomes a hidden tax.
Expectations of future inflation reduce present private expenditures.






Deficit spending means borrowing, which only delays deadweight loss of taxation to some future date when the debt must be repaid.


   Example of Deadweight Loss of Taxation  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how the deadweight loss of taxation works. Let's say the mythical city-state of Braavos imposes a flat 40% income tax on all of its citizens. The government stands to collect an additional $1.2 trillion a year through this new tax.



That big chunk of money, which is now going to the government of Braavos, is no longer available for spending on consumer goods and services, or for consumer savings and investment.



Suppose consumer spending and investments decline at least $1.2 trillion, and total economic output declines by $2 trillion. In this case, the deadweight loss is $800 billion—the $2 trillion total output less $1.2 trillion consumer spending or investing equals a deadweight loss of $800 billion.
What Is Deadweight Loss?  

A deadweight loss is a cost to society created by market inefficiency, which occurs when supply and demand are out of equilibrium. Mainly used in economics, deadweight loss can be applied to any deficiency caused by an inefficient allocation of resources.



Price ceilings, such as price controls and rent controls; price floors, such as minimum wage and living wage laws; and taxation can all potentially create deadweight losses. With a reduced level of trade, the allocation of resources in a society may also become inefficient.





Key Takeaways


When supply and demand are out of equilibrium, creating a market inefficiency, a deadweight loss is created.
Deadweight losses primarily arise from an inefficient allocation of resources, created by various interventions, such as price ceilings, price floors, monopolies, and taxes.
These factors lead to the price of a product not being accurately reflected, meaning goods are either overvalued or undervalued.
If the price of a product is not reflected accurately, this leads to changes in consumer and producer behavior, which usually has a negative impact on the economy.













Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   Understanding Deadweight Loss  

A deadweight loss occurs when supply and demand are not in equilibrium, which leads to market inefficiency. Market inefficiency occurs when goods within the market are either overvalued or undervalued. While certain members of society may benefit from the imbalance, others will be negatively impacted by a shift from equilibrium.





Important

When consumers do not feel the price of a good or service is justified when compared to the perceived utility, they are less likely to purchase the item.



For example, overvalued prices may lead to higher profit margins for a company, but it negatively affects consumers of the product. For inelastic goods—meaning demand does not change for that particular good or service when the price goes up or down—the increased cost may prevent consumers from making purchases in other market sectors. In addition, some consumers may purchase a lower quantity of the item when possible.



For elastic goods—meaning sellers and buyers quickly adjust their demand for that good or service if the price changes—consumers may reduce spending in that market sector to compensate or be priced out of the market entirely.



Undervalued products may be desirable for consumers but may prevent a producer from recuperating their production costs. If the product remains undervalued for a substantial period, producers will either choose to no longer sell that product, up the price to equilibrium, or may be forced out of the market entirely.





The Case of Land, Properties, and Rent

Land has a near-static supply; therefore, the margin between natural monopoly pricing and rent caps creating deadweight loss is minimal or often non-existent in well developed property markets. In the case of rent, consumers bear most of the deadweight loss from natural monopolies. In cities introducing rent caps, and a goal for economists is to calculate caps that aren't set too low and lead to minimum consumer-producer losses so producers are still willing to invest.


   How Deadweight Loss Is Created  

Minimum wage and living wage laws can create a deadweight loss by causing employers to overpay for employees and preventing low-skilled workers from securing jobs. Price ceilings and rent controls can also create deadweight loss by discouraging production and decreasing the supply of goods, services, or housing below what consumers truly demand. Consumers experience shortages and producers earn less than they would otherwise.



Taxes also create a deadweight loss because they prevent people from engaging in purchases they would otherwise make because the final price of the product is above the equilibrium market price. If taxes on an item rise, the burden is often split between the producer and the consumer, leading to the producer receiving less profit from the item and the customer paying a higher price. This results in lower consumption of the item than previously, which reduces the overall benefits the consumer market could have received while simultaneously reducing the benefit the company may see in regard to profits.



Monopolies and oligopolies also lead to deadweight loss as they remove the aspects of a perfect market, in which fair competition accurately sets a price. Monopolies and oligopolies can control supply for a specific good or service, thereby falsely increasing its price. This would eventually lead to a lower amount of goods and services sold.


   Example of Deadweight Loss  

A new sandwich shop opens in your neighborhood selling a sandwich for $10. You perceive the value of this sandwich to be $12 and, therefore, are happy to pay $10 for it. Now, assume the government imposes a new sales tax on food items which raises the cost of the sandwich to $15. At $15, you feel that the sandwich is overvalued and believe that the new cost is not a fair price and, therefore, are not willing to buy the sandwich at $15.



Many consumers, but not all, feel this way about the sandwich and the sandwich shop sees a decrease in demand for its sandwich and a decline in revenues. The deadweight loss in this example is the unsold sandwiches as a result of the new $15 cost. If the decrease in demand is severe enough, the sandwich shop could go out of business, further increasing the negative economic effects of the new tax.
What Is a Dealer?  

Dealers are people or firms who buy and sell securities for their own account, whether through a broker or otherwise. A dealer acts as a principal in trading for its own account, as opposed to a broker who acts as an agent who executes orders on behalf of its clients.



Dealers are important figures in the market. They make markets in securities, underwrite securities, and provide investment services to investors. That means dealers are the market makers who provide the bid and ask quotes you see when you look up the price of a security in the over-the-counter market. They also help create liquidity in the markets and boost long-term growth.



While dealers are in a separate registration category in the U.S., the term is used in Canada as the shortened version of “investment dealer"—the equivalent of a broker-dealer in the U.S.





Key Takeaways

Dealers buy and sell securities for their own account.Dealers are important figures in the market because they are market makers, create liquidity, and help promote long-term growth in the market.Dealers must be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and must comply with all state requirements before they can begin working.Dealers are different from traders and brokers—the former buys and sells for one's own account, while the latter does not trade for its portfolio.Dealers are regulated by the SEC.


   Understanding Dealers  

A dealer in the securities market is an individual or firm who stands ready and willing to buy a security for its own account (at its bid price) or sell from its own account (at its ask price). A dealer seeks to profit from the spread between the bid and ask prices, while also adding liquidity to the market. It neither does business on behalf of a client nor facilitates transactions between parties.






Entities that arrange trades between security buyers and sellers—but do not purchase and hold securities in their own account—are not classified as dealers.



A dealer is different from a trader. While a dealer buys and sells securities as part of its regular business, a trader buys and sells securities for their own account—not on a business basis.



In recent years, the profitability of dealers has been challenged by a number of factors, including increased technology requirements to keep up with rapidly changing markets, industry consolidation, and the heightened regulatory environment, which has increased compliance costs.


   Regulating Dealers  

Dealers are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). As part of the regulation, all dealers and brokers must register with the SEC and must be members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).



Anyone engaged in the following activities generally needs to register as a dealer:



Someone who holds himself/herself out as being willing to buy and sell a specific security on a continuous basis (i.e., is making a market in that security.)
A person who runs a matched book of repurchase agreements.
An individual who issues or originates securities that they also buy and sell.


  Requirements of Dealers  

Under SEC guidelines, dealers are required to perform certain duties when they deal with clients. These duties include prompt order execution, disclosure of material information and conflicts of interest to investors, and charging reasonable prices in the prevailing market.



Dealers are not allowed to begin conducting business until the SEC has granted registration. They must also join a self-regulatory organization (SRO), become a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), and comply with all state requirements.


   Dealers vs. Brokers  

These are two roles that are generally associated with the buying and selling of securities. Although they may function in a similar capacity, they do have distinctions between them.



Contrary to a dealer, a broker does not trade for its portfolio but instead facilitates transactions by bringing buyers and sellers together. In practice, most dealers also act as brokers and are known as broker-dealers. Broker-dealers range in size from small independent houses to subsidiaries of some of the largest banks. Firms operating as broker-dealers perform both services depending on the market conditions and on the size, type, and security involved in a particular transaction.



Another key difference between the two is how they charge for their services. A dealer will charge a markup when selling from their own inventory because the dealer is principal in the account, while a broker charges clients a commission for executing trades on their behalf.






Dealers are also different from registered investment advisors (RIAs), who are required to put their clients' interests above their own. This standard is referred to as the fiduciary standard.


   Dealer Markets  

The environment in which multiple dealers come together to buy and sell securities for their own accounts is called a dealer market. In this market, dealers can deal with each other and use their own funds to close the transaction—as opposed to a broker's market, wherein they work as agents of buyers and sellers. Brokers are not permitted to trade in a dealer market. Dealers provide all the terms of the transaction including price.


   Other Dealers in the Market  

While the term dealer is used predominantly in the securities market, there are others who use this distinction. Dealers can also refer to a business or person who trades in or executes the purchase or sale of a specific product or service. For example, someone who sells automobiles is called a car dealer, while a person who deals in the sale of antiquities is called an antique dealer.


   Dealer FAQs  
  How Do Dealers Make Profits in a Dealer Market?  

After buying securities, such as stock and bonds, dealers sell those securities to other investors at a price higher than the buying price. The difference between their buying price (bid price) and their selling price (ask price) is known as the dealer's spread. The dealer's spread equals the profit that the dealer makes on the transactions.


  How Do You Open an Account With a Broker-Dealer?  

When you open an account with a broker-dealer, will be required to provide certain types of information.



Before opening an account with anyone, you should check the broker's background and disciplinary history. The SEC's website provides guidance for finding a broker's background or disciplinary history.



Broker's will generally ask for this personal information from their customers:



Your nameSocial security number (or taxpayer identification number)AddressTelephone numberE-mail addressDate of birthDriver's license, passport information, or information from other government-issued identificationEmployment status and occupationWhether you are employed by a brokerage firmAnnual incomeNet worthInvestment objectives and risk tolerance



You will also need to decide what type of brokerage account you want to open. Broker-dealers usually offer two types of accounts: a cash account and a margin account.



Finally, you will need to make some investment decisions for your account. You also have the option of granting "discretionary authority" to someone else to make decisions for you on your account.


  What Companies Are Dealers?  

There are over 3,400 securities firms, according to FINRA. Some of the largest broker-dealers include Fidelity Investments, Charles Schwab, and Edward Jones.


  What Companies Are Broker-Dealers?  

Broker-dealers can be either individual or a firm (a general partnership, a limited partnership, limited liability company, corporation, or other entity). There are more than 3,400 broker-dealers from which to choose, according to the most recent data from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).


   The Bottom Line  

Dealers are people or firms who buy and sell securities for their own account, whether through a broker or otherwise. Dealers are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Dealers are important because they make markets in securities, underwrite securities, and provide investment services to investors.
What Is a Dealer Market?  

A dealer market is a financial market mechanism wherein multiple dealers post prices at which they will buy or sell a specific security or instrument. In a dealer market, a dealer (who is designated as a “market maker”) provides liquidity and transparency by electronically displaying the prices at which it is willing to make a market in a security, indicating both the price at which it will buy the security (the “bid” price) and the price at which it will sell the security (the “offer” price).



Bonds and foreign exchanges trade primarily in dealer markets, and stock trading on the Nasdaq is a prime example of an equity dealer market.





Key Takeaways

A dealer market is a transparent financial market mechanism in which multiple dealers post the prices they are willing to buy or sell a specific security.Bonds and foreign exchanges trade primarily in dealer markets.Some stock exchanges like the Nasdaq operate as equity dealer markets.Notably, dealer markets stake the capital of a dealer to provide liquidity to investors and remove the middle man, the broker, from transactions.Dealer markets can be contrasted with auction markets and brokered markets.


   How Dealer Markets Work  

A market maker (MM) in a dealer market stakes his or her own capital to provide liquidity to investors. The primary mode of risk control for the market maker is, therefore, the use of the bid-ask spread, which represents a tangible cost to investors, but which is also a source of profit to dealers.



A dealer market differs from an auction market primarily in this multiple market maker aspect. In an auction market, a single specialist in a centralized location (think of the trading floor on the New York Stock Exchange, for instance) facilitates trading and liquidity by matching buyers and sellers for a specific security.


   Dealer Markets vs. Broker Markets  

In a broker market, there must be a defined buyer and seller for a trade to happen. In a dealer market, buyers and sellers execute buy/sell orders separately and independently through dealers, who act as market makers. The differences between broker and dealer markets also include:



Brokers execute a trade on behalf of others, while dealers execute trades on their own behalf.Brokers buy and sell securities for their clients, but dealers buy and sell on their own accounts.Brokers don't have the rights and freedoms to buy or sell securities, but dealers have all those rights to buy and sell.Brokers get commissions for transacting business, but dealers do not get commissions since they are primary principals.


   Example of a Dealer Market  

For example, if Dealer A has ample inventory of WiseWidget Co. stock – which is quoted on the Nasdaq market along with other market makers at a national best bid and offer (NBBO) of $10 / $10.05.



Say that Dealer A wishes to offload some of its holdings, so it posts its own bid-ask quote as $9.95 / $10.03, skewing it lower since they have an axe to sell.



Investors looking to buy WiseWidget Co. would then take Dealer A’s offer price of $10.03 since it is two cents cheaper than the $10.05 price at which it is offered by other market makers. At the same time, investors looking to sell WiseWidget Co. stock would have little incentive to “hit the bid” of $9.95 posted by Dealer A, since it is 2 cents less than the $10 price that other dealers are willing to pay for the stock.




What Is the Difference Between a Trader and a Dealer?
A dealer is a specialized type of trader who commits to continuously make two-sided markets in the securities that they deal in. This means that they will always be posting both a bid and an offer. The goal is to trade frequently enough with both buyers and sellers in the market to generate profit from the bid-ask spread.Traders, on the other hand, need not make two-sided markets and can buy or sell as they please. In this respect, non-dealer traders are considered to be price takers (instead of market makers). Traders do not profit from the bid-ask spread, but instead hope for the market to move in their favor in order to exit the trade at a favorable price later on.




What Are the Types of Securities Dealers?
In today's financial markets, broker-dealers (BDs) are regulated entities that can engage in securities trading for both their own accounts and on behalf of clients. Some broker-dealers act as agent (pure broker), facilitating trades only on behalf of customers and taking a commission. Others act as both principal and agent, trading against customers from their own accounts.There are thousands of broker-dealers falling into one of two broad categories: a wirehouse, which sells its own products, or an independent broker-dealer, which sells products from outside sources




Is Robinhood a Dealer Market?
No. Robinhood, like other online trading platforms, is a broker. As a broker, it is registered as a broker-dealer with FINRA, but it executes trades only on behalf of customers and does not take the other side of those trades. Nor does not constitute its own marketplace or exchange.
A death benefit is a payout to the beneficiary of a life insurance policy, annuity, or pension when the insured person or annuitant dies. With life insurance policies, death benefits are not usually subject to income tax and named beneficiaries typically receive the death benefit as a lump-sum payment.





Key Takeaways


A death benefit is a payout to the beneficiary of a life insurance policy, annuity, or pension when the insured person or annuitant dies.
Beneficiaries must submit proof of death and proof of the deceased’s coverage to the insurer to receive the benefit.
Death benefits from life insurance policies are not subject to ordinary income tax. 
Beneficiaries may have the option of taking a death benefit in installments or as a lump sum.



   What Is a Death Benefit?  

A death benefit is a payment made to a beneficiary of a contract such as a life insurance policy after the insured person dies. It may also be paid as a result of an annuity or pension.



With life insurance, the amount of the death benefit is set in the terms of the contract and is chosen by the policyholder, who makes regular premium payments. The amount of the premium payments will increase as the amount of the death benefit increases. Generally, the younger and healthier you are, the lower your premiums. 






Buying a life insurance policy with a death benefit can provide peace of mind that your loved ones will receive financial support after your death.


   Types of Death Benefits  

Types of death benefits with insurance policies include all-cause death benefits, accidental death benefits (ADB), and accidental death and dismemberment benefits (ADDB). Let’s look at each type of death benefit in more detail.



All-cause death benefit: A death benefit from a standard life insurance policy is paid for all causes of death except for those specifically excluded in the policy.  
Accidental death benefits (ADB): An accidental death benefit is payment typically made as a result of a death included in a rider added to an insurance policy.
Accidental death and dismemberment benefits (ADDB): Accidental death and dismemberment policies are usually added to life insurance as a rider. Death benefits are payments made for deaths from covered accidents. These policies also include accidental dismemberments, or the loss of body parts or functions. Many different insurance companies can help you add these benefits to a policy.


   How Death Benefits Work  

Under the contract with the insurance company or other company, a death is guaranteed to be paid to the listed beneficiary or beneficiaries, as long as premiums are paid while the insured or annuitant is alive.



Death benefits of life insurance policies are commonly issued as a lump-sum payment in the full amount of the benefit. Another option that beneficiaries may have is to accept the death benefit in installments, such as quarterly or monthly, in a fixed amount until the proceeds are depleted or for a set period of time. 



Beneficiaries may also have the option of receiving an annuity that makes payments in installments for life in an amount determined by the insurer. Or they may opt to take only interest payments and then eventually pass on the proceeds to another beneficiary. 






Some insurers offer a retained asset account in which the insurance company acts as a bank holding the proceeds and the beneficiary can make withdrawals.



For an insurer to issue a death benefit, it will likely require a completed claim form along with copies of the contract and a death certificate.



Proceeds paid through life insurance or annuity death benefits avoid probate, which can provide the benefit faster. Probate is a legal process in which a will is reviewed to determine if it’s valid. However, for most policies and accounts, if the policyholder does not name a beneficiary, the insurer pays the proceeds to the estate of the insured, which may be probated.


  Taxation  

Death benefits from life insurance policies are generally not subject to ordinary income tax, while annuity beneficiaries may pay income tax on death benefits. Death benefits from retirement accounts are treated differently from benefits from life insurance policies, and they may be subject to taxation.






While life insurance death benefits paid in a lump sum are not subject to ordinary income tax, if the beneficiary receives the death benefit in installments that include interest, then the interest will be taxable. And if the death benefit goes to your estate, it may be subject to federal or state estate tax if the estate exceeds the estate tax exemption amount.


   Requirements for Payout of Death Benefits  

The process of receiving a death benefit from a life insurance policy, pension, or annuity is straightforward.



First, beneficiaries need to know which life insurance company holds the deceased’s policy or annuity. The policyholder has a responsibility to share policy or annuity information with beneficiaries when they name them as beneficiaries.



Once the insurance company is identified, beneficiaries must complete a death claim form, providing the insured’s policy number, name, Social Security number, date of death, and payment preferences for the death benefit proceeds.



Beneficiaries must submit death claim forms to each insurance company with which the insured or annuitant carried a policy, along with a copy of the death certificate. Most insurers require a certified death certificate listing the cause of death. If multiple beneficiaries or survivors are listed on a policy or annuity, each one must complete a death claim form.




What are the tax implications of death benefits?
Death benefits under a life insurance policy are not subject to ordinary income tax, but they may be subject to federal or state estate tax if the death benefit is paid to the estate and exceeds the estate tax exemption limit. Beneficiaries of an annuity with a death benefit may pay income tax on the payments.




What if you think you’re a beneficiary of a death benefit?
Try to find out from the policyholder whether or not you’re named as a beneficiary—don’t rely on the insurance company to tell you. You can request information from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ Life Insurance Policy Locator Service about whether you are a beneficiary on a life insurance policy. To claim a benefit, beneficiaries must submit death claim forms with a copy of a death certificate to insurers.




How does the death benefit work on an annuity?
Some annuity contracts allow you to name a beneficiary to inherit remaining annuity payments. Typically, a beneficiary reports annuity income as the plan participant would have included it as gross income, but they may exclude an amount equal to the deceased employee’s payments toward the contract.


   The Bottom Line  

Death benefits are designed to provide funds to beneficiaries so they can receive financial support following the death of the insured. A death benefit can help offset the expenses of funeral services or provide money for necessary life expenses, among other purposes.



If you are naming beneficiaries in a contract or inheriting a death benefit, consider consulting a financial professional to guide you through your options for your specific situation.
What Is a Death Cross?  

The "death cross" is a market chart pattern reflecting recent price weakness. It refers to the drop of a short-term moving average—meaning the average of recent closing prices for a stock, stock index, commodity or cryptocurrency over a set period of time—below a longer-term moving average. The most closely watched stock-market moving averages are the 50-day and the 200-day.



Despite its ominous name, the death cross is not a market milestone worth dreading. Market history suggests it tends to precede a near-term rebound with above-average returns.





Key Takeaways

The death cross appears on a chart when a stock’s short-term moving average, usually the 50-day, crosses below its long-term moving average, usually the 200-day.Despite the dramatic name, the death cross has been followed by above-average short-term returns in recent yearsThe rise of the 50-day moving average above the 200-day moving average is known as a golden cross, and can signal the exhaustion of downward market momentum.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   What Does the Death Cross Tell You?  

The death cross only tells you that price action has deteriorated over a period a little longer than two months, if the crossing is done by the 50-day moving average. (Moving averages exclude weekends and holidays when the market is closed.)



Those convinced of the pattern's predictive power note the death cross preceded all the severe bear markets of the past century, including 1929, 1938, 1974, and 2008. That's an example of sample selection bias, expressed by using only the select data points helpful to the argued point. Cherry picking those bear-market years ignores the many more numerous occasions when the death cross signaled nothing worse than a market correction.



According to Fundstrat research cited in Barron's, the S&P 500 index was higher a year after the death cross about two thirds of the time, averaging a gain of 6.3% over that span. That's well off the annualized gain of over 10% for the S&P 500 since 1926, but hardly a disaster in most instances.



The track record of the death cross as a precursor of market gains is even more appealing over shorter time frames. Since 1971, the 22 instances in which the 50-day moving average of the Nasdaq Composite index fell below its 200-day moving average were followed by average returns of about 2.6% over the next month, 7.2% in three months and 12.4% six months after the death cross, roughly double the typical Nasdaq return over those time frames, according to Nautilus Research. The 23rd such occasion occurred in February 2022.



Other recent surveys of returns following a death cross have also found a positive correlation with outperformance.



Intuitively, the death cross has tended to provide a more useful bearish market timing signal when occurring after market losses of 20% or more, because downward momentum in weak markets can indicate deteriorating fundamentals. But its historical track record makes clear the death cross is a coincident indicator of market weakness rather than a leading one.






   Example of a Death Cross  

Here is an example of a death cross on the S&P 500 in December of 2018:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



It led to headlines describing "a stock market in tatters." The index proceeded to lose another 11% over the next two weeks and a day, The S&P then rallied 19% from that low in two months, and was 11% above its level at the time of the death cross less than six months later.



Another S&P 500 death cross took place in March 2020 during the initial COVID-19 panic, and the S&P 500 went on to gain just over 50% in the next year.



These examples don't represent the full range of possible outcomes after a death cross, of course. But they are at the very least more representative of current market conditions than earlier death cross occurrences.


   Death Cross vs. Golden Cross  

The opposite of the death cross is the so-called golden cross, when the short-term moving average of a stock or index moves above its longer-term moving average. Many investors view this pattern as a bullish indicator, even though the death cross was typically followed by the bigger gains in recent years.



The golden cross can indicate a prolonged downtrend has run out of momentum.


   Limitations of Using the Death Cross  

If market signals as simple as the interaction between the 50-day and the 200-day moving averages had predictive value, you would expect them to lose it quickly as market participants tried to take advantage. The death cross makes for snappy headlines but in recent years it has been a better signal of a short-term bottom in sentiment than of an onset of a bear market or recession.
What Are Death Taxes?  

Death taxes are taxes imposed by the federal and some state governments on someone's estate upon their death. These taxes are levied on the beneficiary who receives the property in the deceased's will or the estate which pays the tax before transferring the inherited property.



Death taxes are also called death duties, estate taxes, or inheritance taxes.





Key Takeaways

Death taxes are taxes on a deceased's estate imposed by a government.Death tax is another term for estate and inheritance taxes.Death taxes generally only apply to estates and inheritances over a specific value. In 2023, an estate must have assets of over $12.92 million to be subject to federal taxes. In 2022, the number was $12.06 million.


   Understanding Death Taxes  

A death tax can be any tax imposed on property transfer after someone's death. The term “death tax” gained popularity in the 1990s and was used to describe estate and inheritance taxes by those who wanted the taxes repealed. In estate taxes, the deceased’s estate pays the tax before the assets are transferred to a beneficiary. With the inheritance tax, the person who inherits the assets pays.



The estate tax, charged by the federal government and some state governments, is based on the value of property and assets at the time of the owner's death. The federal estate tax ranges from 18% to 40% of the inheritance amount



Twelve states impose a state estate tax separate from the federal government. These states are Connecticut, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington, and the District of Columbia.



The federal government does not impose an inheritance tax, but several states do—Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Nebraska, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania; however, in all of these states, property passing to a surviving spouse is exempt from inheritance taxes. Nebraska and Pennsylvania impose taxes on property passing to a child or grandchild in some instances.


   Death Tax Thresholds  

Most people end up not paying the death tax because it applies to only a few people. This is because the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act applied the estate tax to the basic exclusion amount, which in 2022 is $12.06 million and in 2023 is $12.92 million.






The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act expires after 2025. The basic exclusion amount is set to drop back down to pre-TCJA levels if Congress doesn't renew the act.



For example, assume an individual leaves an estate valued at $12.8 million (accounted for inflation) in non-exempt assets to the children and has never left any gifts that exceeded the exclusion amount. The amount above the federal level in 2022 ($12.8 million – $12.06 million), $740,000, will be subject to estate tax. According to the Unified Rate Schedule, the taxable amount is subject to a 37% tax plus a base tax of $155,800. Therefore, the estate will have a death tax liability of (37% x $740,000) + $155,800 = $429,600.



So, if a decedent's estate is valued at less than the applicable exemption amount for the year of death, the estate won't owe any federal estate taxes.


  Unified Tax Credit  

The unified tax credit has a set amount that an individual can gift during their lifetime before any death taxes or gift taxes apply. The tax credit unifies both the gift and estate taxes into one tax system, decreasing the tax bill of the individual or estate, dollar to dollar.



Since some people prefer to use the unified tax credits to save on estate taxes after their deaths, the unified tax credit may not be used for reducing gift taxes while still alive. It may instead be used on the inheritance amount bequeathed to beneficiaries after death.


  Unlimited Marital Deduction  

Another provision available to reduce death tax is the unlimited marital deduction, which allows an individual to transfer an unrestricted amount of assets to their spouse at any time, including at the death of the transferor, free from tax.



The provision eliminates both the federal estate and gift tax on property transfers between spouses, in effect treating them as one economic unit. The transfer to surviving spouses is made possible through an unlimited deduction from estate and gift tax that postpones the transfer taxes on the property inherited from each other until the second spouse’s death.






The unlimited marital deduction allows married couples to delay the payment of estate taxes upon the death of the first spouse because after the surviving spouse dies, all assets in the estate over the applicable exclusion amount will be included in the survivor’s taxable estate unless the assets are used up or gifted during the surviving spouse's lifetime.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Death Taxes  



Advantages

High threshold
High tax revenue



Disadvantages

Double taxes
Loopholes





  Advantages Explained  

High threshold: The death tax is triggered when estates are valued at more than $12.06 million in 2022 and $12.92 million in 2023, so only the very wealthy need to be concerned about it.High tax revenue: In 2020, tax revenues to the government from federal estate and gift taxes equaled $17.6 billion, with projections increasing to nearly $50 billion by 2031.


  Disadvantages Explained  

Double taxes: Those whose estates are large enough to trigger death taxes will be taxed twice—once with income taxes and once with the estate tax.Loopholes: There are ways to avoid paying estate taxes, so it is natural for those who have the assets to use these loopholes to avoid paying them.


   How to Reduce or Avoid Death Taxes  

Most people will not need to worry about death taxes because not many have more than $12 million in assets. This number may drop after 2025 if Congress doesn't renew the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, but the figure could still be $5 million or more—more than most people have.



If you do happen or expect to have enough assets to trigger death taxes, there are some things you can do to reduce or avoid them:



Create an irrevocable trust: You may be able to place your assets in an irrevocable trust to shield them from estate taxes. You could then have the trust distribute the funds to you and your beneficiaries as income, reducing your tax burden. The most common trust used in this tactic is a grantor retained annuity trust (GRAT).
Give your assets to family and friends: You can give them away to relatives and friends tax-free as long as you don't exceed the lifetime exclusion limit of $12.06 million ($24.12 million if you and your spouse give them away) in 2022 and $12.92 million ($25.84 million if you and your spouse give them away) in 2023.
Enjoy your money: The best way to avoid estate taxes is to ensure you give enough away so that your family won't struggle, then go out and enjoy the money you've worked hard for.
Charitable donations: Giving away money to charitable organizations you believe in can be rewarding—you can also deduct contributions from your estate.




How Do You Avoid Death Taxes?
Most people will not incur estate taxes, commonly called the death tax. But if you have $12.06 million or more in assets in 2022 or $12.92 million in 2023, you can avoid paying taxes by donating to charity, giving enough of your estate away to reduce its value, or placing it in special trust funds.




What States Have Death Taxes?
Twelve states and one district have estate taxes—Connecticut, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington, and the District of Columbia.




Are There Death Taxes in the U.S.?
The federal government and 12 states have tax laws that impose taxes on estates with significant assets.


   The Bottom Line  

The death tax is a tax on a person's estate after they have passed. Also known as estate taxes, to be triggered, the estate must have significant assets—more than $12.06 million in 2022 or $12.92 million in 2023. Most people will not need to worry about a death tax, but for those that do, there are some tactics you can use to reduce or avoid the tax.
What Is a Debenture?  

A debenture is a type of bond or other debt instrument that is unsecured by collateral. Since debentures have no collateral backing, they must rely on the creditworthiness and reputation of the issuer for support. Both corporations and governments frequently issue debentures to raise capital or funds.





Key Takeaways

A debenture is a type of debt instrument that is not backed by any collateral and usually has a term greater than 10 years.Debentures are backed only by the creditworthiness and reputation of the issuer.Both corporations and governments frequently issue debentures to raise capital or funds.Some debentures can convert to equity shares while others cannot.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   Understanding Debentures  

Similar to most bonds, debentures may pay periodic interest payments called coupon payments. Like other types of bonds, debentures are documented in an indenture. An indenture is a legal and binding contract between bond issuers and bondholders. The contract specifies features of a debt offering, such as the maturity date, the timing of interest or coupon payments, the method of interest calculation, and other features. Corporations and governments can issue debentures.



Governments typically issue long-term bonds—those with maturities of longer than 10 years. Considered low-risk investments, these government bonds have the backing of the government issuer.



Corporations also use debentures as long-term loans. However, the debentures of corporations are unsecured. Instead, they have the backing of only the financial viability and creditworthiness of the underlying company. These debt instruments pay an interest rate and are redeemable or repayable on a fixed date. A company typically makes these scheduled debt interest payments before they pay stock dividends to shareholders. Debentures are advantageous for companies since they carry lower interest rates and longer repayment dates as compared to other types of loans and debt instruments.


   Types of Debentures  
  Registered vs. Bearer  

When debts are issued as debentures, they may be registered to the issuer. In this case, the transfer or trading in these securities must be organized through a clearing facility that alerts the issuer to changes in ownership so that they can pay interest to the correct bondholder. A bearer debenture, in contrast, is not registered with the issuer. The owner (bearer) of the debenture is entitled to interest simply by holding the bond.


  Redeemable vs. Irredeemable  

Redeemable debentures clearly spell out the exact terms and date by which the issuer of the bond must repay their debt in full. Irredeemable (non-redeemable) debentures, on the other hand, do not hold the issuer liable to repay in full by a certain date. Because of this, irredeemable debentures are also known as perpetual debentures.


  Convertible vs. Nonconvertible  

Convertible debentures are bonds that can convert into equity shares of the issuing corporation after a specific period. Convertible debentures are hybrid financial products with the benefits of both debt and equity. Companies use debentures as fixed-rate loans and pay fixed interest payments. However, the holders of the debenture have the option of holding the loan until maturity and receiving the interest payments or converting the loan into equity shares.



Convertible debentures are attractive to investors that want to convert to equity if they believe the company's stock will rise in the long term. However, the ability to convert to equity comes at a price since convertible debentures pay a lower interest rate compared to other fixed-rate investments.



Nonconvertible debentures are traditional debentures that cannot be converted into equity of the issuing corporation. To compensate for the lack of convertibility investors are rewarded with a higher interest rate when compared to convertible debentures.


   Features of a Debenture  

When issuing a debenture, first a trust indenture must be drafted. The first trust is an agreement between the issuing corporation and the trustee that manages the interest of the investors.


  Interest Rate  

The coupon rate is determined, which is the rate of interest that the company will pay the debenture holder or investor. This coupon rate can be either fixed or floating. A floating rate might be tied to a benchmark such as the yield of the 10-year Treasury bond and will change as the benchmark changes.


  Credit Rating  

The company's credit rating and ultimately the debenture's credit rating impacts the interest rate that investors will receive. Credit-rating agencies measure the creditworthiness of corporate and government issues. These entities provide investors with an overview of the risks involved in investing in debt.



Credit rating agencies, such as Standard and Poor's, typically assign letter grades indicating the underlying creditworthiness. The Standard & Poor’s system uses a scale that ranges from AAA for excellent rating to the lowest rating of C and D. Any debt instrument receiving a rating lower than a BB is said to be of speculative grade. You may also hear these called junk bonds. It boils down to the underlying issuer being more likely to default on the debt.


  Maturity Date  

For nonconvertible debentures, mentioned above, the date of maturity is also an important feature. This date dictates when the company must pay back the debenture holders. The company has options on the form the repayment will take. Most often, it is as redemption from the capital, where the issuer pays a lump sum amount on the maturity of the debt. Alternatively, the payment may use a redemption reserve, where the company pays specific amounts each year until full repayment at the date of maturity.


   Pros and Cons of Debentures  

Debentures are the most common form of long-term debt instruments issued by corporations. A company will issue these to raise capital for its growth and operations, and investors can enjoy regular interest payments that are relatively safer investments than a company's equity shares of stock.



Debentures are unsecured bonds issued by corporations to raise debt capital. Because they are not backed by any form of collateral, they are inherently more risky than an otherwise identical note that is secured. Because of the increased risk, debentures will carry a comparatively higher interest rate in order to compensate bondholders. This also means that bond investors should pay careful attention to the creditworthiness of debenture issuers.



The relative lack of security does not necessarily mean that a debenture is riskier than any other bond. Strictly speaking, a U.S. Treasury bond and a U.S. Treasury bill are both debentures. They are not secured by collateral, yet they are considered risk-free.





Pros

A debenture pays a regular interest rate or coupon rate return to investors.
Convertible debentures can be converted to equity shares after a specified period, making them more appealing to investors.
In the event of a corporation's bankruptcy, the debenture is paid before common stock shareholders.



Cons

Fixed-rate debentures may have interest rate risk exposure in environments where the market interest rate is rising.
Creditworthiness is important when considering the chance of default risk from the underlying issuer's financial viability.
Debentures may have inflationary risk if the coupon paid does not keep up with the rate of inflation.





   Debenture Risks to Investors  

Debenture holders may face inflationary risk. Here, the risk is that the debt's interest rate paid may not keep up with the rate of inflation. Inflation measures economy-based price increases. As an example, say inflation causes prices to increase by 3%. Should the debenture coupon pay at 2%, the holders may see a net loss, in real terms.



Debentures also carry interest rate risk. In this risk scenario, investors hold fixed-rate debts during times of rising market interest rates. These investors may find their debt returning less than what is available from other investments paying the current, higher, market rate. If this happens, the debenture holder earns a lower yield in comparison.



Further, debentures may carry credit risk and default risk. As stated earlier, debentures are only as secure as the underlying issuer's financial strength. If the company struggles financially due to internal or macroeconomic factors, investors are at risk of default on the debenture. As some consolation, a debenture holder would be repaid before common stock shareholders in the event of bankruptcy.






The three main features of a debenture are the interest rate, the credit rating, and the maturity date.


   Example of a Debenture  

An example of a government debenture would be the U.S. Treasury bond (T-bond). T-bonds help finance projects and fund day-to-day governmental operations. The U.S. Treasury Department issues these bonds during auctions held throughout the year.



Some Treasury bonds trade in the secondary market. In the secondary market through a financial institution or broker, investors can buy and sell previously issued bonds. T-bonds are nearly risk-free since they're backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. However, they also face the risk of inflation and interest rates increase.




How Is a Debenture Different From a Bond?
A debenture is a type of bond. In particular, it is an unsecured or non-collateralized debt issued by a firm or other entity and usually refers to such bonds with longer maturities. Secured bonds are backed by some sort of collateral in the form of property, securities, or other assets that can be seized to repay creditors in the event of a default. Unsecured debentures have no such collateralization, making them relatively riskier.




Are Debentures Risky Investments?
Because debentures are debt securities, they tend to be less risky than investing in the same company's common stock or preferred shares. Debenture holders would also be considered more senior and take priority over those other types of investments in the case of bankruptcy.Because these debts are not backed by any collateral, however, they are inherently riskier than secured debts. Therefore, these may carry relatively higher interest rates than otherwise similar bonds from the same issuer that are backed by collateral.In fact, strictly speaking, a U.S. Treasury bond and a U.S. Treasury bill are both debentures. They are not secured by collateral, yet they are considered risk-free securities.




How Are Debentures Structured?
All debentures follow a standard structuring process and have common features. First, a trust indenture is drafted, which is an agreement between the issuing entity and the entity that manages the interests of the bondholders. Next, the coupon rate is decided, which is the rate of interest that the company will pay the debenture holder or investor. This rate can be either fixed or floating and depends on the company's credit rating or the bond's credit rating. Debentures may also be either convertible or non-convertible into common stock.




Is a Debenture an Asset or a Liability?
This depends on whose perspective is considered. As a debt instrument, a debenture is a liability for the issuer, who is essentially borrowing money via issuing these securities. For an investor (bondholder), owning a debenture is an asset.


   The Bottom Line  

Debentures are a common form of unsecured bonds issued by corporations and governments. In contrast to secured bonds, which are backed by collateral, unsecured bonds are relatively riskier since they do not offer any sort of backstop of assets if the issuer defaults: they rely solely on the creditworthiness of the issuer. Strictly speaking, a U.S. Treasury bonds are, in this way, debentures.
A debit is an accounting entry that results in either an increase in assets or a decrease in liabilities on a company’s balance sheet. In fundamental accounting, debits are balanced by credits, which operate in the exact opposite direction.



For instance, if a firm takes out a loan to purchase equipment, it would simultaneously debit fixed assets and credit a liabilities account, depending on the nature of the loan. The abbreviation for debit is sometimes “dr,” which is short for “debtor.”





Key Takeaways

A debit is an accounting entry that creates a decrease in liabilities or an increase in assets.In double-entry bookkeeping, all debits are made on the left side of the ledger and must be offset with corresponding credits on the right side of the ledger. On a balance sheet, positive values for assets and expenses are debited, and negative balances are credited.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   What Is the Difference Between a Debit and a Credit?  

A debit is a feature found in all double-entry accounting systems. Debits are the opposite of credits.



In a standard journal entry, all debits are placed as the top lines, while all credits are listed on the line below debits. When using T-accounts, a debit is on the left side of the chart while a credit is on the right side. Debits and credits are utilized in the trial balance and adjusted trial balance to ensure that all entries balance. The total dollar amount of all debits must equal the total dollar amount of all credits. In other words, finances must balance.



A dangling debit is a debit balance with no offsetting credit balance that would allow it to be written off. It occurs in financial accounting and reflects discrepancies in a company’s balance sheet, as well as when a company purchases goodwill or services to create a debit.



For example, if Barnes & Noble sold $20,000 worth of books, it would debit its cash account $20,000 and credit its books or inventory account $20,000. This double-entry system shows that the company now has $20,000 more in cash and a corresponding $20,000 less in books.


   Normal Accounting Balances  

Certain types of accounts have natural balances in financial accounting systems. Assets and expenses have natural debit balances. This means that positive values for assets and expenses are debited and negative balances are credited.



For example, upon the receipt of $1,000 cash, a journal entry would include a debit of $1,000 to the cash account in the balance sheet, because cash is increasing. If another transaction involves payment of $500 in cash, the journal entry would have a credit to the cash account of $500 because cash is being reduced. In effect, a debit increases an expense account in the income statement, and a credit decreases it. 



Liabilities, revenues, and equity accounts have natural credit balances. If a debit is applied to any of these accounts, the account balance has decreased. For example, a debit to the accounts payable account in the balance sheet indicates a reduction of a liability. The offsetting credit is most likely a credit to cash because the reduction of a liability means that the debt is being paid and cash is an outflow. For the revenue accounts in the income statement, debit entries decrease the account, while a credit points to an increase in the account.






The concept of debits and offsetting credits are the cornerstone of double-entry accounting.


   Debit Notes  

Debit notes are a form of proof that one business has created a legitimate debit entry in the course of dealing with another business (B2B). This might occur when a purchaser returns materials to a supplier and needs to validate the reimbursed amount. In this case, the purchaser issues a debit note reflecting the accounting transaction.



A business might issue a debit note in response to a received credit note. Mistakes (often interest charges and fees) in a sales, purchase, or loan invoice might prompt a firm to issue a debit note to help correct the error.



A debit note or debit receipt is very similar to an invoice. The main difference is that invoices always show a sale, whereas debit notes and debit receipts reflect adjustments or returns on transactions that have already taken place.


   Margin Debit  

When buying on margin, investors borrow funds from their brokerage and then combine those funds with their own to purchase a greater number of shares than they would have been able to purchase with their own funds. The debit amount recorded by the brokerage in an investor’s account represents the cash cost of the transaction to the investor.



The debit balance, in a margin account, is the amount of money owed by the customer to the broker (or another lender) for funds advanced to purchase securities. The debit balance is the amount of funds that the customer must put into their margin account, following the successful execution of a security purchase order, to properly settle the transaction.



The debit balance can be contrasted with the credit balance. While a long margin position has a debit balance, a margin account with only short positions will show a credit balance. The credit balance is the sum of the proceeds from a short sale and the required margin amount under Regulation T.



Sometimes, a trader’s margin account has both long and short margin positions. Adjusted debit balance is the amount in a margin account that is owed to the brokerage firm, minus profits on short sales and balances in a special miscellaneous account (SMA).


   Contra Accounts  

Certain accounts are used for valuation purposes and are displayed on the financial statements opposite the normal balances. These accounts are called contra accounts. The debit entry to a contra account has the opposite effect as it would to a normal account.



For example, an allowance for uncollectable accounts offsets the asset accounts receivable. Because the allowance is a negative asset, a debit actually decreases the allowance. A contra asset’s debit is the opposite of a normal account’s debit, which increases the asset.




What Is a Debit?
A debit is an accounting entry that results in either an increase in assets or a decrease in liabilities on a company’s balance sheet.




What’s the Difference Between a Debit and a Credit?
Debits are the opposite of credits in an accounting system. Assets and expenses have natural debit balances, while liabilities and revenues have natural credit balances.




Does Debit Always Mean an Increase?
It means an increase in assets. All accounts that normally contain a debit balance will increase in amount when a debit (left column) is added to them and reduced when a credit (right column) is added to them. The types of accounts to which this rule applies are expenses, assets, and dividends.


   The Bottom Line  

A debit is an accounting entry that creates a decrease in liabilities or an increase in assets. In double-entry bookkeeping, all debits are made on the left side of the ledger and must be offset with corresponding credits on the right side of the ledger. On a balance sheet, positive values for assets and expenses are debited, and negative balances are credited.
What Is a Debit Balance?  

The debit balance in a margin account is the amount of money a brokerage customer owes their broker for funds they've borrowed from the broker to purchase securities on margin.





Key Takeaways

The debit balance in a margin account is how much a brokerage customer owes their broker for funds they borrowed from the broker to purchase securities.There are two types of trading accounts: a cash account and a margin account.A cash account only uses the cash available to purchase securities, while a margin account can also use money borrowed from the broker for that purpose.Borrowing on margin is also known as being leveraged and can magnify profits or losses.Financial industry rules limit how much money an investor can borrow for any given transaction (initial margin) and also how much equity they must keep in their account at all times (maintenance margin).Failing to have a sufficient maintenance margin can result in a margin call.


   How a Debit Balance Works  

When buying on margin, investors borrow funds from a broker and then combine those funds with their own in order to purchase a greater number of shares and, if all goes well, earn a greater profit. This is known as leveraging their position.



The two primary types of brokerage accounts used to buy and sell financial assets are a cash account and a margin account. In a cash account, the investor can only spend the cash balance they have on deposit and no more. For example, if a person has $2,000 in their cash account, they can only buy securities worth a total value of $2,000 unless they add more money to the account.



A margin account allows the investor to borrow money from the broker to purchase additional shares or, in the case of a short sale, to borrow shares to sell in the market. In order to borrow money, the investor pledges cash or securities already in their margin account as collateral.



For example, an investor with a $2,000 cash balance might want to purchase shares worth $3,000. Their broker could lend them the other $1,000 through a margin account, with the investor putting up $2,000 in cash. In this case, the debit balance would be $1,000.


   What Is an Adjusted Debit Balance?  

An adjusted debit balance is the amount of money in a margin account that is owed to the brokerage firm, minus profits on short sales and balances in a special memorandum account (SMA).



The adjusted debit balance tells the investor how much they would owe the broker in the event of a margin call, which requires the repayment of borrowed funds to the brokerage firm if the balance in the account drops below a certain level. That can happen when a security purchased on margin falls in value.



Financial industry regulations permit an investor to borrow up to 50% of the purchase price of securities on margin, which is stipulated in the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation T. That is referred to as the initial margin.



In addition, investors must meet a maintenance margin requirement set by their brokerage firm. That's the amount of equity they need to have in their margin account at all times, and it is calculated by subtracting the money they owe their broker from value of the cash and securities in their account. Industry rules require the maintenance margin to be at least 25% of the market value of the margin securities, but some brokerage firms set a higher minimum.




Do Brokers Charge Interest on Your Debit Balance?
Yes, brokers charge interest on the money they lend you. It's worth asking about the interest rate and whether it's fixed or variable before you start buying on margin. The interest you'll have to pay will reduce any profits you hope to make from your trades.




What Is a Special Memorandum Account?
A special memorandum account (SMA) is a brokerage account that is set up in conjunction with a margin account to hold excess margin (that is, more than is needed to meet maintenance requirements) from the margin account. The SMA preserves the investor's gains and provides a line of credit for future purchases on margin. It can also be used to help make up for declines in value of securities in the margin account in the event of a margin call.




What Happens in a Margin Call?
A margin call can occur when the customer's account falls below the brokerage firm's minimum maintenance requirement. When they receive a margin call, the customer must deposit additional cash or securities into the account to bring it up to a level where it satisfies the requirement. If they fail to do so within a prescribed period (often two to five days), the broker will sell enough of the securities already in the account to make up the difference.However, as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission notes, brokers are not required to issue a margin call and "may be able to sell your securities at any time without consulting you first. Under most margin agreements, even if your firm offers to give you time to increase the equity in your account, it can sell your securities without waiting for you to meet the margin call."




What Are Marginable Securities?
Marginable securities are stocks, bonds, and other securities that can be purchased on margin or used as collateral in a margin account. Each brokerage firm can decide whether a particular security is marginable or non-marginable for its purposes. If a security is non-marginable, the investor can still buy it, but they will have to pay for it entirely with their own cash.




How Can You Avoid a Margin Call?
The best way to avoid a margin call is to keep a significant cash cushion in the margin account and also to monitor the account regularly to see how close you are to slipping below your brokerage firm's maintenance margin percentage. You can also avoid a margin call, of course, if you simply maintain a cash account and don't buy on margin.


   The Bottom Line  

A debit balance is the amount of money a brokerage customer owes their broker for securities purchases they have made on margin. If the debit balance gets too high relative to the equity in the account, the investor may be subject to a margin call. For that reason, investors with margin accounts should regularly check how much equity they have in their accounts and be prepared to come up with additional cash if they need to.
What Is a Debit Card?  

A debit card is a payment card that deducts money directly from your checking account. Also called “check cards” or "bank cards," debit cards can be used to buy goods or services or to get cash from an ATM. Debit cards can help you reduce the need to carry cash, although using these cards can sometimes entail fees.





Key Takeaways

Debit cards are payment cards that reduce the need to carry cash or physical checks to make purchases.You can use debit cards at ATMs to withdraw cash.Debit card purchases may require a personal identification number (PIN), but some purchases can be made without one.You may be charged an ATM transaction fee if you use your debit card to withdraw cash from an ATM that's not affiliated with your bank.Some debit cards offer rewards, similar to credit card rewards, such as 1% back on purchases.


   How a Debit Card Works  

A debit card is a card linked to your checking account. It looks like a credit card, but it works differently. The amount of money you can spend on a debit card is determined by the amount of funds in your account, not by a credit limit such as credit cards carry.



Unlike with a credit card, you do not go into debt when you use a debit card because you are using it to access funds you already have. You do not have to make monthly minimum payments on a debit card because there is no debt to repay.



You can use a debit card to get cash from an ATM or you can make purchases with it like you make purchases with credit cards. With debit cards, you may need to enter your PIN (personal identification number), although many debit cards can be used to make purchases without a PIN.



Debit cards draw the funds immediately from the affiliated account. So, your spending is limited to what’s available in your checking account, and the exact amount of money you have to spend will fluctuate along with your account balance.






Debit cards usually have daily purchase limits, meaning you can't spend more than a certain amount in one 24-hour period.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Debit Card Fees  

Generally, debit cards do not have annual membership fees or cash-advance charges, but there are other potential fees to consider.



ATM transaction fee: If you withdraw cash from an ATM that's not affiliated with the bank that issued your debit card, you may be charged an ATM transaction fee. These fees are also called "out-of-network" fees.
Insufficient funds fee: If you use the card to spend more than you have in your account, you can face an insufficient funds charge. These fees are also called non-sufficient funds (NSF) fees.
Overdraft fee: If you've registered for overdraft protection and spend more than your limit, your purchase will go through, but you will incur overdraft fees.
Replacement card fee: You might incur a replacement card fee if your debit card is lost, damaged, or stolen and you need to order a new card.
Foreign transaction fee: If you use your debit card to make a purchase in a foreign currency, you could get charged a foreign transaction fee, such as 3% on the transaction amount.



A prepaid debit card, which has a set amount of money stored on it, may have similar fees. A prepaid debit card is like a gift card in that it allows you to spend a sum that's been loaded onto the card. Fees for prepaid debit cards can include monthly maintenance fees, transaction fees, ATM fees, reloading fees, balance inquiry fees, inactivity fees, paper statement fees, and foreign transaction fees.


   Debit Card vs. Credit Card  

Many bank debit cards are issued by credit card companies, so it may seem like there is little distinction between credit and debit cards. For example, a Mastercard debit card can look like a Mastercard credit card. However, they differ in many ways, from the way they finance a purchase to the amount of consumer protections they provide.



Here is a comparison of some of their main features in more detail.


  Financing  

Credit cards and debit cards work in fundamentally different ways in terms of how they use your money. Using a debit card to make a purchase is like writing a check or paying with cash. You're paying for the item with funds in your bank account, not with revolving credit.



When you use a credit card, you're essentially using a revolving loan. The credit card company pays the merchant, then bills you for the amount. You repay it when you get your monthly statement. If you don't repay the full amount, you pay interest on the remaining portion the following month.


  Rewards  

Some debit cards offer reward programs, similar to credit card rewards programs, such as 1% cashback on all purchases.



However, rewards programs are more common with credit cards, which can offer better terms with an introductory offer, cash back rewards, travel points, and other perks.


  Protections  

By law, you cannot be held responsible for more than $50 of fraudulent purchases made on a debit or credit card, as long as you report the fraud in a timely manner. However, credit card companies often extend their protections to provide zero liability to cardholders.


  ATM Use  

You can get cash with both debit and credit cards. But when you get cash using a credit card, you're borrowing money with a "cash advance." If you use your credit card for cash, you may pay interest on the funds starting right when you withdraw them. You may also pay a transaction fee and pay a higher interest rate than you would on purchases.



You don't carry a balance on a debit card because each time you use it, you're paying with money that already belongs to you. So there are no interest charges.


   Pros and Cons Debit Cards  



Pros

Safer than cash
Doesn't incur debt
Easier qualifications than credit cards



Cons

Limits expenditures to cash in bank and/or a daily amount
Could incur fees
Fewer perks than credit cards
Fewer protections than credit cards





  Pros Explained  

Safer than cash: Debits are considerably safer than cash. Transactions made with a debit cards appear on the account holder’s monthly statement, making it easy to see where the money went. While lost or stolen cash is gone forever, a lost or stolen debit card can be reported to the bank, which can deactivate the card, remove any fraudulent transactions from the cardholder’s account, and issue a new card.
Doesn't incur debt: With debit cards, you are effectively making purchases in cash—with money you already have, as opposed to money borrowed on credit. So, you won't go into debt using a debit card. (However, some overdraft protection plans allow you to spend past your limit, but you must repay the balance quickly and you will likely incur a fee.)
Easier qualifications than credit cards: Debit cards are easier to get if you have poor credit. If you have a checking account, you can get a debit card. You don't have to apply and get approved for debit cards like you do with credit cards.


  Cons Explained  

Limits expenditures to cash in bank and/or a daily amount: When you use a debit card, you can only spend up to the amount of money you already have. If you need to finance a purchase to pay it off over time, you cannot use a debt card.Could incur fees: Using a debit card can entail fees, including overdraft fees when you withdraw more than the amount you have in your account, and ATM fees when you use an ATM outside your bank's network.Fewer perks than credit cards:  Although some debit cards have modest rewards programs, they generally don't offer as many perks as credit cards. Rewards programs that offer cash back and travel points are more common among credit cards.Fewer protections than credit cards: Debit cards may have fewer protections against fraud than credit cards. Credit card companies are more likely to reimburse you for all purchases made as a result of fraud. By law you cannot be held responsible for more than $50 in fraudulent purchases made on a debit or credit card.




What Are the Features of a Debit Card?
Debit cards come with personal identification numbers (PINs) that let you withdraw cash from ATMs. You can also make purchases with these cards. If they come from a credit card issuer, they might offer cashback programs and other perks.




Do Debit Cards Have Purchase Protection?
Purchase protections on debit cards vary depending on the issuer. Generally, debit cards do not offer as much purchase protection as credit cards. You can be responsible for up to $50 of fraudulent purchases made with a debit card or credit card, but many credit card companies extend this protection to zero liability.




Can I Get a Debit Card Online?
You can usually get a debit card online from any financial institution that lets you open a checking account online and provides a debit card. This applies to online banks and traditional brick-and-mortar banks that sign people up digitally.




Can You Be 12 and Have a Debit Card?
The age requirements for financial products like debit cards depends on the bank. Legally, U.S. financial institutions cannot provide financial products to minors, but minors still may be able to get a debit card with the inclusion of a parent or legal guardian on the account. To have a debit card in their own name, minors often have to be at least 13 years old. Still, some banks offer cards to children under 13 (in the adult's name).


   The Bottom Line  

A debit card is a card issued by a bank or credit union to checking account holders that is used to access funds in the account. You can use a debit card to access cash from an ATM or to buy goods or services. Unlike with credit cards, you can't go into debt using debit cards (except perhaps for small negative balances that might be incurred if you have overdraft protection).



If you are considering getting a debit card, compare the fees and potential perks of accounts from different banks.
What Is a Debit Note?  

A debit note is a document used by a vendor to inform the buyer of current debt obligations, or a document created by a buyer when returning goods received on credit. The debit note can provide information regarding an upcoming invoice or serve as a reminder for funds currently due. For returned items, the note will include the total anticipated credit, an inventory of the returned items, and the reason for their return.





Key Takeaways:


A debit note is separate from an invoice and informs a buyer of current debt obligations.
A debit note is also a document created by a buyer when returning goods received on credit.
In the case of returned items, the note will show the credit amount, the inventory of the returned items, and the reason for the return.













Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   How a Debit Note Works  

A debit note, also known as a debit memo, is generally used in business-to-business transactions. Such transactions often involve an extension of credit, meaning a vendor sends a shipment of goods to a company before the buyer's cost is paid. The note tells the buyer that the seller has debited their account. Although real goods are changing hands, real money is not transferred until an actual invoice is issued. Debits and credits are instead logged in an accounting system to track shipped inventories and payments owed.



Debit notes are separate from invoices because they are generally formatted as letters, and they may not require immediate payment. This is true when the debit note is used to inform the buyer of upcoming debt obligations based on amounts that have yet to be officially invoiced.


  Alternate Forms of Debit Notes  

Some companies use debit notes to bill for items that are not their primary business. For example, if a company sublets some of its warehouse space, it might issue a debit note for the rent. Debit notes might also be used to correct mistakes in invoices. If a client is underbilled on an invoice, for example, a debit note might be issued for the missing amount that should have been billed.



In addition to the letter format, debit notes may also be provided as shipping receipts with received goods. While the amount due may be noted, payment is not expected until an official invoice is sent to the buyer. This can allow a buyer the opportunity to return goods, if necessary, without first having to provide payment.



Some debit notes may be sent as informational postcards that only serve as a reminder of the debt the buyer has accrued. This can be helpful in cases where the seller is not certain if an original invoice was received or reviewed. The postcard can also contain information on how the debt can be settled, such as relevant contact information.


  Debit Notes as Optional Documents  

Not all companies choose to send debit notes to buyers with outstanding or pending debt obligations. Generally, a seller either considers it a standard business practice and uses it according to internal procedures or does not use it at all. In some cases, a buyer can request a document with the information contained in a debit note to meet internal recordkeeping requirements.
What Is Debt?  

Debt is something, usually money, owed by one party to another. Debt is used by many individuals and companies to make large purchases that they could not afford under other circumstances. Unless a debt is forgiven by the lender, it must be paid back, typically with added interest.



Spanish Translation of Debt





Key Takeaways

Debt is something one party owes another, typically money.Companies and individuals often take on debt to make large purchases they could not afford without it.Debt can be secured or unsecured, with a fixed end date or revolving.Consumers can borrow money through loans or lines of credit, including credit cards.Corporations can also issue debt in the form of bonds to raise capital.


   How Debt Works  

The most common forms of debt are loans, including mortgages, auto loans, and personal loans, as well as credit cards. Under the terms of a most loans, the borrower receives a set amount of money, which they must repay in full by a certain date, which may be months or years in the future. The terms of the loan will also stipulate the amount of interest that the borrower is required to pay, expressed as a percentage of the loan amount. Interest compensates the lender for taking on the risk of the loan.



Credit cards and lines of credit operate a little differently. They provide what's known as revolving or open-end credit, with no fixed end date. The borrower is assigned a credit limit and they can use their credit card or credit line repeatedly as long as they don't exceed that limit.


  An Example of Debt  

When students take out federal student loans to pay for college, they will receive a certain sum of money that they agree to pay back in the future with interest. Students now have the option of several different repayment plans. If they choose what's known as the standard repayment plan, they will be required to make fixed monthly payments for 10 years, at which point their debt will be completely paid off.



Each of those monthly payments will represent a portion of the principal they owe plus interest on their debt. The interest rate on federal student loans for undergraduates is currently 4.99%.


   Types of Consumer Debt  

Debt can come in a variety of forms, each with their own uses and requirements. Most types of debt fall into one or more of the following categories:


  Secured Debt  

Secured debt is also known as collateralized debt. That means the borrower has pledged something of value to back up the debt. With a car loan, for example, the vehicle usually serves as collateral. If the borrower fails to repay the money they borrowed to buy the car, the lender can seize and sell it. Similarly, when someone takes out a mortgage to buy a home, the home itself typically serves as collateral. If the borrower fails to make payments, the lender can foreclose and take the home.



A company that wants to borrow money might pledge a piece of machinery, real estate, or cash in the bank as collateral.


  Unsecured Debt  

Unsecured debt does not require any collateral as security. Instead, the lender decides whether to grant a loan based on the borrower's creditworthiness, as indicated by their credit score, credit history, and other factors.



Most credit cards and most personal loans are examples of unsecured debt. Because unsecured debt can be riskier to the lender it generally commands a higher interest rate than secured debt.


  Revolving Debt  

Revolving debt provides the borrower with a line of credit that they are able to borrow from as they wish. The borrower can take up to a certain amount, pay the debt back, and borrow up to that amount again. The most common form of revolving debt is credit card debt.



As long as the borrower fulfills their obligations, typically by making monthly payments of at least a certain minimum amount, the line of credit remains available for as long as the account is active. Over time, with a favorable repayment history, the amount of revolving debt that's available to the borrower may increase.


  Mortgages  

A mortgage is a type of secured debt used to purchase real estate, such as a house or condo. Mortgages are usually paid back over long periods, such as 15 or 30 years.



Mortgages are often the largest debt, apart from student loans, that consumers will ever take on, and they come in many different varieties. Two broad categories are fixed-rate mortgages and adjustable-rate mortgages, or ARMs. In the case of ARMs, the interest rate can change periodically, usually based on the performance of a particular index.


   Types of Corporate Debt  

Companies that want to borrow money have some options that aren't available to individual consumers. In addition to loans from a bank or other lender, they are often able to issue bonds and commercial paper.



Bonds are a debt instrument that allow a company to borrow funds from investors by promising to repay the money with interest. Both individuals and investment firms can purchase bonds, which typically carry a fixed interest, or coupon, rate. If a company needs to raise $1 million to fund the purchase of new equipment, for example, it could issue 1,000 bonds with a face value of $1,000 each.



Bonds commonly become due at a certain date in the future, called the maturity date, at which time the investor will receive the bond's full face value. In addition, the investor will have received regular interest payments throughout the intervening years.



Commercial paper is short-term corporate debt with a maturity of 270 days or less.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Debt  

Properly used, debt can be advantageous to individuals and companies alike. Few people could buy a home without a mortgage, and many people couldn't afford a new car without an auto loan. Credit cards can be a great convenience and even a lifesaver in emergency situations.



For companies, access to debt can make all the difference in their ability to expand and compete.



But debt can be risky, for borrower and lender alike. With enough credit cards in their wallets, consumers can easily accumulate an unmanageable amount of debt, especially if they lose their jobs or face another serious setback.



Companies that take on a large amount of debt may not be able to make their interest payments if sales drop, putting the business in danger of bankruptcy. Even if it doesn't reach that point, having too much debt can impose a crippling burden on a company, requiring it to devote much of its income to debt repayment rather than more productive purposes.


   How to Pay Off Debt  

The best way to stay out of debt trouble is to have a plan for paying it off. That starts with not taking on too much debt in the first place.



For example, consumers should pay attention to their credit utilization ratio, also known as a debt-to-limit ratio. That's the amount of debt they currently owe as a percentage of the total amount of credit they have available to them. For example, if someone has two credit cards with a combined credit limit of $10,000, and they currently owe $5,000 on those cards, their credit utilization ratio is 50%.



Lenders typically prefer that consumers keep their credit utilization ratios below 30%, and credit scores penalize individuals for exceeding that level.



The fastest way to pay off debt is to devote a greater portion of your income to monthly debt payments, ideally paying off credit card debts in full each month before any interest charges kick in. If you need to prioritize, experts generally recommend paying off your highest interest debts first and working your way down from there.



You can also consolidate several debts into one, which may make sense if the new loan carries a lower interest rate. Similarly, you may be able to transfer your credit card balances to another card with a lower interest rate or, ideally, a 0% interest rate for a period of time.




What Are Examples of Debt?
Debt is anything owed by one party to another. Examples of debt include amounts owed on credit cards, car loans, and mortgages.




What Is the Legal Definition of Debt?
In terms of consumer debt, 15 U.S. Code Section 1692a defines it as "any obligation or alleged obligation of a consumer to pay money arising out of a transaction in which the money, property, insurance, or services which are the subject of the transaction are primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, whether or not such obligation has been reduced to judgment."




What Is the Difference Between Debt and a Loan?
Debt and loan are often used synonymously, but there are slight differences. Debt is anything owed by one person to another. Debt can involve real property, money, services, or other consideration. In corporate finance, debt is more narrowly defined as money raised through the issuance of bonds.A loan is a form of debt but, more specifically, an agreement in which one party lends money to another. The lender sets repayment terms, including how much is to be repaid and when, as well as the interest rate on the debt.




What Is the Difference Between Debt and Credit?
Debt is amount of money you owe, while credit is the amount of money you have available to you to borrow. For example, unless you have maxed out your credit cards, your debt is less than your credit.


   The Bottom Line  

Debt is an important, if not essential, tool in today's economy. Businesses take on debt in order to fund needed projects, while consumers may use it to buy a home or finance a college education. At the same time, debt can be risky, especially for companies or individuals that accumulate too much of it.
What Is a Debt Collector?  

A debt collector is a person or organization that is in the business of recovering money owed on delinquent accounts. Many debt collectors are hired by companies to which money is owed by individuals, operating for a flat fee or for a percentage of the amount they are able to collect. Some debt collectors are debt buyers; these companies purchase debt at a fraction of its face value and then attempt to recover the full amount of the debt or as much of it as they can. A debt collector may also be known as a collection agency. Here is how they work.





Key Takeaways

A debt collector attempts to recover past-due debts owed to creditors.Debt collectors are often paid a percentage of any money they manage to collect.Some debt collectors purchase delinquent debts from creditors at a discount and then seek to collect on their own.Debt collection is regulated in order to protect consumers from aggressive collectors, although abuses still occur.Debt collectors who violate the rules can be sued.


   How Debt Collectors Work  

When a borrower defaults on a debt (meaning that they have failed to make one or more required payments), the lender or creditor may turn their account over to a debt collector or collections agency. At that point the debt is said to have gone to collections.



This typically happens within three to six months of default, depending on how lenient the creditor is. Overdue payments on credit card balances, phone bills, auto loans, utility bills, and back taxes are examples of the delinquent debts that a collector may be tasked with retrieving.



Some companies have their own debt collection departments. But most find it easier to hire a debt collector to go after unpaid debts than to chase the clients themselves. Debt collectors also have the experience, tools, and resources needed to track down a debtor who might have moved to another address or changed phone numbers.



Debt collectors may call the person's personal and work phones, and even show up on their doorstep. They may also contact their family, friends, and neighbors in order to confirm the contact information that they have on file for the individual. (However, they are not allowed to disclose the reason they are trying to reach them.) In addition, they may mail the debtor late payment notices.



If the person agrees to pay the debt, the creditor will usually pay the debt collector a percentage of the money it gets back, unless they have a flat-fee arrangement.



Some debt collection agencies and other companies will purchase delinquent debt from creditors, typically for pennies on the dollar, then attempt to collect the debt for their own benefit.


   Regulations and Consumer Protections  

Debt collectors are regulated under the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) administered by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). The law, which went into effect in 1978, prohibits debt collectors from using abusive, unfair, or deceptive practices during the collection process. For instance, they are not allowed to contact debtors before 8 a.m. or after 9 p.m. Nor can they falsely claim that a debtor will be arrested if they fail to pay. Additionally, a collector can't physically harm or threaten a debtor and isn't allowed to seize assets without the approval of a court.



The law also gives debtors certain rights. For example, if they send a letter to a debt collector telling them to stop contacting them, the collector is required to comply.



In 2021, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) issued a new Debt Collection Rule further clarifying what debt collectors are and aren't allowed to do. For example, when a debt collector makes its first contact with the debtor, either in writing or electronically, it must provide certain information, such as the debt collector's name and address, the name of the creditor, any account number associated with the debt, and the amount and itemized accounting of the debt. They must also provide information on the debtor's rights and how they can dispute the debt if they believe it is inaccurate.



People who think a debt collector has broken the law can report them to the FTC, the CFPB, and their state attorney general's office. They also have the right to sue the debt collector in state or federal court.




Do Debt Collectors Report Information to Credit Bureaus?
Yes, a debt collector may report a debt to the credit bureaus, but only after it has contacted the debtor about it. The delinquent debt may also be reflected on the person's credit report under the name of the original creditor. Both can remain on credit reports for up to seven years and have a negative effect on the individual's credit score, a large portion of which is based on their payment history.




Does the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act Cover Business Debts?
No, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act applies only to consumer debts, such as mortgages, credit cards, car loans, student loans, and medical bills.




Does the Internal Revenue Service Use Debt Collectors?
Yes, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) uses private agencies to collect outstanding tax debts in some instances. When that happens, the IRS will send the taxpayer an official notice called a CP40. Because scams are common, taxpayers should be wary of anyone purporting to be working on behalf of the IRS and check with the IRS to make sure.




Are Debt Collectors Licensed?
That depends on the state. Some states have licensing requirements for debt collectors, while others do not. All debt collectors in the U.S., whether licensed or not, must comply with the federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, and some states have their own laws in addition.


   The Bottom Line  

Debt collectors provide a useful service to lenders and other creditors that want to recover all or part of money that is owed to them. At the same time, the law provides certain consumer protections to keep debt collectors from becoming too aggressive or abusive.
Debt consolidation refers to taking out a new loan or credit card to pay off other existing loans or credit cards. By combining multiple debts into a single, larger loan, you may also be able to obtain more favorable payoff terms, such as a lower interest rate, lower monthly payments, or both. Here's how to decide whether you should consolidate your debts and how to go about it if you do.





Key Takeaways

Debt consolidation is the act of taking out a single loan or credit card to pay off multiple debts.The benefits of debt consolidation include a potentially lower interest rate and lower monthly payments.You can consolidate your debts using a personal loan, home equity loan, or balance-transfer credit card.Debt consolidation also has some potential pitfalls.


   How Debt Consolidation Works  

You can roll old debt into new debt in several different ways, such as by taking out a new personal loan, a new credit card with a high enough credit limit, or a home equity loan. Then, you pay off your smaller loans with the new one. If you are using a new credit card to consolidate other credit card debt, for example, you can transfer the balances on your old cards to your new one. Some balance transfer credit cards even offer incentives, such as a 0% interest rate on your balance for a period of time.



In addition to the possibility of lower interest rates and smaller monthly payments, debt consolidation can be a way to simplify your financial life, with fewer bills to pay each month and fewer due dates to worry about.






Creditors are often willing to work with you on debt consolidation to increase the likelihood that you will repay what you owe them.


   An Example of Debt Consolidation  

Suppose you have three credit cards and owe a total of $20,000 on them, with a 22.99% average annual interest rate. You would need to pay about $1,047 a month for 24 months to bring the balances down to zero, and you'd pay about $4,603 in interest during that time.



If you consolidated those credit cards into a lower-interest card or loan at an 11% annual rate, you would need to pay about $932 a month for the same 24 months to erase the debt, and your interest charges would total about $2,157.



With a 0% credit card, your payments would be even lower, at least while the promotional period was in effect.










Consolidating three credit cards with an average interest rate of 22.99%


Loan Details
Credit Cards (3)
Consolidation Loan




Principal
$20,000
$20,000


Interest %
22.99%
11%


Payments
$1,047
$932


Term
24 months
24 months


Bills Paid/Month
3
1


Total Interest
$4,603
$2,157





   Risks of Debt Consolidation  

Debt consolidation also has some downsides to consider. For one, when you take out a new loan, your credit score could suffer a minor hit, which could affect whether you qualify for other new loans.



Depending on how you consolidate your loans, you could also risk paying more in total interest. For example, if you take out a new loan with lower monthly payments but a longer repayment term, you may end up paying more in total interest over time.






You can also hire a debt consolidation company to assist you. However, they often charge hefty initial and monthly fees. It's usually easier and cheaper to consolidate debt on your own with a personal loan from a bank or a low-interest credit card.


   Types of Debt Consolidation Loans  

You can consolidate debt by using different types of loans or credit cards. Which will be best for you will depend on the terms and types of your current loans and your current financial situation.



There are two broad types of debt consolidation loans: secured and unsecured loans. Secured loans are backed by an asset like your home, which serves as collateral for the loan.



Unsecured loans, on the other hand, are not backed by assets and can be more difficult to get. They also tend to have higher interest rates and lower qualifying amounts. With either type of loan, interest rates are still typically lower than the rates charged on credit cards. And in most cases, the rates are fixed, so they won't rise over the repayment period.



With any type of loan, you'll want to prioritize which of your debts to pay off first. It often makes sense to start with the highest-interest debt and work your way down the list.





Tip

Order your copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine for more tips about managing debt and building credit.



Here are a few more details about the most common ways to consolidate your debt.


  Personal Loans  

A personal loan is an unsecured loan from a bank or credit union that provides a lump sum payment you can use for any purpose. You repay the loan with regular monthly payments for a set period of time and with a set interest rate.



Personal loans generally have lower interest rates than credit cards, so they can be ideal for consolidating credit card debt.






Some lenders offer debt consolidation loans specifically for consolidating debt. They are designed to help people who are struggling with multiple high-interest loans.


  Credit Cards  

A new card can help you reduce your credit card debt burden if it offers a lower interest rate.



As mentioned earlier, some credit cards offer an introductory period with 0% APR when you transfer your existing balances to them. These promotional periods often last from six to 21 months or so, after which the interest rate can shoot up into double digits. So it's best to pay off your balance, or as much of it as you can, as soon as possible.



Note that these cards may also impose an initial fee, often equal to 3% to 5% of the amount you are transferring.


  Home Equity Loans  

If you are a homeowner who has built up equity over the years, a home equity loan or home equity line of credit (HELOC) can be a useful way to consolidate debt. These secured loans use your equity as collateral and typically offer interest rates slightly above average mortgage rates, which are generally well below credit card interest rates.





Tip

Order your copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine for more tips about managing debt and building credit.


  Student Loans  

The federal government offers several consolidation options for people with student loans, including direct consolidation loans through the Federal Direct Loan Program. The new interest rate is the weighted average of the previous loans. Consolidating your federal student loans can result in lower monthly payments by stretching out the repayment period to as long as 30 years. However, that can also mean paying more in total interest over the long term.



Private loans don't qualify for this program, although you may be able to consolidate them with another private loan.


   Debt Consolidation and Your Credit Score  

A consolidation loan may help your credit score in the long term. By reducing your monthly payments, you should be able to pay the loan off sooner and reduce your credit utilization ratio (the amount of money you owe at any given time compared to the total amount of debt you have access to). This, in turn, can help boost your credit score, making you more likely to get approved by creditors and for better rates.



However, rolling over existing loans into a brand new one may initially have a negative impact on your credit score. That's because credit scores favor older debts with longer, more-consistent payment histories.


   Qualifying for Debt Consolidation  

Borrowers must meet the lender's income and creditworthiness standards to qualify for a new loan. For example, for a debt consolidation loan, you may need to provide a letter of employment, two months' worth of statements for each credit card or loan you wish to pay off, and letters from creditors or repayment agencies.




Does Debt Consolidation Hurt Your Credit Score?
Debt consolidation could temporarily affect your credit score negatively because of a credit inquiry, but it can help your credit score in the long term if you use it correctly. Most people who make their new payments on time find their credit score increases significantly as they avoid missing payments and decrease their credit utilization ratio.




What Are the Risks of Debt Consolidation?
Consolidating debt could potentially lead to you paying more in the long run, particularly if you consolidate credit card debt but then continue to use the cards you paid off. There may also be a minor, short-term ding to your credit score.




What Is the Best Way to Consolidate Debt?
The best way to consolidate your debt will depend on the amount you need to pay off, your ability to repay it, and whether you qualify for a relatively inexpensive loan or credit card. Fortunately, you have a number of options.




What Is Debt Settlement?
Not to be confused with debt consolidation, debt settlement aims to reduce a consumer's financial obligations rather than the number of creditors they have. Consumers can work with debt-relief organizations or credit counseling services to settle their debts. These organizations do not make actual loans but try to renegotiate the borrower's current debts with creditors.


   The Bottom Line  

Debt consolidation can be a useful strategy for paying down debt more quickly and reducing your overall interest costs. You can consolidate debt in many different ways, such as through a personal loan, a new credit card, or a home equity loan.
What Is the Debt-To-EBITDA Ratio?  

Debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) is a ratio that measures the amount of income generated and available to pay down debt before a company accounts for interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization expenses. A high ratio result could indicate a company has a debt load that might be too high.



Banks often include a certain debt-to-EBITDA target in the covenants for business loans, and a company must maintain this agreed-upon level or risk having the entire loan become due immediately. Credit rating agencies commonly use this metric to assess a company's probability of defaulting on issued debt. Firms with a high debt-to-EBITDA ratio may not be able to service their debt appropriately, leading to a lowered credit rating.





Key Takeaways

The debt-to-EBITDA ratio is used by lenders, valuation analysts, and investors to gauge a company's liquidity position and financial health.The ratio shows how much actual cash flow the company has available to cover its debt and other liabilities.A debt-to-EBITDA ratio that declines over time indicates a company is paying down debt, increasing its earnings, or both.Debt-to-EBITDA should be used cautiously because it is not an accurate indicator of a company's ability to pay its debts from earnings.


   Formula and Calculation  






Debt to EBITDA


=



Debt


EBITDA




\text{Debt to EBITDA}= \frac{\text{Debt}}{\text{EBITDA}}


Debt to EBITDA=EBITDADebt​
where:
Debt = Long-term and short-term debt obligations
EBITDA = Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization
To determine total debt, add the company's long-term and short-term debt obligations. You can find these numbers in the company's balance sheet in the "Liabilities" section.
You can calculate EBITDA using data from the company's income statement. Find its net income on the income statement, then add any interest expenses, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Divide the debt by the company's EBITDA.
The debt-to-EBITDA ratio is similar to the net debt-to-EBITDA ratio. The main difference is the net debt-to-EBITDA ratio subtracts cash and cash equivalents while the standard ratio does not.






EBITDA is a non-GAAP measurement. If you learn a company is using it in its reports, you should investigate further to learn more about their debt and actual earnings or income.


   What the Ratio Can Tell You  

The debt-to-EBITDA ratio compares a company's total obligations to the actual cash the company brings in from its operations. It reveals how capable the firm is of paying its debt and other liabilities if taxes and the expenses from depreciation and amortization are deferred.



The ratio can also be used to compare companies without considering their financing methods and non-cash assets. This is useful because it provides a clearer picture of how debts can be paid.



A declining debt-to-EBITDA ratio is better than an increasing one because it implies the company is paying off its debt and/or growing earnings. Likewise, an increasing debt-to-EBITDA ratio means the company is increasing debt more than earnings.


   Limitations of the Ratio  

Some analysts like the debt-to-EBITDA ratio because it is easy to calculate. Debt can be found on the balance sheet, and EBITDA can be calculated from the income statement. The issue, however, is that it may not provide the most accurate measure of earnings. In fact, companies often use EBITDA to hide or disguise losses over a period.



Depreciation and amortization are non-cash expenses that do not really impact cash flows, but interest on debt can be a significant expense for some companies. Banks and investors looking at the debt-to-EBITDA ratio to gain insight into how well the company can pay its debts may want to consider the impact of interest on debt-repayment ability, even if that debt will be included in new issuance.



Some industries are more capital-intensive than others, so a company's debt-to-EBITDA ratio should only be compared to the same ratio for other companies in the same industry. In some industries, a debt-to-EBITDA of 10 could be completely normal, while a ratio of three to four is more appropriate in other industries.


   Example of Debt-To-EBITDA Use  

As an example, if company A has $100 million in debt and $10 million in EBITDA, the debt-to-EBITDA ratio is 10. If company A pays off 50% of that debt in the next five years while increasing EBITDA to $25 million, the debt-to-EBITDA ratio falls to two.




What Is a Good Debt-To-EBITDA?
It depends on the industry in which the company operates. Anything above 1.0 means the company has more debt than earnings before accounting for income tax, depreciation, and amortization. Some industries might require more debt, while others might not. Before considering this ratio, it helps to determine the industry's average.




What Is a Good Debt-To-Equity Ratio?
Debt-to-equity measures how much debt a company has to its shareholders' equity. Because shareholders' equity is part of total liabilities, it shows how much of a business's debt is equity financing. Lower ratios are ideal, but "good" depends on a business's financial structure and how other companies in the same industry structure themselves.




What Is the Rule of Thumb for Debt-To-EBITDA?
It depends on the business and the industry it operates in. Some analysts might say 3.0 is the limit, while others might go as high as, or higher than, 4.5 or 5.0.


   The Bottom Line  

The debt-to-EBITDA ratio tells you how much income is available to pay debts before taxes, depreciation, and amortization are considered. The ratio is used by some analysts, but since certain expenses are not accounted for before the calculation, the metric is limited because it doesn't demonstrate the ability to pay debts from earnings after all expenses are paid.
What Is a Debt/Equity Swap?  

A debt/equity swap is a transaction in which the obligations or debts of a company or individual are exchanged for something of value, namely, equity. In the case of a publicly-traded company, this generally entails an exchange of bonds for stock. The value of the stocks and bonds being exchanged is typically determined by the market at the time of the swap.





Key Takeaways

Debt/equity swaps involve the exchange of equity for debt in order to write off money owed to creditors.They are usually conducted during bankruptcies, and the swap ratio between debt and equity can vary based on individual cases.In a bankruptcy case, the debt holder is required to make the debt/equity swap, but in other cases, the debt holder may opt to make the swap, provided the offering is a financially favorable one.


   Understanding Debt/Equity Swaps  

A debt/equity swap is a refinancing deal in which a debt holder gets an equity position in exchange for the cancellation of the debt. The swap is generally done to help a struggling company continue to operate. The logic behind this is an insolvent company cannot pay its debts or improve its equity standing. However, sometimes a company may simply wish to take advantage of favorable market conditions. Covenants in the bond indenture may prevent a swap from happening without consent.



In cases of bankruptcy, the debt holder does not have a choice about whether he wants to make the debt/equity swap. However, in other cases, he may have a choice in the matter. To entice people into debt/equity swaps, businesses often offer advantageous trade ratios. For example, if the business offers a 1:1 swap ratio, the bondholder receives stocks worth exactly the same amount as his bonds, not a particularly advantageous trade. However, if the company offers a 1:2 ratio, the bondholder receives stocks valued at twice as much as his bonds, making the trade more enticing.


   Why Use Debt/Equity Swaps?  

Debt/equity swaps can offer debt holders equity because the business does not want to or cannot pay the face value of the bonds it has issued. To delay repayment, it offers stock instead.



In other cases, businesses have to maintain certain debt/equity ratios and invite debt holders to swap their debts for equity if the company helps to adjust that balance. These debt/equity ratios are often part of financing requirements imposed by lenders. In other cases, businesses use debt/equity swaps as part of their bankruptcy restructuring.


   Debt/Equity and Bankruptcy  

If a company decides to declare bankruptcy, it has a choice between Chapter 7 and Chapter 11. Under Chapter 7, all of the business's debts are eliminated, and the business no longer operates. Under Chapter 11, the business continues its operations while restructuring its finances. In many cases, Chapter 11 reorganization cancels the company's existing equity shares. It then reissues new shares to the debt holders, and the bondholders and creditors become the new shareholders in the company.


   Debt/Equity Swaps vs. Equity/Debt Swaps  

An equity/debt swap is the opposite of a debt/equity swap. Instead of trading debt for equity, shareholders swap equity for debt. Essentially, they exchange stocks for bonds. Generally, Equity/Debt swaps are conducted in order to facilitate smooth mergers or restructuring in a company.


   Example of a Debt/Equity Swap  

Suppose company ABC has a $100 million debt that it is unable to service. The company offers 25% percent ownership to its two debtors in exchange for writing off the entire debt amount. This is a debt-for-equity swap in which the company has exchanged its debt holdings for equity ownership by two lenders.
What Is Debt Financing?  

Debt financing occurs when a firm raises money for working capital or capital expenditures by selling debt instruments to individuals and/or institutional investors. In return for lending the money, the individuals or institutions become creditors and receive a promise that the principal and interest on the debt will be repaid. The other way to raise capital in debt markets is to issue shares of stock in a public offering; this is called equity financing.





Key Takeaways

Debt financing occurs when a company raises money by selling debt instruments to investors. Debt financing is the opposite of equity financing, which entails issuing stock to raise money. Debt financing occurs when a firm sells fixed income products, such as bonds, bills, or notes.Unlike equity financing where the lenders receive stock, debt financing must be paid back.  Small and new companies, especially, rely on debt financing to buy resources that will facilitate growth.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   How Debt Financing Works  

When a company needs money, there are three ways to obtain financing: sell equity, take on debt, or use some hybrid of the two. Equity represents an ownership stake in the company. It gives the shareholder a claim on future earnings, but it does not need to be paid back. If the company goes bankrupt, equity holders are the last in line to receive money.



A company can choose debt financing, which entails selling fixed income products, such as bonds, bills, or notes, to investors to obtain the capital needed to grow and expand its operations. When a company issues a bond, the investors that purchase the bond are lenders who are either retail or institutional investors that provide the company with debt financing. The amount of the investment loan—also known as the principal—must be paid back at some agreed date in the future. If the company goes bankrupt, lenders have a higher claim on any liquidated assets than shareholders. 






   Special Considerations   
  Cost of Debt  

A firm's capital structure is made up of equity and debt. The cost of equity is the dividend payments to shareholders, and the cost of debt is the interest payment to bondholders. When a company issues debt, not only does it promise to repay the principal amount, it also promises to compensate its bondholders by making interest payments, known as coupon payments, to them annually. The interest rate paid on these debt instruments represents the cost of borrowing to the issuer.



The sum of the cost of equity financing and debt financing is a company's cost of capital. The cost of capital represents the minimum return that a company must earn on its capital to satisfy its shareholders, creditors, and other providers of capital. A company's investment decisions relating to new projects and operations should always generate returns greater than the cost of capital. If a company's returns on its capital expenditures are below its cost of capital, the firm is not generating positive earnings for its investors. In this case, the company may need to re-evaluate and re-balance its capital structure.



The formula for the cost of debt financing is:



KD = Interest Expense x (1 - Tax Rate)



where KD = cost of debt



Since the interest on the debt is tax-deductible in most cases, the interest expense is calculated on an after-tax basis to make it more comparable to the cost of equity as earnings on stocks are taxed.


  Measuring Debt Financing  

One metric used to measure and compare how much of a company's capital is being financed with debt financing is the debt-to-equity ratio (D/E). For example, if total debt is $2 billion, and total stockholders' equity is $10 billion, the D/E ratio is $2 billion / $10 billion = 1/5, or 20%. This means for every $1 of debt financing, there is $5 of equity. In general, a low D/E ratio is preferable to a high one, although certain industries have a higher tolerance for debt than others. Both debt and equity can be found on the balance sheet statement.






Creditors tend to look favorably on a low D/E ratio, which can increase the likelihood that a company can obtain funding in the future.


   Debt Financing vs. Interest Rates  

Some investors in debt are only interested in principal protection, while others want a return in the form of interest. The rate of interest is determined by market rates and the creditworthiness of the borrower. Higher rates of interest imply a greater chance of default and, therefore, carry a higher level of risk. Higher interest rates help to compensate the borrower for the increased risk. In addition to paying interest, debt financing often requires the borrower to adhere to certain rules regarding financial performance. These rules are referred to as covenants.



Debt financing can be difficult to obtain. However, for many companies, it provides funding at lower rates than equity financing, particularly in periods of historically low-interest rates. Another advantage to debt financing is that the interest on the debt is tax-deductible. Still, adding too much debt can increase the cost of capital, which reduces the present value of the company.


   Debt Financing vs. Equity Financing  

The main difference between debt and equity financing is that equity financing provides extra working capital with no repayment obligation. Debt financing must be repaid, but the company does not have to give up a portion of ownership in order to receive funds.



Most companies use a combination of debt and equity financing. Companies choose debt or equity financing, or both, depending on which type of funding is most easily accessible, the state of their cash flow, and the importance of maintaining ownership control. The D/E ratio shows how much financing is obtained through debt vs. equity. Creditors tend to look favorably on a relatively low D/E ratio, which benefits the company if it needs to access additional debt financing in the future.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Debt Financing  

One advantage of debt financing is that it allows a business to leverage a small amount of money into a much larger sum, enabling more rapid growth than might otherwise be possible. Another advantage is that the payments on the debt are generally tax-deductible. Additionally, the company does not have to give up any ownership control, as is the case with equity financing. Because equity financing is a greater risk to the investor than debt financing is to the lender, debt financing is often less costly than equity financing.



The main disadvantage of debt financing is that interest must be paid to lenders, which means that the amount paid will exceed the amount borrowed. Payments on debt must be made regardless of business revenue, and this can be particularly risky for smaller or newer businesses that have yet to establish a secure cash flow.





Advantages of debt financing

Debt financing allows a business to leverage a small amount of capital to create growth
Debt payments are generally tax-deductible
A company retains all ownership control
Debt financing is often less costly than equity financing



Disadvantages of debt financing

Interest must be paid to lenders
Payments on debt must be made regardless of business revenue
Debt financing can be risky for businesses with inconsistent cash flow





   Debt Financing FAQs  
  What Are Examples of Debt Financing?  

Debt financing includes bank loans; loans from family and friends; government-backed loans, such as SBA loans; lines of credit; credit cards; mortgages; and equipment loans.


  What Are the Types of Debt Financing?  

Debt financing can be in the form of installment loans, revolving loans, and cash flow loans.



Installment loans have set repayment terms and monthly payments. The loan amount is received as a lump sum payment upfront. These loans can be secured or unsecured.



Revolving loans provide access to an ongoing line of credit that a borrower can use, repay, and repeat. Credit cards are an example of revolving loans.



Cash flow loans provide a lump-sum payment from the lender. Payments on the loan are made as the borrower earns the revenue used to secure the loan. Merchant cash advances and invoice financing are examples of cash flow loans.


  Is Debt Financing a Loan?  

Yes, loans are the most common forms of debt financing.


  Is Debt Financing Good or Bad?  

Debt financing can be both good and bad. If a company can use debt to stimulate growth, it is a good option. However, the company must be sure that it can meet its obligations regarding payments to creditors. A company should use the cost of capital to decide what type of financing it should choose.


   The Bottom Line  

Most companies will need some form of debt financing. Additional funds allow companies to invest in the resources they need in order to grow. Small and new businesses, especially, need access to capital to buy equipment, machinery, supplies, inventory, and real estate. The main concern with debt financing is that the borrower must be sure that they have sufficient cash flow to pay the principal and interest obligations tied to the loan.
What Is a Debt Fund  

A debt fund is an investment pool, such as a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund, in which the core holdings comprise fixed income investments. A debt fund may invest in short-term or long-term bonds, securitized products, money market instruments or floating rate debt. On average, the fee ratios on debt funds are lower than those attached to equity funds because the overall management costs are lower.



Often referred to as credit funds or fixed income funds, debt funds fall under the fixed income asset category. These low-risk vehicles are customarily sought by investors looking to preserve capital and/or achieve low-risk income distributions.





Key Takeaways

A debt fund refers to a mutual fund, an exchange-traded fund (ETF), or any other pooled investment offerings whose underlying investments chiefly contain fixed income investments. Fees on debt funds are lower than those associated with equity funds because their management costs are inherently lower. Investors interested in debt fund options can choose between passive and active products.


   Debt Fund Risk  

Debt funds may invest in a wide swath of securities, with varying associated risk levels. U.S. government debt is generally considered to pose the least risk. The risk profile of corporate debt issued by businesses as part of their capital structures is generally classified by the company’s credit rating.



Investment-grade debt is issued by companies with stable outlooks and high credit quality. High-yield debt, which is mainly issued by lower credit quality companies with potential emerging growth prospects, offers higher returns, along with higher prospective risk. Other debt categories include developed market debt and emerging market debt.


   Debt Fund Investing  

Investors may choose from a wide range of low-risk debt fund options, in both passive and active products.



Passive



Some of the largest and most actively-traded passive fixed income investment funds seek to replicate the top fixed income benchmark indexes, including the Bloomberg U.S. Aggregate Bond Index and the ICE U.S. Treasury Core Bond Index. Passive ETFs replicating these indexes include:



iShares Core U.S. Aggregate Bond ETF



The iShares Core U.S. Aggregate Bond ETF (AGG) is a passively managed index replication fund that tracks the Bloomberg U.S. Aggregate Bond Index. The fund has a net expense ratio of 0.03%. Its 5-year average annual return as of Aug. 4, 2022 is 0.83%.



iShares U.S. Treasury Bond ETF



The iShares U.S. Treasury Bond ETF (GOVT) is a passively managed index replication fund that tracks the ICE U.S. Treasury Core Bond Index. It has a net expense ratio of 0.05%, and its 5-year average annual return through Aug. 4, 2022, is 0.61%.



Active



The debt fund market also includes a wide range of active managers, who seek to outperform debt fund indexes such as the Bloomberg U.S. Aggregate Bond Index and the ICE U.S. Treasury Core Bond Index.



The First Trust Tactical High Yield ETF (HYLS) is an example of an actively-managed debt fund that invests for income and capital appreciation. Its 5-year NAV return as of Aug. 4, 2022, is 0.89%. While the fund is not outperforming its selected index year-to-date, it is one of the top-performing funds in the U.S. high yield bond universe.



Overall, investors in debt funds should understand the return calculation measurements that are used as performance indicators. Since debt funds involve income generation, funds may pay scheduled monthly or quarterly dividends. Total return calculations account for income payouts, while general return calculations may not.


   Global Debt Funds  

Countries issue debt in various forms to support their governmental fiscal policies. In the U.S., government-issued debt is generally considered to be the lowest risk fixed income investment in the market.



U.S. Debt Funds



The U.S. government issues a wide range of securities for investment. These securities can be invested directly, or investors may choose to invest in diversified debt funds that include these securities. BlackRock’s iShares is one of the market’s leading managers for indexed U.S. government debt fund ETFs.



U.S. corporate debt funds are typically segregated by the credit quality of the corporate issuer. U.S. companies have some of the highest credit ratings globally, placing U.S. debt funds in high demand.



Global Debt Funds



Many countries offer debt investments to support government fiscal policies. Risks and returns of government debt funds vary, depending on a nation's political and economic environment. Similar to equities, global corporate bond funds can be segregated by developed and emerging market indexes. Credit ratings are assigned to both government bonds and corporate bonds, using globally standardized credit rating analysis.






Although debt funds are comparatively lower risk than equity funds, investors should be mindful of interest rate risk.
What Is a Debt Instrument?  

A debt instrument is any financial tool used to raise capital. It is a documented, binding obligation between two parties in which one party lends funds to another, with the repayment method specified in a contract. Some are secured by collateral, and most involve interest, a schedule for payments, and time frame to maturity if it has a maturity date.





Key Takeaways

Any type of instrument primarily classified as debt can be considered a debt instrument.A debt instrument is a tool an entity can use to raise capital.Businesses have some flexibility in their debt instruments and how they structure them.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Debt Instruments  

Any type of instrument primarily classified as debt can be considered a debt instrument. Generally, the instruments used are some form of term debt, credit, or other revolving debt—credit instruments that you can continually draw on—with repayment conditions defined in a contract. Credit cards, lines of credit, loans, and bonds can all be considered debt instruments.



A debt instrument typically focuses on debt capital raised by governments and private or public companies. The issuance markets for these entities vary substantially by the type of debt instrument.



Credit cards and lines of credit can be used to obtain capital. These revolving debt lines usually have a simple structure and only one lender. They are also not typically associated with a primary or secondary market for securitization. More-complex debt instruments involve advanced contract structuring, multiple lenders, and investors usually investing through an organized marketplace.


   Types of Debt Instruments  

Debt is typically a top choice for raising capital because it comes with a defined schedule for repayment. This comes with less risk for the lender and borrower, which allows for lower interest payments. Debt securities are a more complex debt instrument involving greater structuring. If a business structures its debt to obtain capital from multiple lenders or investors through an organized marketplace, it is usually characterized as a debt security instrument. These are complex, as they are structured for issuance to multiple investors.



Some common debt security instruments are:



U.S. Treasury Bonds
Municipal Bonds
Corporate Bonds



These debt security instruments allow capital to be obtained from multiple investors. They can be structured with either short-term or long-term maturities. Short-term debt securities are paid back to investors and closed within one year. Long-term debt securities require payments to investors for more than one year.


  U.S. Treasury bonds  

Treasury bonds come in many forms denoted across a yield curve. The U.S. Treasury issues three types of debt security instruments, Bills, Notes, and Bonds:



Treasury bills have maturities ranging from a few days to 52 weeks.Treasury notes are issued with two-year, three-year, five-year, seven-year, and 10-year maturities.Treasury bonds have 20-year or 30-year maturities.



Each of these offerings is a debt security instrument the U.S. government offers to the public to raise capital to fund the government.


  Municipal bonds  

Municipal bonds are a type of debt security instrument issued by state and local governments to fund infrastructure projects. Municipal bond security investors are primarily institutional investors, such as mutual funds.


  Corporate bonds  

Corporate bonds are a type of debt security instrument used to raise capital from the investing public. Corporate bonds are structured with different maturities, which influence their interest rate.



Mutual funds are usually some of the most prominent corporate bond investors. However, retail investors with a brokerage account may also be able to invest in corporate bonds through their broker.



Corporate bonds also have an active secondary market that retail and institutional investors can use.


   Alternatively Structured Debt Security Products  

There are also various alternatively structured debt security products in the market, primarily used as debt security instruments by financial institutions. These offerings include a bundle of assets issued as debt security.



Financial institutions and agencies may choose to bundle products from their balance sheet—such as debt—into a single security, which is then used to raise capital while segregating the assets.




What Is a Debt Instrument?
A debt instrument is used to raise capital. It involves a binding contract in which an entity borrows funds from a lender and promises to repay them according to the terms outlined in the contract.




What Is a Debt Security?
A debt security is a more complex form of debt instrument with a complex structure. The borrower can raise money from multiple lenders through an organized marketplace.




What Are Treasury Bonds?
The U.S. government issues Treasury bonds to raise capital to fund the government. They come in maturities of 20 or 30 years. The government also issues Treasury bills, which have maturities ranging from a few days to 52 weeks, and Treasury notes, which have maturities of two, three, five, seven, or 10 years. All are debt instruments.


   The Bottom Line  

Debt instruments are any form of debt used to raise capital for businesses and governments. There are many types of debt instruments, but the most common are credit products, bonds, or loans. Each comes with different repayment conditions, generally described in a contract.
What Is a Debt Issue?  

A debt issue refers to a financial obligation that allows the issuer to raise funds by promising to repay the lender at a certain point in the future and in accordance with the terms of the contract.



A debt issue is a fixed corporate or government obligation such as a bond or debenture. Debt issues also include notes, certificates, mortgages, leases, or other agreements between the issuer or borrower, and the lender.





Key Takeaways

A debt issue involves the offering of new bonds or other debt instruments by a creditor in order to borrow capital.Debt issues are generally in the form of fixed corporate or government obligations such as bonds or debentures.In a debt issue, the seller promises the investor regular interest payments along the with eventual repayment of the invested principal on a predetermined date.Corporates issue debt for capital projects, while governments do so to fund social programs and infrastructure projects.


   Understanding Debt Issues  

When a company or government agency decides to take out a loan, it has two options. The first is to get financing from a bank. The other option is to issue debt to investors in the capital markets. This is referred to as a debt issue—the issuance of a debt instrument by an entity in need of capital to fund new or existing projects or to finance existing debt. This method of raising capital may be preferred, as securing a bank loan can restrict how the funds can be used.



A debt issue is essentially a promissory note in which the issuer is the borrower, and the entity buying the debt asset is the lender. When a debt issue is made available, investors buy it from the seller who uses the funds to pursue its capital projects. In return, the investor is promised regular interest payments and also repayment of the initial principal amount on a predetermined date in the future.



Corporations and municipal, state, and federal governments offer debt issues as a means of raising needed funds. Debt issues such as bonds are issued by corporations to raise money for certain projects or to expand into new markets. Municipalities, states, federal, and foreign governments issue debt to finance a variety of projects such as social programs or local infrastructure projects.



In exchange for the loan, the issuer or borrower must make payments to the investors in the form of interest payments. The interest rate is often called the coupon rate, and coupon payments are made using a predetermined schedule and rate.






By issuing debt, an entity is free to use the capital it raises as it sees fit.


   Special Considerations  

When the debt issue matures, the issuer repays the face value of the asset to the investors. Face value, also referred to as par value, differs across the various types of debt issues. For example, the face value on a corporate bond is typically $1,000. Municipal bonds often have $5,000 par values and federal bonds often have $10,000 par values.



Short-term bills typically have maturities between one and five years, medium-term notes mature between five and ten years, while long-term bonds generally have maturities longer than ten years. Certain large corporations such as Coca-Cola and Walt Disney have issued bonds with maturities as long as 100 years.


   The Process of Debt Issuance  
  Corporate Debt Issuance  

Issuing debt is a corporate action which a company's board of directors must approve. If debt issuance is the best course of action for raising capital and the firm has sufficient cash flows to make regular interest payments on the issue, the board drafts a proposal that is sent to investment bankers and underwriters. Corporate debt issues are commonly issued through the underwriting process in which one or more securities firms or banks purchase the issue in its entirety from the issuer and form a syndicate tasked with marketing and reselling the issue to interested investors. The interest rate set on the bonds is based on the credit rating of the company and the demand from investors. The underwriters impose a fee on the issuer in return for their services.


  Government Debt Issuance  

The process for government debt issues is different since these are typically issued in an auction format. In the United States, for example, investors can purchase bonds directly from the government through its dedicated website, TreasuryDirect. A broker is not needed, and all transactions, including interest payments, are handled electronically. Debt issued by the government is considered to be a safe investment since it is backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. Since investors are guaranteed they will receive a certain interest rate and face value on the bond, interest rates on government issues tend to be lower than rates on corporate bonds.


   The Cost of Debt  

The interest rate paid on a debt instrument represents a cost to the issuer and a return to the investor. The cost of debt represents the default risk of an issuer, and also reflects the level of interest rates in the market. In addition, it is integral in calculating the weighted-average cost of capital (WACC) of a company, which is a measure of the cost of equity and the after-tax cost of debt.



One way to estimate the cost of debt is to measure the current yield-to-maturity (YTM) of the debt issue. Another way is to review the credit rating of the issuer from the rating agencies such as Moody's, Fitch, and Standard & Poor's. A yield spread over U.S. Treasuries—determined from the credit rating—can then be added to the risk-free rate to determine the cost of debt.



There are also fees associated with issuing debt that the borrower incurs by selling assets. Some of these fees include legal fees, underwriting fees, and registration fees. These charges are generally paid to legal representatives, financial institutions and investment firms, auditors, and regulators. All of these parties are involved in the underwriting process.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


Why do companies issue debt?
By issuing debt (e.g., corporate bonds), companies are able to raise capital from investors. Using debt, the company becomes a borrower and the bondholders of the issue are the creditors (lenders). Unlike equity capital, debt does not involve diluting the ownership of the firm and does not carry voting rights. Debt capital is also often cheaper than equity capital and interest payments may be tax-advantaged.




What is the cost of a debt issuance?
Aside from fees paid to the underwriters who help a firm issue debt, the direct cost to the company is the coupon, or interest rate, on the bond. This represents the amount of cash that must be paid to bondholders on a regular basis until the bond matures. If this coupon rate (the bond's yield) is higher, the cost to the issuer will also be higher.




What are some risks or drawbacks of debt issuance?
If a company issues too much debt and they are unable to service the interest or repay the principal, it can default on the debt. This can lead to bankruptcy and a decrease to the issuer's credit rating, which can make it more difficult or costly to raise further debt capital.
What Is Debt Overhang?  

Debt overhang refers to a debt burden so large that an entity cannot take on additional debt to finance future projects. This includes entities that are profitable enough to be able to reduce indebtedness over time. A debt overhang serves to dissuade current investment, since all earnings from new projects would only go to existing debt holders, leaving little incentive and ability for the entity to attempt to dig itself out of the hole.





Key Takeaways

Debt overhang refers to a debt burden so large that an entity cannot take on additional debt to finance future projects.The burden is so large that all earnings pay off existing debt rather than fund new investment projects, making the potential for defaulting higher.Debt overhangs can lead to underinvestment, which stunts growth, making recovery even more difficult.


   Understanding Debt Overhang  

When an entity has an excessive amount of debt and cannot borrow more capital, that entity is said to be in a debt overhang. The burden is so large that any and all earnings go directly to pay off existing debt rather than fund new investment projects, making the potential for default higher. In most cases, shareholders may be reluctant to approve new stock issuances because shareholders may be on the hook for losses.



Debt overhangs also apply to sovereign governments. In these cases, the term refers to a situation in which the debt of a nation exceeds its future capacity to repay it. This can occur from an output gap or economic underemployment, repeatedly plugged by the creation of additional credit. A debt overhang can lead to stagnant growth and a degradation of living standards from reduced funds to spending in critical areas such as healthcare, education, and infrastructure.



Because of the way they affect balance sheets and bottom lines, debt overhangs can distress entities in different ways. They can cause companies and countries to put a pause on further spending and/or investment. In fact, they can lead to underinvestment. Because they can stunt growth, debt overhangs can make recovery even more difficult.



There are several ways to get out of a debt overhang. Debtors can enroll in debt cancellation programs to get a portion of or the entirety of their debts forgiven by creditors, nations can default on their debt, companies may go insolvent or bankrupt, or existing debt may be repurchased and converted into equity.






The risk of defaulting on debt is greater when a company or country experiences a debt overhang.


   Special Considerations  

A debt overhang can trap companies as a greater proportion of revenues or cash flow simply goes toward servicing its existing debt. This widening deficit can only be filled through incremental debt, which only increases a company's burden.



A debt overhang is particularly difficult as it straps companies aiming to take advantage of new opportunities with positive net present value (NPV). Although under more normal conditions, these potential projects would repay themselves over time, a ballooning existing debt position in a company could likely turn off would-be investors in the project. Given that the company’s debt holders can be reasonably expected to lay claim to a portion or all of the new project’s profits, the NPV would, in effect, be negative.



To solve the debt overhang in many developing nations, debt cancellation programs are occasionally implemented by intergovernmental organizations such as the World Bank and international organizations such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Programs have covered Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, and Zambia. Another program, the Jubilee 2000 campaign, was an international movement by 40 countries, which called for the cancellation of debt of developing nations by the year 2000. Although the campaign didn't meet all of its goals, it was well received and was generally considered to be successful.
What Is the Debt Ratio?  

The term debt ratio refers to a financial ratio that measures the extent of a company’s leverage. The debt ratio is defined as the ratio of total debt to total assets, expressed as a decimal or percentage. It can be interpreted as the proportion of a company’s assets that are financed by debt.



A ratio greater than 1 shows that a considerable amount of a company's assets are funded by debt, which means the company has more liabilities than assets. A high ratio indicates that a company may be at risk of default on its loans if interest rates suddenly rise. A ratio below 1 means that a greater portion of a company's assets is funded by equity.





Key Takeaways

A debt ratio measures the amount of leverage used by a company in terms of total debt to total assets.This ratio varies widely across industries, such that capital-intensive businesses tend to have much higher debt ratios than others.A company's debt ratio can be calculated by dividing total debt by total assets.A debt ratio of greater than 1.0 or 100% means a company has more debt than assets while a debt ratio of less than 100% indicates that a company has more assets than debt.Some sources consider the debt ratio to be total liabilities divided by total assets.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Debt Ratio Formula and Calculation  

As noted above, a company's debt ratio is a measure of the extent of its financial leverage. This ratio varies widely across industries. Capital-intensive businesses, such as utilities and pipelines tend to have much higher debt ratios than others like the technology sector.
The formula for calculating a company's debt ratio is:















Debt ratio


=



Total debt


Total assets








\begin{aligned} &\text{Debt ratio} = \frac{\text{Total debt}}{\text{Total assets}} \end{aligned}


​Debt ratio=Total assetsTotal debt​​
So if a company has total assets of $100 million and total debt of $30 million, its debt ratio is 0.3 or 30%. Is this company in a better financial situation than one with a debt ratio of 40%? The answer depends on the industry.
A debt ratio of 30% may be too high for an industry with volatile cash flows, in which most businesses take on little debt. A company with a high debt ratio relative to its peers would probably find it expensive to borrow and could find itself in a crunch if circumstances change. Conversely, a debt level of 40% may be easily manageable for a company in a sector such as utilities, where cash flows are stable and higher debt ratios are the norm.
A debt ratio greater than 1.0 (100%) tells you that a company has more debt than assets. Meanwhile, a debt ratio of less than 100% indicates that a company has more assets than debt. Used in conjunction with other measures of financial health, the debt ratio can help investors determine a company's risk level.






The concept of comparing total assets to total debt also relates to entities that may not be businesses. For example, the United States Department of Agriculture keeps a close eye on how the relationship between farmland assets, debt, and equity change over time.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Debt Ratio  
  Pros of Debt Ratio  

The debt ratio is a simple ratio that is easy to compute and comprehend. It gives a fast overview of how much debt a firm has in comparison to all of its assets. Because public companies must report these figures as part of their periodic external reporting, the information is often readily available.



The debt ratio aids in determining a company's capacity to service its long-term debt commitments. As discussed earlier, a lower debt ratio signifies that the business is more financially solid and lowers the chance of insolvency. With this information, investors can leverage historical data to make more informed investment decisions on where they think the company's financial health may go.



Last, businesses in the same industry can be contrasted using their debt ratios. It offers a comparison point to determine whether a company's debt levels are higher or lower than those of its competitors. As is the story with most financial ratios, you can take the calculation and compare it over time, against competitors, or against benchmarks to truly extract the most valuable information from the ratio.


  Cons of Debt Ratio  

There are also several downsides to the debt ratio as well. The debt ratio doesn't reveal the type of debt or how much it will cost. The periods and interest rates of various debts may differ, which can have a substantial effect on a company's financial stability. In addition, the debt ratio depends on accounting information which may construe or manipulate account balances as required for external reports.



The debt ratio does not take a company's profitability into account. If its assets provide large earnings, a highly leveraged corporation may have a low debt ratio, making it less hazardous. Contrarily, if the company's assets yield low returns, a low debt ratio does not automatically translate into profitability.



It's great to compare debt ratios across companies; however, capital intensity and debt needs vary widely across sectors. The financial health of a firm may not be accurately represented by comparing debt ratios across industries. Bear in mind how certain industries may necessitate higher debt ratios due to the initial investment needed.



Last, the debt ratio is a constant indicator of a company's financial standing at a certain moment in time. Acquisitions, sales, or changes in asset prices are just a few of the variables that might quickly affect the debt ratio. As a result, drawing conclusions purely based on historical debt ratios without taking into account future predictions may mislead analysts.





Pros

Is a pretty simple ratio can be easily calculated
Leverages fairly accessible information from public companies
Provides useful insights into how a company's long-term health is positioned
Can be used to compare companies, timeframes, or benchmarks



Cons

Does not discriminate around different types of debt or loan terms
Does not consider or reflect on a company's profitability
Can't always be used to compare across companies in different industries
May not appropriately consider future implications of business decisions





   Special Considerations  

Some sources consider the debt ratio to be total liabilities divided by total assets. This reflects a certain ambiguity between the terms debt and liabilities that depends on the circumstance. The debt-to-equity ratio, for example, is closely related to and more common than the debt ratio, instead, using total liabilities as the numerator.



Financial data providers calculate it using only long-term and short-term debt (including current portions of long-term debt), excluding liabilities such as accounts payable, negative goodwill, and others.



In the consumer lending and mortgage business, two common debt ratios used to assess a borrower’s ability to repay a loan or mortgage are the gross debt service ratio and the total debt service ratio.



The gross debt ratio is defined as the ratio of monthly housing costs (including mortgage payments, home insurance, and property costs) to monthly income, while the total debt service ratio is the ratio of monthly housing costs plus other debt such as car payments and credit card borrowings to monthly income. Acceptable levels of the total debt service ratio range from the mid-30s to the low-40s in percentage terms.






The higher the debt ratio, the more leveraged a company is, implying greater financial risk. At the same time, leverage is an important tool that companies use to grow, and many businesses find sustainable uses for debt. 


   Debt Ratio vs. Long-Term Debt to Asset Ratio  

While the total debt to total assets ratio includes all debts, the long-term debt to assets ratio only takes into account long-term debts. The debt ratio (total debt to assets) measure takes into account both long-term debts, such as mortgages and securities, and current or short-term debts such as rent, utilities, and loans maturing in less than 12 months.



Both ratios, however, encompass all of a business's assets, including tangible assets such as equipment and inventory and intangible assets such as accounts receivables. Because the total debt to assets ratio includes more of a company's liabilities, this number is almost always higher than a company's long-term debt to assets ratio. 


   Examples of the Debt Ratio  

Let's look at a few examples from different industries to contextualize the debt ratio.


  Starbucks  

Starbucks (SBUX) listed $1.92 million in short-term and current portion of long-term debt on its balance sheet for the fiscal year ended Oct. 2, 2022, and $13.1 billion in long-term debt. The company's total assets were $28 billion. This gives us a debt ratio of $15 billion ÷ $28 billion = 0.5357, or 53.6%.



To assess whether this is high, we should consider the capital expenditures that go into opening a Starbucks, including leasing commercial space, renovating it to fit a certain layout, and purchasing expensive specialty equipment, much of which is used infrequently. The company must also hire and train employees in an industry with exceptionally high employee turnover, adhere to food safety regulations for its more than 18,253 stores in 2022.



Perhaps 53.6% isn't so bad after all when you consider that the industry average was about 75%. The result is that Starbucks has an easy time borrowing money—creditors trust that it is in a solid financial position and can be expected to pay them back in full.


  Meta  

What about a technology company? For the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 2022, Meta (META), formerly Facebook, reported:



Total debt as $14.69 billionTotal assets as $185.7 billion



Using these figures, Meta's debt ratio can be calculated as $14.69 billion ÷ $185.7 billion = 0.079, or 7.9%. The company does not borrow from the corporate bond market. It has an easy enough time raising capital through stock.




What Are Some Common Debt Ratios?
All debt ratios analyze a company's relative debt position. Common debt ratios include debt-to-equity, debt-to-assets, long-term debt-to-assets, and leverage and gearing ratios.




What Is a Good Debt Ratio?
What counts as a good debt ratio will depend on the nature of the business and its industry. Generally speaking, a debt-to-equity or debt-to-assets ratio below 1.0 would be seen as relatively safe, whereas ratios of 2.0 or higher would be considered risky. Some industries, such as banking, are known for having much higher debt-to-equity ratios than others.




What Does a Debt-to-Equity Ratio of 1.5 Indicate?
A debt-to-equity ratio of 1.5 would indicate that the company in question has $1.50 of debt for every $1 of equity. To illustrate, suppose the company had assets of $2 million and liabilities of $1.2 million. Since equity is equal to assets minus liabilities, the company’s equity would be $800,000. Its debt-to-equity ratio would therefore be $1.2 million divided by $800,000, or 1.5.




Can a Debt Ratio Be Negative?
If a company has a negative debt ratio, this would mean that the company has negative shareholder equity. In other words, the company's liabilities outnumber its assets. In most cases, this is considered a very risky sign, indicating that the company may be at risk of bankruptcy.


   The Bottom Line  

Debt ratio is a metric that measures a company's total debt, as a percentage of its total assets. A high debt ratio indicates that a company is highly leveraged, and may have borrowed more money than it can easily pay back. Investors and accountants use debt ratios to assess the risk that a company is likely to default on its obligations.
What Is Debt Restructuring?  

Debt restructuring is a process used by companies, individuals, and even countries to avoid the risk of defaulting on their existing debts, such as by negotiating lower interest rates. Debt restructuring provides a less expensive alternative to bankruptcy when a debtor is in financial turmoil, and it can work to the benefit of both borrower and lender.





Key Takeaways:

Debt restructuring is available to companies, individuals, and even countries.The debt restructuring process can reduce the interest rates on loans or extend the due dates for paying them back.A debt restructuring might include a debt-for-equity swap, in which creditors agree to cancel a portion or all of the outstanding debt in exchange for equity in the business.A nation seeking to restructure its debt might move the debt from the private sector to public sector institutions.


   How Debt Restructuring Works  

Some companies seek to restructure their debt when they are facing the prospect of bankruptcy. The debt restructuring process typically involves getting lenders to agree to reduce the interest rates on loans, extend the dates when the company’s liabilities are due to be paid, or both. These steps improve the company’s chances of paying back its obligations and staying in business. Creditors understand that they would receive even less should the company be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.



Debt restructuring can be a win-win for both sides because the business avoids bankruptcy and the lenders typically receive more than they would have through a bankruptcy proceeding.



The process works much the same for individuals and for nations, although on vastly different scales.





Important

Individuals hoping to restructure their debts can hire a debt relief company to help in the negotiations. But they should make sure they're dealing with a reputable one, not a scam.


   Types of Debt Restructuring  
  Debt restructuring for companies  

Businesses have a number of tools at their disposal for restructuring their debts. One is a debt-for-equity swap. This occurs when creditors agree to cancel a portion, or all, of a company's outstanding debts in exchange for equity (part ownership) in the business. The swap is usually a preferred option when both the outstanding debt and the company's assets are significant and forcing the business to cease operations would be counterproductive. The creditors would rather take control of the distressed company, if that's necessary, as an ongoing concern.



A company seeking to restructure its debt might also renegotiate with its bondholders to "take a haircut"—meaning that a portion of the outstanding interest payments will be written off or a portion of the balance will not be repaid.



A company will often issue callable bonds to protect itself from a situation in which it can't make its interest payments. A bond with a callable feature can be redeemed early by the issuer in times of decreasing interest rates. This allows the issuer to restructure debt in the future because the existing debt can be replaced with new debt at a lower interest rate.


  Debt restructuring for countries  

Countries can face default on their sovereign debt, and this has been the case throughout history. In modern times, some countries opt to restructure their debt with bondholders. This can mean moving the debt from the private sector to public sector institutions that might be better able to handle the impact of a country's default.



Sovereign bondholders may also have to take a haircut by agreeing to accept a reduced percentage of what they are owed, perhaps 25% of their bonds' full value. The maturity dates on bonds can also be extended, giving the government issuer more time to secure the funds it needs to repay its bondholders.



Unfortunately, this type of debt restructuring doesn't have much international oversight, even when restructuring efforts cross borders.


  Debt restructuring for individuals  

Individuals facing insolvency can try to renegotiate terms with their creditors and the tax authorities. For example, someone who is unable to keep making payments on a $250,000 mortgage might reach an agreement with the lending institution to reduce the mortgage to 75%, or $187,500 (75% x $250,000 = $187,500). In return, the lender might receive 40% of the house sale proceeds when it is sold by the mortgagor.



Individuals can attempt to negotiate on their own or with the help of a reputable debt relief company. This is an area that's rife with scams, so they should make sure they know whom they're involving. Investopedia publishes a regularly updated list of the best debt relief companies.
What Is a Debt Security?  

A debt security is a debt instrument that can be bought or sold between two parties and has basic terms defined, such as the notional amount (the amount borrowed), interest rate, and maturity and renewal date.



Examples of debt securities include a government bond, corporate bond, certificate of deposit (CD), municipal bond, or preferred stock. Debt securities can also come in the form of collateralized securities, such as collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs), mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) issued by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA), and zero-coupon securities.





Key Takeaways

Debt securities are financial assets that entitle their owners to a stream of interest payments.Unlike equity securities, debt securities require the borrower to repay the principal borrowed.The interest rate for a debt security will depend on the perceived creditworthiness of the borrower.Bonds, such as government bonds, corporate bonds, municipal bonds, collateralized bonds, and zero-coupon bonds, are common types of debt securities.


   How Debt Securities Work  

A debt security is a type of financial asset that is created when one party lends money to another. For example, corporate bonds are debt securities issued by corporations and sold to investors. Investors lend money to corporations in return for a pre-established number of interest payments, along with the return of their principal upon the bond's maturity date.



Government bonds, on the other hand, are debt securities issued by governments and sold to investors. Investors lend money to the government in return for interest payments (called coupon payments) and a return of their principal upon the bond's maturity.



Debt securities are also known as fixed-income securities because they generate a fixed stream of income from their interest payments. Unlike equity investments, in which the return earned by the investor is dependent on the market performance of the equity issuer, debt instruments guarantee that the investor will receive repayment of their initial principal, plus a predetermined stream of interest payments.



Of course, this contractual guarantee does not mean that debt securities are without risk, since the issuer of the debt security could declare bankruptcy or default on their agreements.


   Risks of Debt Securities  

Because the borrower is legally required to make these payments, debt securities are generally considered to be a less risky form of investment compared to equity investments such as stocks. Of course, as is always the case in investing, the true risk of a particular security will depend on its specific characteristics.



For instance, a company with a strong balance sheet operating in a mature marketplace may be less likely to default on its debts than a startup company operating in an emerging marketplace. In this case, the mature company would likely be given a more favorable credit rating by the three major credit rating agencies: Standard & Poor’s (S&P), Moody’s Corporation, and Fitch Ratings.



In keeping with the general tradeoff between risk and return, companies with higher credit ratings will usually offer lower interest rates on their debt securities and vice versa. For example, as of July 2023, Moody's Seasoned Aaa corporate bond yield is 4.66% whereas its Seasoned Baa corporate bond yield is 5.74%.



Since the Aaa rating denotes a lower perceived risk of credit default, it makes sense that market participants are willing to accept a lower yield in exchange for these less risky securities.


   Debt Securities vs. Equity Securities  

Equity securities represent a claim on the earnings and assets of a corporation, while debt securities are investments in debt instruments. For example, a stock is an equity security, while a bond is a debt security. When an investor buys a corporate bond, they are essentially loaning the corporation money and have the right to be repaid the principal and interest on the bond.






In the event a corporation goes bankrupt, it pays bondholders before shareholders.



In contrast, when someone buys stock from a corporation, they essentially buy a piece of the company. If the company profits, the investor profits as well, but if the company loses money, the stock also loses money.




What Is an Example of a Debt Security?
The most common example of a debt security is a bond, whether that be a government bond or corporate bond. These securities are purchased by an investor and pay out a stream of income in the form of interest payments. At the bond's maturity, the issuer buys back the bond from the investor.




Who Issues Debt Securities?
The most common issuer of debt securities are corporations and governments. Both issue debt securities to raise money: governments to finance projects or for day-to-day operations and corporations to fund growth, pay down other debt, and also to finance day-to-day operations.




What Is the Risk of a Debt Security?
The risk of a debt security is that the issuer defaults on their debt. If the issuer experiences financial hardship, they may no longer be able to make interest payments on their outstanding debt. They may also not be able to repurchase their outstanding debt at maturity, particularly if they go bankrupt.


   The Bottom Line  

Debt securities are debt instruments that investors purchase seeking returns. They are issued by corporations, governments, and other entities in order to raise money to finance various needs. They are an alternative option to equity securities, such as stocks, and are generally considered safer investments. Debt securities, such as bonds, can be a good way for investors to diversify their portfolios.
What Is Debt Service?  

Debt service refers to the money required to cover the payment of interest and principal on a loan or other debt for a particular time period. The term can apply both to individual debts, such as a home mortgage or student loan, and corporate or government debt, such as business loans and debt-based securities such as bonds.



The ability to service debt is a key factor when a person applies for a loan or a company needs to raise additional capital to operate its business. To “service a debt” means to make the necessary payments on it.





Key Takeaways

Debt service refers to the money required to pay the principal and interest on an outstanding debt for a particular period of time.The debt service ratio is a tool used to measure a company’s leverage.Prospective lenders or bond buyers want to know that a company will be able to cover any new debt on top of its current debt load.To carry a high debt load, a company must generate consistent and reliable profits to service its debts.












Zoe Hansen / Investopedia


   How Debt Service Works in Business  

Before a company approaches a bank or other lender for a commercial loan or decides what rate of interest to offer on a new bond issue, it will need to consider its debt-service coverage ratio (DSCR). This ratio compares the company’s net operating income with the amount of principal and interest that it is obligated to pay on its current debts. If a lender decides that a business cannot generate consistent earnings to service the new debt along with its existing debts, then the lender won’t make the loan.



Both lenders and bond investors are interested in a firm’s leverage. That refers to the total amount of debt a company uses to finance asset purchases. If a business intends to take on more debt, it needs to generate higher profits to service the debt, and it must be able to consistently generate profits to carry a high debt load. A company that is generating excess earnings may be able to service additional debt, but it must continue to produce a profit every year sufficient to cover the year’s debt service. A company that has taken on too much debt relative to its income is said to be overleveraged.



Decisions about debt affect a company’s capital structure, which is the proportion of total capital raised through debt vs. equity (i.e., selling shares). A company with consistent, reliable earnings can raise more funds using debt, while a business with inconsistent profits must issue equity, such as common stock, to raise funds.



For example, utility companies have the ability to generate consistent earnings, in part because they often have no competitors. These companies raise the majority of their capital using debt, with less of it raised through equity.


   Example of a Debt-Service Coverage Ratio Calculation  

As mentioned, the debt-service coverage ratio is defined as net operating income divided by total debt service. Net operating income refers only to the earnings generated from a company’s normal business operations.



Suppose, for example, that ABC Manufacturing makes furniture and that it sells one of its warehouses for a gain. The profit it receives from the warehouse sale is nonoperating income because the transaction is unusual.



If ABC’s furniture sales produced annual net operating income totaling $10 million, then that number would be used in the debt service calculation. So if ABC’s principal and interest payments for the year total $2 million, its debt-service coverage ratio would be 5 ($10 million in income divided by $2 million in debt service). Because of that relatively high ratio, ABC is in a good position to take on more debt if it wishes to do so.




What is a good debt-service coverage ratio?
Generally speaking, the higher, the better. But business lenders will usually want to see a ratio of at least 1.25.A debt-service ratio of 1, for example, means that a company is devoting all of its available income to paying off debt—a precarious position that would likely make further borrowing impossible.Companies can also have a debt-service coverage ratio of less than 1, meaning that it costs them more to service their debt than they are generating in income. However, a business in that situation might not survive for long.




What is a debt-to-income (DTI) ratio?
A debt-to-income (DTI) ratio is similar to a debt-service coverage ratio, although typically used in personal (nonbusiness) borrowing. The DTI ratio measures an individual’s ability to service their debts by dividing their gross income by their debt obligations for the same time period. For example, someone who earns $5,000 a month and pays $2,000 a month on their mortgage will have a DTI of 40%. An acceptable DTI will vary from lender to lender and according to the type of loan product.




Is loan servicing the same as debt servicing?
While they sound similar, loan servicing and debt servicing are two different things. Loan servicing refers to administrative work performed by lenders or by other companies they hire, such as sending out monthly statements to borrowers and processing their payments. Debt servicing refers to the process of a borrower paying down a loan or other debt.


   The Bottom Line  

Debt service refers to the money that a person, business, or government needs to cover the payments on a loan or other debt for a particular time period. A company’s debt-service coverage ratio measures its ability to handle additional debt by comparing its available income to the amount it is currently paying to service its debts.
What Is the Debt-Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR)?  

The debt-service coverage ratio (DSCR) measures a firm's available cash flow to pay current debt obligations. The DSCR shows investors and lenders whether a company has enough income to pay its debts. The ratio is calculated by dividing net operating income by debt service, including principal and interest.





Key Takeaways

The debt-service coverage ratio (DSCR) is a measure of the cash flow available to pay current debt obligations.DSCR measures a business’s cash flow versus its debt obligations.Lenders use DSCR to determine whether a business has enough net operating income to pay back loans.DSCR equals net operating income divided by debt service, including principal and interest.












Mira Norian (Investopedia)


   Understanding Debt-Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR)  

The debt-service coverage ratio is a widely used indicator of a company's financial health, especially those who are highly leveraged with debt. Debt service refers to the cash needed to pay the required principal and interest of a loan during a given period.



The ratio compares a company's total debt obligations to its operating income. Lenders, stakeholders, and partners target DSCR metrics, and DSCR terms and minimums are often included in loan agreements.


   Calculating DSCR  

The formula for the debt-service coverage ratio requires net operating income and the total debt servicing for a company. Net operating income is a company's revenue minus certain operating expenses (COE), not including taxes and interest payments. It is often considered equal to earnings before interest and tax (EBIT).















DSCR


=



Net Operating Income


Total Debt Service

















where:
















Net Operating Income


=


Revenue


−


COE
















COE


=


Certain operating expenses
















Total Debt Service


=


Current debt obligations







\begin{aligned} &\text{DSCR} = \frac{ \text{Net Operating Income} }{ \text{Total Debt Service} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Net Operating Income} = \text{Revenue} - \text{COE} \\ &\text{COE} = \text{Certain operating expenses} \\ &\text{Total Debt Service} = \text{Current debt obligations} \\ \end{aligned}


​DSCR=Total Debt ServiceNet Operating Income​where:Net Operating Income=Revenue−COECOE=Certain operating expensesTotal Debt Service=Current debt obligations​
Total debt service refers to current debt obligations, meaning any interest, principal, sinking fund, and lease payments due in the coming year. On a balance sheet, this will include short-term debt and the current portion of long-term debt.
Income taxes complicate DSCR calculations because interest payments are tax-deductible, while principal repayments are not. A more accurate way to calculate total debt service is, therefore, to compute the following:















TDS


=


(


Interest


×


(


1


−


Tax Rate


)


)


+


Principal
















where:
















TDS


=


Total debt service







\begin{aligned} &\text{TDS} = ( \text{Interest} \times ( 1 - \text{Tax Rate} ) ) + \text{Principal} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{TDS} = \text{Total debt service} \\ \end{aligned}


​TDS=(Interest×(1−Tax Rate))+Principalwhere:TDS=Total debt service​


   Lender Considerations  

The debt-service coverage ratio reflects the ability to service debt given income level. DSCR shows how healthy a company's cash flow is and can determine how likely a business is to qualify for a loan.



Lenders routinely assess a borrower's DSCR. A DSCR of 1 indicates a company has exactly enough operating income to pay off its debt service costs. A DSCR of less than 1 denotes a negative cash flow, and the borrower may be unable to cover or pay current debt obligations without drawing on outside sources or borrowing more. A DSCR of 0.95 means there is only sufficient net operating income to cover 95% of annual debt payments.



If the debt-service coverage ratio is too close to 1, the entity may appear vulnerable, and a minor decline in cash flow could render it unable to service its debt. Lenders may require the borrower to maintain a minimum DSCR while the loan is outstanding.





2.0 or Greater

Though there is no industry standard, a DSCR of at least 2 is considered very strong and shows that a company can cover two times its debt. Many lenders will set minimum DSCR requirements between 1.2 and 1.25.


   Interest Coverage Ratio vs. DSCR  

The interest coverage ratio indicates the number of times that a company's operating profit will cover the interest it must pay on all debts for a given period. This is expressed as a ratio and is most often computed annually. Divide the EBIT for the established period by the total interest payments due for that same period. The EBIT, often called net operating income or operating profit, is calculated by subtracting overhead and operating expenses, such as rent, cost of goods, freight, wages, and utilities, from revenue.



The higher the ratio of EBIT to interest payments, the more financially stable the company. This metric only considers interest payments and not payments made on principal debt balances that may be required by lenders.



The debt-service coverage ratio assesses a company's ability to meet its minimum principal and interest payments, including sinking fund payments. To calculate DSCR, EBIT is divided by the total amount of principal and interest payments required for a given period to obtain net operating income. Because it takes into account principal payments in addition to interest, the DSCR is a more robust indicator of a company's financial fitness.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of DSCR  
  Advantages of DSCR  

DSCR, like other ratios, have value when calculated consistently over time. A company can calculate monthly DSCR to analyze its average trend over some time and project future ratios. For example, a declining DSCR may be an early signal for a decline in a company's financial health. Alternatively, it can be used extensively in budgeting or strategic planning.



DSCR may also have comparability across different companies. Management may use DSCR calculations from its competitors to analyze how it is performing relative to others, including analyzing how efficient other companies may be in using loans to drive company growth.



DSCR is also a more comprehensive analytical technique when assessing the long-term financial health of a company. Compared to the interest coverage ratio, DSCR is a more conservative, broad calculation. DSCR is also an annualized ratio that often represents a moving 12-month period. Other financial ratios are usually a single snapshot of a company's health; therefore, DSCR may be a more true representation of a company's operations.


  Disadvantages of DSCR  

The DSCR calculation may be adjusted to be based on net operating income, EBIT, or EBITDA (depending on the lender's requirement). If operating income, EBIT, or EBITDA are used, the company's income is potentially overstated because not all expenses are being considered. For example, in all three examples, income is not inclusive of taxes.



Another limitation of DSCR is its reliance on accounting guidance. Though debt and loans are rooted in obligatory cash payments, DSCR is partially calculated on accrual-based accounting guidance. Therefore, there is a little bit of inconsistency when reviewing both a set of GAAP-based financial statements and a loan agreement that stipulates fixed cash payments.




DSCR 

Advantages

Can be calculated over a period of time to better understand a company's financial trend
May be used to compare operational efficiency across companies
Includes more financial categories (i.e., principal repayments) than other financial ratios
May be a more comprehensive analysis of a company's financial health as it is often calculated on a rolling annual basis



Disadvantages

May not fully incorporate a company's finances as some expenses (i.e., taxes) may be excluded
Has heavy reliance on accounting guidance which may widely vary from actual timing of cash needs
May be consider a more complex formula compared to other financial ratios
Does not have consistent treatment or requirement from one lender to another





   Example of DSCR  

Let's say a real estate developer is seeking a mortgage loan from a local bank. The lender will want to calculate the DSCR to determine the ability of the developer to borrow and pay off their loan as the rental properties they build generate income.
The developer indicates that net operating income will be $2,150,000 per year, and the lender notes that debt service will be $350,000 per year. The DSCR is calculated as 6.14x, or the borrower can cover their debt service more than six times, given their operating income.















DSCR


=




$


2


,


150


,


000




$


350


,


000




=


6.14







\begin{aligned} &\text{DSCR} = \frac{ \$2,150,000 }{ \$350,000 } = 6.14 \\ \end{aligned}


​DSCR=$350,000$2,150,000​=6.14​


  Example of Lender Terms  

In the imagine below, MK Lending Corp has outlined its debt requirements for new mortgages. The columns highlighted yellow represent investors with a DSCR greater or equal to 1.0, while the orange columns represent investors with a DSCR less than 1.0. Because the yellow investors are less risky, their loan terms and LTV/CLTV terms are more favorable than the orange investors.















MK Lending Corp, Select DSCR Terms.
MK Lending Corp


  Example of Loan Agreement  

In the example below, Sun Country, Inc. entered into an agreement with the U.S. Department of Treasury and the Bank of New York Mellon. As part of the loan and guarantee agreement, Sun Country agreed to several financial covenants.



In the examples below, certain trigger events will occur should Sun Country's DSCR fall below a specified level. When triggers occur, certain stopgaps will be enacted to protect the lenders. For example, the lenders will receive 50% of select revenues for a specific amount of time should Sun Country's DSCR drop below 1.00.















Loan Agreement, Example DSCR Covenants.




How Do You Calculate the Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR)?
The DSCR is calculated by taking net operating income and dividing it by total debt service (which includes the principal and interest payments on a loan). For example, if a business has a net operating income of $100,000 and a total debt service of $60,000, its DSCR would be approximately 1.67.




Why Is the DSCR Important?
DSCR is a commonly used metric when negotiating loan contracts between companies and banks. For instance, a business applying for a line of credit might be obligated to ensure that their DSCR does not dip below 1.25. If it does, the borrower could be found to have defaulted on the loan. In addition to helping banks manage their risks, DSCRs can also help analysts and investors when analyzing a company’s financial strength.




What Is a Good DSCR?
A “good” DSCR depends on the company’s industry, competitors, and growth. A smaller company just beginning to generate cash flow might face lower DSCR expectations compared to a mature company already well-established. As a general rule, however, a DSCR above 1.25 is often considered “strong,” whereas ratios below 1.00 could indicate that the company is facing financial difficulties.


   The Bottom Line  

DSCR is a commonly used financial ratio that compares a company's operating income to the company's debt payments. The ratio can be used to assess whether a company has the income to meet its principal and interest obligations. The DSCR is commonly used by lenders or external parties to mitigate risk in loan terms.



Correction—May 17, 2023: This article has been amended to state that a DSCR of 1.0 indicates a business has exactly enough net operating income to cover its debt obligations, but lenders may require a DSCR greater than 1.0 to obtain funding.
What Is the Debt-To-Capital Ratio?  

The debt-to-capital ratio is a measurement of a company's financial leverage. The debt-to-capital ratio is calculated by taking the company's interest-bearing debt, both short- and long-term liabilities and dividing it by the total capital. Total capital is all interest-bearing debt plus shareholders' equity, which may include items such as common stock, preferred stock, and minority interest.





Key Takeaways

Measurement of a company's financial leverage, calculated by taking the company's interest-bearing debt and dividing it by total capital. All else equal, the higher the debt-to-capital ratio, the riskier the company.While most companies finance their operations through a mixture of debt and equity, looking at the total debt of a company may not provide the best information.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   The Formula for Debt-To-Capital Ratio  

﻿




Debt-To-Capital Ratio


=




D


e


b


t




D


e


b


t


 


+


 


S


h


a


r


e


h


o


l


d


e


r



s


′



 


E


q


u


i


t


y





\text{Debt-To-Capital Ratio} = \frac{Debt}{Debt \text{ }+\text{ } Shareholders'\ Equity}


Debt-To-Capital Ratio=Debt + Shareholders′ EquityDebt​﻿



The debt-to-capital ratio is calculated by dividing a company’s total debt by its total capital, which is total debt plus total shareholders’ equity.


   What Does Debt-To-Capital Ratio Tell You?  

The debt-to-capital ratio gives analysts and investors a better idea of a company's financial structure and whether or not the company is a suitable investment. All else being equal, the higher the debt-to-capital ratio, the riskier the company. This is because a higher ratio, the more the company is funded by debt than equity, which means a higher liability to repay the debt and a greater risk of forfeiture on the loan if the debt cannot be paid timely.



However, while a specific amount of debt may be crippling for one company, the same amount could barely affect another. Thus, using total capital gives a more accurate picture of the company's health because it frames debt as a percentage of capital rather than as a dollar amount.


   Example of How to Use Debt-To-Capital Ratio  

As an example, assume a firm has $100 million in liabilities comprised of the following:



Notes payable $5 millionBonds payable $20 millionAccounts payable $10 millionAccrued expenses $6 millionDeferred income $3 millionLong-term liabilities $55 millionOther long-term liabilities $1 million



Of these, only notes payable, bonds payable, and long-term liabilities are interest-bearing securities, the sum of which total $5 million + $20 million + $55 million = $80 million.



As for equity, the company has $20 million worth of preferred stock and $3 million of minority interest listed on the books. The company has 10 million shares of common stock outstanding, which is currently trading at $20 per share. Total equity is $20 million + $3 million + ($20 x 10 million shares) = $223 million. Using these numbers, the calculation for the company's debt-to-capital ratio is:



Debt-to-capital = $80 million / ($80 million + $223) = $80 million / $303 million = 26.4%



Assume this company is being considered as an investment by a portfolio manager. If the portfolio manager looks at another company that had a debt-to-capital ratio of 40%, all else equal, the referenced company is a safer choice since its financial leverage is approximately half that of the compared company's.



As a real-life example, consider Caterpillar (NYSE: CAT), which has $36.6 billion in total debt as of December 2018.﻿﻿ Its shareholders’ equity for the same quarter was $14 billion.﻿﻿ Thus, its debt-to-capital ratio is 73%, or $36.6 billion / ($36.6 billion + $14 billion).


   The Difference Between Debt-To-Capital Ratio and Debt Ratio  

Unlike the debt-to-capital ratio, the debt ratio divides total debt by total assets. The debt ratio is a measure of how much of a company’s assets are financed with debt. The two numbers can be very similar, as total assets are equal to total liabilities plus total shareholder’ equity. However, for the debt-to-capital ratio, it excludes all other liabilities besides interest-bearing debt.


   Limitations of Using Debt-To-Capital Ratio  

The debt-to-capital ratio may be affected by the accounting conventions a company uses. Often, values on a company's financial statements are based on historical cost accounting and may not reflect the true current market values. Thus, it is very important to be certain the correct values are used in the calculation, so the ratio does not become distorted.
What Is Debt-to-Equity (D/E) Ratio?  

Debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio is used to evaluate a company’s financial leverage and is calculated by dividing a company’s total liabilities by its shareholder equity. D/E ratio is an important metric in corporate finance. It is a measure of the degree to which a company is financing its operations with debt rather than its own resources. Debt-to-equity ratio is a particular type of gearing ratio.





Key Takeaways

Debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio compares a company’s total liabilities with its shareholder equity and can be used to assess the extent of its reliance on debt.D/E ratios vary by industry and are best used to compare direct competitors or to measure change in the company’s reliance on debt over time.Among similar companies, a higher D/E ratio suggests more risk, while a particularly low one may indicate that a business is not taking advantage of debt financing to expand.Investors will often modify the D/E ratio to consider only long-term debt because it carries more risk than short-term obligations.












Investopedia / Katie Kerpel


   D/E Ratio Formula and Calculation  
















Debt/Equity


=



Total Liabilities


Total Shareholders’ Equity








\begin{aligned} &\text{Debt/Equity} = \frac{ \text{Total Liabilities} }{ \text{Total Shareholders' Equity} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Debt/Equity=Total Shareholders’ EquityTotal Liabilities​​



The information needed to calculate D/E ratio can be found on a listed company’s balance sheet. Subtracting the value of liabilities on the balance sheet from that of total assets shown there provides the figure for shareholder equity, which is a rearranged version of this balance sheet equation:


















Assets


=


Liabilities


+


Shareholder Equity







\begin{aligned} &\text{Assets} = \text{Liabilities} + \text{Shareholder Equity} \\ \end{aligned}


​Assets=Liabilities+Shareholder Equity​



These balance sheet categories may include items that would not normally be considered debt or equity in the traditional sense of a loan or an asset. Because the ratio can be distorted by retained earnings or losses, intangible assets, and pension plan adjustments, further research is usually needed to understand to what extent a company relies on debt.



To get a clearer picture and facilitate comparisons, analysts and investors will often modify the D/E ratio. They also assess the D/E ratio in the context of short-term leverage ratios, profitability, and growth expectations.












Melissa Ling © Investopedia 2019


  How to Calculate D/E Ratio in Excel  

Business owners use a variety of software to track D/E ratios and other financial metrics. Microsoft Excel provides a balance sheet template that automatically calculates financial ratios such as D/E ratio and debt ratio. Or you could enter the values for total liabilities and shareholders’ equity in adjacent spreadsheet cells, say B2 and B3, then add the formula “=B2/B3” in cell B4 to obtain the D/E ratio.


   What Does D/E Ratio Tell You?  

D/E ratio measures how much debt a company has taken on relative to the value of its assets net of liabilities. Debt must be repaid or refinanced, imposes interest expense that typically can’t be deferred, and could impair or destroy the value of equity in the event of a default. As a result, a high D/E ratio is often associated with high investment risk; it means that a company relies primarily on debt financing.



Debt-financed growth may serve to increase earnings, and if the incremental profit increase exceeds the related rise in debt service costs, then shareholders should expect to benefit. However, if the additional cost of debt financing outweighs the additional income that it generates, then the share price may drop. The cost of debt and a company’s ability to service it can vary with market conditions. As a result, borrowing that seemed prudent at first can prove unprofitable later under different circumstances.



Changes in long-term debt and assets tend to affect D/E ratio the most because the numbers involved tend to be larger than for short-term debt and short-term assets. If investors want to evaluate a company’s short-term leverage and its ability to meet debt obligations that must be paid over a year or less, they can use other ratios.



For example, cash ratio evaluates a company’s near-term liquidity:


















Cash Ratio


=




Cash


+


Marketable Securities



Short-Term Liabilities 








\begin{aligned} &\text{Cash Ratio} = \frac{ \text{Cash} + \text{Marketable Securities} }{ \text{Short-Term Liabilities } } \\ \end{aligned}


​Cash Ratio=Short-Term Liabilities Cash+Marketable Securities​​



So does current ratio:


















Current Ratio


=



Short-Term Assets


Short-Term Liabilities 








\begin{aligned} &\text{Current Ratio} = \frac{ \text{Short-Term Assets} }{ \text{Short-Term Liabilities } } \\ \end{aligned}


​Current Ratio=Short-Term Liabilities Short-Term Assets​​


   Example of D/E Ratio  

Let’s consider a historical example from Apple Inc. (AAPL). We can see below that for the fiscal year (FY) ended 2017, Apple had total liabilities of $241 billion (rounded) and total shareholders’ equity of $134 billion, according to the company’s 10-K statement.













Using the above formula, the D/E ratio for Apple can be calculated as:












Debt-to-equity


=




$


241


,


000


,


000




$


134


,


000


,


000




=


1.80







\begin{aligned} \text{Debt-to-equity} = \frac { \$241,000,000 }{ \$134,000,000 } = 1.80 \\ \end{aligned}


Debt-to-equity=$134,000,000$241,000,000​=1.80​



The result means that Apple had $1.80 of debt for every dollar of equity. But on its own, the ratio doesn’t give investors the complete picture. It’s important to compare the ratio with that of other similar companies.


   Modifying the D/E Ratio  

Not all debt is equally risky. The long-term D/E ratio focuses on riskier long-term debt by using its value instead of that for total liabilities in the numerator of the standard formula:



Long-term D/E ratio = Long-term debt ÷ Shareholder equity



Short-term debt also increases a company’s leverage, of course, but because these liabilities must be paid in a year or less, they aren’t as risky. For example, imagine a company with $1 million in short-term payables (wages, accounts payable, notes, etc.) and $500,000 in long-term debt, compared with a company with $500,000 in short-term payables and $1 million in long-term debt. If both companies have $1.5 million in shareholder equity, then they both have a D/E ratio of 1. On the surface, the risk from leverage is identical, but in reality, the second company is riskier.



As a rule, short-term debt tends to be cheaper than long-term debt and is less sensitive to shifts in interest rates, meaning that the second company’s interest expense and cost of capital are likely higher. If interest rates are higher when the long-term debt comes due and needs to be refinanced, then interest expense will rise.



Finally, if we assume that the company will not default over the next year, then debt due sooner shouldn’t be a concern. In contrast, a company’s ability to service long-term debt will depend on its long-term business prospects, which are less certain.


   D/E Ratio for Personal Finances  

D/E ratio can apply to personal financial statements as well, serving as a personal D/E ratio. Here, equity refers to the difference between the total value of an individual’s assets and their aggregate debt, or liabilities. The formula for personal D/E ratio is slightly different:


















Debt/Equity


=



Total Personal Liabilities



Personal Assets


−


Liabilities









\begin{aligned} &\text{Debt/Equity} = \frac{ \text{Total Personal Liabilities} }{ \text{Personal Assets} - \text{Liabilities} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Debt/Equity=Personal Assets−LiabilitiesTotal Personal Liabilities​​



Personal D/E ratio is often used when an individual or a small business is applying for a loan. Lenders use the D/E figure to assess a loan applicant’s ability to continue making loan payments in the event of a temporary loss of income.



For example, a prospective mortgage borrower is more likely to be able to continue making payments during a period of extended unemployment if they have more assets than debt. This is also true for an individual applying for a small business loan or a line of credit. If the business owner has a good personal D/E ratio, it is more likely that they can continue making loan payments until their debt-financed investment starts paying off.


   D/E Ratio vs. Gearing Ratio  

Gearing ratios constitute a broad category of financial ratios, of which the D/E ratio is the best known. “Gearing” is a term for financial leverage.



Gearing ratios focus more heavily on the concept of leverage than other ratios used in accounting or investment analysis. The underlying principle generally assumes that some leverage is good, but that too much places an organization at risk.






Debt-to-equity ratio is most useful when used to compare direct competitors. If a company’s D/E ratio significantly exceeds those of others in its industry, then its stock could be more risky.


   Limitations of D/E Ratio  

When using D/E ratio, it is very important to consider the industry in which the company operates. Because different industries have different capital needs and growth rates, a D/E ratio value that’s common in one industry might be a red flag in another.



Utility stocks often have especially high D/E ratios. As a highly regulated industry making large investments typically at a stable rate of return and generating a steady income stream, utilities borrow heavily and relatively cheaply. High leverage ratios in slow-growth industries with stable income represent an efficient use of capital. Companies in the consumer staples sector tend to have high D/E ratios for similar reasons.



Analysts are not always consistent about what is defined as debt. For example, preferred stock is sometimes considered equity, since preferred dividend payments are not legal obligations and preferred shares rank below all debt (but above common stock) in the priority of their claim on corporate assets. On the other hand, the typically steady preferred dividend, par value, and liquidation rights make preferred shares look more like debt.



Including preferred stock in total debt will increase the D/E ratio and make a company look riskier. Including preferred stock in the equity portion of the D/E ratio will increase the denominator and lower the ratio. This is a particularly thorny issue in analyzing industries notably reliant on preferred stock financing, such as real estate investment trusts (REITs).




What is a good debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio?
What counts as a “good” debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio will depend on the nature of the business and its industry. Generally speaking, a D/E ratio below 1 would be seen as relatively safe, whereas values of 2 or higher might be considered risky. Companies in some industries, such as utilities, consumer staples, and banking, typically have relatively high D/E ratios. Note that a particularly low D/E ratio may be a negative, suggesting that the company is not taking advantage of debt financing and its tax advantages. (Business interest expense is usually tax deductible, while dividend payments are subject to corporate and personal income tax.)




What does a D/E ratio of 1.5 indicate?
A D/E ratio of 1.5 would indicate that the company in question has $1.50 of debt for every $1 of equity. To illustrate, suppose the company had assets of $2 million and liabilities of $1.2 million. Because equity is equal to assets minus liabilities, the company’s equity would be $800,000. Its D/E ratio would therefore be $1.2 million divided by $800,000, or 1.5.




What does a negative D/E ratio signal?
If a company has a negative D/E ratio, this means that it has negative shareholder equity. In other words, the company’s liabilities exceed its assets. In most cases, this would be considered a sign of high risk and an incentive to seek bankruptcy protection.




What industries have high D/E ratios?
In the banking and financial services sector, a relatively high D/E ratio is commonplace. Banks carry higher amounts of debt because they own substantial fixed assets in the form of branch networks. Higher D/E ratios can also tend to predominate in other capital-intensive sectors heavily reliant on debt financing, such as airlines and industrials.




How can D/E ratio be used to measure a company’s riskiness?
A steadily rising D/E ratio may make it harder for a company to obtain financing in the future. The growing reliance on debt could eventually lead to difficulties in servicing the company’s current loan obligations. Very high D/E ratios may eventually result in a loan default or bankruptcy.


   The Bottom Line  

Debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio can help investors identify highly leveraged companies that may pose risks during business downturns. Investors can compare a company’s D/E ratio with the average for its industry and those of competitors to gain a sense of a company’s reliance on debt. But not all high D/E ratios signal poor business prospects. In fact, debt can enable the company to grow and generate additional income. But if a company has grown increasingly reliant on debt or inordinately so for its industry, potential investors will want to investigate further.
What Is the Debt-to-GDP Ratio?  

The debt-to-GDP ratio is the metric comparing a country's public debt to its gross domestic product (GDP). By comparing what a country owes with what it produces, the debt-to-GDP ratio reliably indicates that particular country’s ability to pay back its debts. Often expressed as a percentage, this ratio can also be interpreted as the number of years needed to pay back debt if GDP is dedicated entirely to debt repayment.





Key Takeaways

The debt-to-GDP ratio is the ratio of a country's public debt to its gross domestic product.The debt-to-GDP ratio can also be interpreted as the number of years it would take to pay back debt if GDP was used for repayment.The higher the debt-to-GDP ratio, the less likely the country will pay back its debt and the higher its risk of default, which could cause a financial panic in the domestic and international markets.


   Formula and Calculation of the Debt-to-GDP Ratio  

The debt-to-GDP ratio is calculated by the following formula:


















Debt to GDP


=



Total Debt of Country


Total GDP of Country








\begin{aligned} &\text{Debt to GDP} = \frac{ \text{Total Debt of Country} }{ \text{Total GDP of Country} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Debt to GDP=Total GDP of CountryTotal Debt of Country​​



A country able to continue paying interest on its debt—without refinancing, and without hampering economic growth—is generally considered to be stable. A country with a high debt-to-GDP ratio typically has trouble paying off external debts (also called public debts), which are any balances owed to outside lenders. In such scenarios, creditors are apt to seek higher interest rates when lending.






Extravagantly high debt-to-GDP ratios may deter creditors from lending money altogether.


   What the Debt-to-GDP Ratio Can Tell You  

When a country defaults on its debt, it often triggers financial panic in domestic and international markets alike. As a rule, the higher a country’s debt-to-GDP ratio climbs, the higher its risk of default becomes.



Although governments strive to lower their debt-to-GDP ratios, this can be difficult to achieve during periods of unrest, such as wartime or economic recession. In such challenging climates, governments tend to increase borrowing to stimulate growth and boost aggregate demand. This macroeconomic strategy is attributed to Keynesian economics.



Economists who adhere to modern monetary theory (MMT) argue that sovereign nations capable of printing their own money cannot ever go bankrupt, because they can simply produce more fiat currency to service debts; however, this rule does not apply to countries that do not control their monetary policies, such as European Union (EU) nations, who must rely on the European Central Bank (ECB) to issue euros.


  Good vs. Bad Debt-to-GDP Ratios  

A study by the World Bank found that countries whose debt-to-GDP ratios exceed 77% for prolonged periods experience significant slowdowns in economic growth. Pointedly, every percentage point of debt above this level costs countries 0.017 percentage points in economic growth. This phenomenon is even more pronounced in emerging markets, where each additional percentage point of debt over 64% annually slows growth by 0.02%.





122.8%

U.S. debt-to-GDP for Q2 2023—almost double early 2008 levels but down from the all-time high of 134.8% seen in Q2 2020.



The U.S. has had a debt-to-GDP of over 77% since Q1 2009. To put these figures into perspective, the U.S.’s highest debt-to-GDP ratio was previously 106% at the end of World War II, in 1946.



Debt levels gradually fell from their post-World War II peak, before plateauing between 31% and 40% in the 1970s—ultimately hitting a historic 23% low in 1974. Ratios have steadily risen since 1980 and then jumped sharply following 2007’s subprime housing crisis and the subsequent financial meltdown. Ratios then spiked during the Covid-19 pandemic to reach new highs.



The landmark 2010 study entitled "Growth in a Time of Debt," conducted by Harvard economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff, painted a gloomy picture of countries with high debt-to-GDP ratios; however, a 2013 review of the study identified coding errors, as well as the selective exclusion of data, which purportedly led Reinhart and Rogoff to make errant conclusions.


   Special Considerations  

The U.S. government finances its debt by issuing U.S. Treasuries, which are widely considered to be the safest bonds on the market.



The countries and regions with the 10 largest holdings of U.S. Treasuries (as of June 2023) are as follows:



Japan: $1.1 trillionChina, Mainland: $835 billionUnited Kingdom: $672 billionBelgium: $332 billionLuxembourg: $332 billionSwitzerland: $306 billionIreland: $271 billionCanada: $271 billionCayman Islands: $264 billionTaiwan: $241 billion




What Is the Main Risk of a High Debt-to-GDP Ratio?
High debt-to-GDP ratios could be a key indicator of increased default risk for a country. Country defaults can trigger financial repercussions globally.




How Does Modern Monetary Theory View National Debt?
Modern monetary theory (MMT) suggests sovereign countries do not need to rely on taxes or borrowing for spending since they can print as much as they need. Since their budgets are not constrained, such as the case with regular households, their policies are not shaped by fears of rising national debt.




Which Countries Have the Highest Debt-to-GDP Ratios?
As of 2021 (latest data), Japan had the highest general government debt-to-GDP ratio of the countries for which the IMF had available data, at 262.5%. Next was Venezuela, with a reading of 240.5%. The U.S. was fifth with a debt-to-GDP ratio of 128%.


   The Bottom Line  

The debt-to-GDP ratio is a metric that helps understand a country's ability to pay back its debts. Generally, a lower debt-to-GDP ratio is ideal, as it signals a country is producing more than it owes, placing it on a strong financial footing.
What Is the Debt-to-Income (DTI) Ratio?  

The debt-to-income (DTI) ratio is the percentage of your gross monthly income that goes to paying your monthly debt payments and is used by lenders to determine your borrowing risk.





Key Takeaways

The debt-to-income (DTI) ratio measures the amount of income a person or organization generates in order to service a debt.A DTI of 43% is typically the highest ratio a borrower can have and still get qualified for a mortgage, but lenders generally seek ratios of no more than 36%.A low DTI ratio indicates sufficient income relative to debt servicing, and it makes a borrower more attractive.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding the Debt-to-Income (DTI) Ratio  

A low debt-to-income (DTI) ratio demonstrates a good balance between debt and income. In other words, if your DTI ratio is 15%, that means that 15% of your monthly gross income goes to debt payments each month. Conversely, a high DTI ratio can signal that an individual has too much debt for the amount of income earned each month.



Typically, borrowers with low debt-to-income ratios are likely to manage their monthly debt payments effectively. As a result, banks and financial credit providers want to see low DTI ratios before issuing loans to a potential borrower. The preference for low DTI ratios makes sense since lenders want to be sure a borrower isn't overextended meaning they have too many debt payments relative to their income.



As a general guideline, 43% is the highest DTI ratio a borrower can have and still get qualified for a mortgage. Ideally, lenders prefer a debt-to-income ratio lower than 36%, with no more than 28% of that debt going towards servicing a mortgage or rent payment.



The maximum DTI ratio varies from lender to lender. However, the lower the debt-to-income ratio, the better the chances that the borrower will be approved, or at least considered, for the credit application.


   DTI Formula and Calculation  

The debt-to-income (DTI) ratio is a personal finance measure that compares an individual’s monthly debt payment to their monthly gross income. Your gross income is your pay before taxes and other deductions are taken out. The debt-to-income ratio is the percentage of your gross monthly income that goes to paying your monthly debt payments.



The DTI ratio is one of the metrics that lenders, including mortgage lenders, use to measure an individual’s ability to manage monthly payments and repay debts.





Tip

Order your copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine for more tips about managing debt and building credit.


   Debt-to-Income Ratio Limitations  

Although important, the DTI ratio is only one financial ratio or metric used in making a credit decision. A borrower's credit history and credit score will also weigh heavily in a decision to extend credit to a borrower. A credit score is a numeric value of your ability to pay back a debt. Several factors impact a score negatively or positively, and they include late payments, delinquencies, number of open credit accounts, balances on credit cards relative to their credit limits, or credit utilization.



The DTI ratio does not distinguish between different types of debt and the cost of servicing that debt. Credit cards carry higher interest rates than student loans, but they're lumped in together in the DTI ratio calculation. If you transferred your balances from your high-interest rate cards to a low-interest credit card, your monthly payments would decrease. As a result, your total monthly debt payments and your DTI ratio would decrease, but your total debt outstanding would remain unchanged.



The debt-to-income ratio is an important ratio to monitor when applying for credit, but it's only one metric used by lenders in making a credit decision.


   Debt-to-Income Ratio Example  

John is looking to get a loan and is trying to figure out his debt-to-income ratio. John's monthly bills and income are as follows:



mortgage: $1,000car loan: $500credit cards: $500gross income: $6,000



John's total monthly debt payment is $2,000:








$


2


,


000


=


$


1


,


000


+


$


500


+


$


500



\$2,000 = \$1,000 + \$500 + \$500


$2,000=$1,000+$500+$500



John's DTI ratio is 0.33:








0.33


=


$


2


,


000


÷


$


6


,


000



0.33 = \$2,000 \div \$6,000


0.33=$2,000÷$6,000



In other words, John has a 33% debt-to-income ratio.


   How to Lower a Debt-to-Income Ratio  

You can lower your debt-to-income ratio by reducing your monthly recurring debt or increasing your gross monthly income.



Using the above example, if John has the same recurring monthly debt of $2,000 but his gross monthly income increases to $8,000, his DTI ratio calculation will change to $2,000 ÷ $8,000 for a debt-to-income ratio of 0.25 or 25%.



Similarly, if John’s income stays the same at $6,000, but he is able to pay off his car loan, his monthly recurring debt payments would fall to $1,500 since the car payment was $500 per month. John's DTI ratio would be calculated as $1,500 ÷ $6,000 = 0.25 or 25%.



If John is able to both reduce his monthly debt payments to $1,500 and increase his gross monthly income to $8,000, his DTI ratio would be calculated as $1,500 ÷ $8,000, which equals 0.1875 or 18.75%.



The DTI ratio can also be used to measure the percentage of income that goes toward housing costs, which for renters is the monthly rent amount. Lenders look to see if a potential borrower can manage their current debt load while paying their rent on time, given their gross income.


   Real-World Example of the DTI Ratio  

Wells Fargo Corporation (WFC) is one of the largest lenders in the U.S. The bank provides banking and lending products that include mortgages and credit cards to consumers. Below is an outline of their guidelines of the debt-to-income ratios that they consider creditworthy or need improvement.



35% or less is generally viewed as favorable, and your debt is manageable. You likely have money remaining after paying monthly bills.36% to 49% means your DTI ratio is adequate, but you have room for improvement. Lenders might ask for other eligibility requirements.50% or higher DTI ratio means you have limited money to save or spend. As a result, you won't likely have money to handle an unforeseen event and will have limited borrowing options.




Why Is Debt-to-Income Ratio Important?
The debt-to-income (DTI) ratio is the percentage of your gross monthly income that goes to paying your monthly debt payments and is used by lenders to determine your borrowing risk. A low debt-to-income (DTI) ratio demonstrates a good balance between debt and income. Conversely, a high DTI ratio can signal that an individual has too much debt for the amount of income earned each month. Typically, borrowers with low debt-to-income ratios are likely to manage their monthly debt payments effectively. As a result, banks and financial credit providers want to see low DTI ratios before issuing loans to a potential borrower.




What Is a Good Debt-to-Income Ratio?
As a general guideline, 43% is the highest DTI ratio a borrower can have and still get qualified for a mortgage. Ideally, lenders prefer a debt-to-income ratio lower than 36%, with no more than 28% of that debt going towards servicing a mortgage or rent payment. The maximum DTI ratio varies from lender to lender. However, the lower the debt-to-income ratio, the better the chances that the borrower will be approved, or at least considered, for the credit application.




What Are the Limitations of the Debt-to-Income Ratio?
The DTI ratio does not distinguish between different types of debt and the cost of servicing that debt. Credit cards carry higher interest rates than student loans, but they're lumped in together in the DTI ratio calculation. If you transferred your balances from your high-interest rate cards to a low-interest credit card, your monthly payments would decrease. As a result, your total monthly debt payments and your DTI ratio would decrease, but your total debt outstanding would remain unchanged.




How Does the Debt-to-Income Ratio Differ from the Debt-to-Limit Ratio?
Sometimes the debt-to-income ratio is lumped in together with the debt-to-limit ratio. However, the two metrics have distinct differences. The debt-to-limit ratio, which is also called the credit utilization ratio, is the percentage of a borrower’s total available credit that is currently being utilized. In other words, lenders want to determine if you're maxing out your credit cards. The DTI ratio calculates your monthly debt payments as compared to your income, whereby credit utilization measures your debt balances as compared to the amount of existing credit you've been approved for by credit card companies.
What Is a Debtor?  

A debtor is a company or individual who owes money. If the debt is in the form of a loan from a financial institution, the debtor is referred to as a borrower, and if the debt is in the form of securities—such as bonds—the debtor is referred to as an issuer. Legally, someone who files a voluntary petition to declare bankruptcy is also considered a debtor.





Key Takeaways

Debtors are individuals or businesses that owe money, whether to banks or other individuals. Debtors are often called borrowers if the money owed is to a bank or financial institution, however, they are called issuers if the debt is in the form of securities.Debtors cannot go to jail for not paying consumer debt (e.g. credit cards). The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) prevents bill collectors from threatening debtors with jail time, but courts can send debtors to jail for unpaid taxes or child support. Creditors may have other recourse if there’s collateral, such as repossession, or they can take debtors to court for garnishments.  












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Debtors  

It is not a crime to fail to pay a debt. Except in certain bankruptcy situations, debtors can prioritize their debt repayments as they like, but if they fail to honor the terms of their debt, they may face fees and penalties as well as a drop in their credit scores. Additionally, the creditor may take the debtor to court over the matter. This may lead to liens or encumbrances.






Debtors cannot be sent to jail for unpaid consumer debts, but a court can send a debtor to jail for unpaid child support or taxes.


   Debtor vs. Creditor  

Creditors are the opposite of debtors. Creditors are the ones that extend credit to debtors. Creditors, like debtors, can be a person or entity. Creditors can also be companies that provide supplies. In the case that a company offers supplies or services and will accept payment at a later time, they are acting as a creditor. 



As well, family or friends can also be considered creditors if they’ve lent money, considered a personal creditor. Real creditors are banks or finance companies with a legal contract. Creditors make money off debtors by charging fees or interest.


   Can Debtors Go to Jail for Unpaid Debts?  

In the U.S., debtors' prisons were relatively common until the Civil War era, at which time most states started phasing them out. In contemporary times, debtors do not go to jail for unpaid consumer debt such as credit cards or medical bills. The set of laws governing debt practices activities, known as the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA), forbids bill collectors from threatening debtors with jail time. However, the courts can send debtors to jail for unpaid taxes or child support.



In some cases, there are exceptions to this rule. For example, in some states, if a debtor has been ordered by the court to pay a debt and misses a payment, they are held in contempt of court, and being in contempt of court can result in jail time, thus indirectly sending the person to jail for being a debtor.


   What Laws Protect Debtors?  

The FDCPA is a consumer protection law, designed to protect debtors. This act outlines when bill collectors can call debtors, where they can call them, and how often they can call them. It also emphasizes elements related to the debtor's privacy and other rights. However, this law only pertains to third-party debt collection agencies, such as companies trying to collect debts on behalf of other companies or individuals.


   What Can a Creditor Do If a Debtor Doesn't Pay?  

If a debtor fails to pay a debt, creditors have some recourse to collect it. If the debt is backed by collateral, such as mortgages and car loans backed by houses and cars, the creditor can attempt to repossess the collateral. In other cases, the creditor may take the debtor to court in an attempt to have the debtor's wages garnished or to secure another type of repayment order.


   Example of a Debtor  

For example, consider Sally, looking to take out a mortgage to buy a home. She works with a bank to finance a property. Her loan is for $250,000.



Sally now owes the bank $250,000 and is in debt to them (making her a debtor). Her bank is the creditor. With mortgages, the home (in this case Sally's home) is used as collateral for the loan.



If Sally defaults on the loan the bank can take possession of the property and sell it to recoup their money owed.


   Debtor Definition FAQs  
  What Does Debtor Mean?  

Debtors are individuals or businesses that owe money. Debtors can owe money to banks, or individuals and companies. Debtors owe a debt that must be paid at some time in the future.


  Who Is a Debtor and Who Is a Creditor?  

Debtors and creditors can be individuals or businesses. For the most part, individuals and companies are debtors who borrow money from banks or other financial institutions. Creditors, which can be any individual or company, are often thought of as banks.


  Is a Customer a Creditor or Debtor?  

Bank customers are debtors if they have a loan or owe the bank. Customers that buy goods or services and pay on the spot are not debtors. However, customers of companies that provide goods or services can be debtors if they are allowed to make payment at a later date.


  Is a Debtor an Asset?  

A debtor is a person or business. For the creditor, the money owed to them (by a debtor) is considered an asset. In some cases, money owed by a debtor can be an account receivable (for goods or services bought on credit) or note receivable if it's a loan.


  Are Debtors an Income?  

Debtors are not considered income. The money owed by debtors (to creditors) is not recorded as income, but rather an asset, such as note or account receivable. Any interest or fees charged by the creditor, however, is recorded as income for the creditor and an expense for the debtor.


   The Bottom Line  

Debtors owe money to individuals or companies (such as banks). Debtors can be individuals or companies and are referred to as borrowers if the debt is from a bank or financial institution. Debtors can also be someone who files a voluntary petition to declare bankruptcy. Debtors cannot go to jail for unpaid consumer debts. Debt collectors cannot threaten debtors with jail time, but courts can put debtors in jail for unpaid child support or taxes.
What Is a Debtor in Possession (DIP)?  

A debtor in possession (DIP) is a business or individual that has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection but still holds property to which creditors have a legal claim under a lien or other security interest. A DIP may continue to do business using those assets. However, it is required to seek court approval for any actions that fall outside the scope of regular business activities. The DIP must also keep precise financial records, insure any property, and file appropriate tax returns.





Key Takeaways

A debtor in possession (DIP) is a business or person that has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection but still holds property to which creditors have a legal claim under a lien or other security interest.Debtor in possession (DIP) is typically a transitional stage during which the debtor attempts to salvage value from assets after bankruptcy.Although DIPs often exercise substantial influence over the assets in their possession, creditors can ultimately use courts to force the sale of those assets.The key advantage to DIP status is being able to continue running a business, albeit with the obligation to do so in the best interest of any creditors.


   How Debtor in Possession (DIP) Works  

Debtor in possession (DIP) is typically a transitional stage in which the debtor, most often a business, attempts to salvage value from assets after bankruptcy. The most obvious reason for obtaining DIP status is that the assets can be used as part of a functioning business with higher resale value than the assets themselves. DIP status lets bankrupt companies and individuals avoid liquidation at fire-sale prices, which helps both the bankrupt party and their creditors.



Consider a mom-and-pop restaurant that was forced into bankruptcy during a recession. The restaurant may still have talented staff, a good reputation, and loyal customers. These could all be more valuable to the right buyer than the restaurant's building and equipment. However, it may take months or even years to find that buyer. A debtor in possession might be able to continue operating the restaurant until they find the right buyer.



Alternatively, debtor in possession status can be used to reorganize a business. Returning to the bankrupt restaurant example, the owners could eventually find a local investor willing to buy their building and rent it back to them. The funds from the sale might be used to pay off all their creditors and emerge from bankruptcy. The restaurant would then be back in business on a different basis.



Although DIPs often exercise substantial influence over the assets in their possession, it is essential to realize that they no longer own those assets. Creditors can ultimately use the courts to force a sale of the DIP assets.


   Advantages of Debtor in Possession (DIP)  

The key advantage to DIP status is, of course, being able to continue running a business (while with the obligation to do so in the best interest of any creditors). A DIP may also be able to secure debtor-in-possession financing (DIP financing) that can help to keep the business financially afloat until it can be sold.



A debtor in possession can sometimes even retain property by paying the creditor its fair market value if the court approves the sale. For example, an individual debtor may seek to buy back their car, so they can use it to work or find work to pay off the creditor.






The ability to continue doing business as a debtor in possession is naturally limited by the financial interests of creditors. They will eventually demand to be paid and can force the sale of assets in the debtor's possession.


   Disadvantages of Debtor in Possession (DIP)  

After filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the debtor must close the bank accounts they used before the filing and open new ones that name the DIP and their status on the account. From that point on, many decisions the debtor might previously have made alone must now be approved by a court.



A debtor in possession must act in the best interests of creditors and, in the case of a business, its employees. A business must pay wages, make appropriate withholdings, deposit the withheld taxes, and pay both the employee and employer share of FICA, as before.



Other spending is carefully regulated. For example, the debtor usually cannot pay off debts that arose before filing for bankruptcy unless they are permissible under the bankruptcy code or approved by the court. The DIP also cannot put up company assets as collateral or employ and pay professionals without court permission.



Similarly, unless the court rules otherwise, federal, state, and local tax returns must continue to be filed when due, or with extensions sought by the DIP as needed. The DIP must also maintain adequate insurance on the assets—and be able to document that coverage. In addition, it must provide periodic reporting on the financial health of the business.



Should the debtor not meet these obligations, or fail to follow court orders, the DIP designation can be terminated, after which the court will appoint a trustee to manage the business or individual's financial affairs.




What Is Chapter 11 Bankruptcy?
Chapter 11 is a type of bankruptcy most often filed for by businesses, in particular corporations and partnerships. Sometimes referred to as a "reorganization bankruptcy," it allows the business to continue operating under court supervision while it attempts to pay its creditors. Individuals can also file for Chapter 11, but they more typically use Chapter 7 or Chapter 13.




What Is a Small Business Case in Bankruptcy?
A small business case is a type of simplified Chapter 11 bankruptcy for businesses with debts of $3,024,725 or less. It was created by the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act (BAPCPA) in 2005. Small businesses that qualify can use either it or the more recent Subchapter V.




What Is Subchapter V?
Subchapter V is a special category of Chapter 11 for small businesses created in 2019 by the Small Business Reorganization Act (SBRA). Its goal is to speed up and streamline the bankruptcy process for businesses that qualify, currently those with debts of $7.5 million or less.


   The Bottom Line  

Debtor in possession (DIP) can allow a business or, in some cases, an individual to maintain possession of certain assets while they work to pay off their creditors. In the cases of a business, the owners will be more restricted than before in their autonomy because they must now act in the interests of their creditors rather than their own interests.
What Is Debtor-in-Possession (DIP) Financing?  

Debtor-in-possession (DIP) financing is a special kind of financing meant for companies that are in bankruptcy. Only companies that have filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 are allowed to access DIP financing, which usually happens at the start of a filing. DIP financing is used to facilitate the reorganization of a debtor-in-possession (the status of a company that has filed for bankruptcy) by allowing it to raise capital to fund its operations as its bankruptcy case runs its course. DIP financing is unique from other financing methods in that it usually has priority over existing debt, equity, and other claims. 





Key Takeaways

Debtor-in-possession (DIP) financing is financing for firms in Chapter 11 bankruptcy that allows them to continue operating.The lenders of DIP financing take a senior position on liens of the firm's assets, ahead of previous lenders.Lenders permit DIP financing as it allows a firm to continue operations, reorganize, and eventually pay off debts.Term loans are the most common type of financing provided whereas historically it used to be revolving loans.


   Understanding Debtor-in-Possession (DIP) Financing  

Since Chapter 11 favors corporate reorganization over liquidation, filing for protection can offer a vital lifeline to distressed companies in need of financing. In debtor-in-possession (DIP) financing, the court must approve the financing plan consistent with the protection granted to the business. Oversight of the loan by the lender is also subject to the court's approval and protection. If the financing is approved, the business will have the liquidity it needs to keep operating.



When a company is able to secure DIP financing, it lets vendors, suppliers, and customers know that the debtor will be able to remain in business, provide services, and make payments for goods and services during its reorganization. If the lender has found that the company is worthy of credit after examining its finances, it stands to reason that the marketplace will come to the same conclusion.



As part of the Great Recession, two bankrupt U.S. automakers, General Motors and Chrysler, were the beneficiaries of debtor-in-possession (DIP) financing.


   Obtaining Debtor-in-Possession (DIP) Financing  

DIP financing usually occurs at the beginning of the bankruptcy filing process, but often, struggling companies that may benefit from court protection will delay filing out of failure to accept the reality of their situation. Such indecision and delay can waste precious time, as the DIP financing process tends to be lengthy.


  Seniority  

Once a company enters into Chapter 11 bankruptcy and finds a willing lender, it must obtain approval from bankruptcy court. Providing a loan under bankruptcy law provides a lender with much-needed comfort in providing financing to a company in financial distress. DIP financing lenders are given first priority on assets in case of the company's liquidation, an authorized budget, a market or premium interest rate, and any additional comfort measures that the court or lender believes warrants inclusion. Current lenders usually have to agree to the terms, particularly in taking a back seat to a lien on assets.


  Authorized Budget  

The approved budget is an important aspect of DIP financing. The "DIP budget" can include a forecast of the company's receipts, expenses, net cash flow, and outflows for rolling periods. It must also factor in forecasting the timing of payments to vendors, professional fees, seasonal variations in its receipts, and any capital outlays. Once the DIP budget is agreed upon, both parties will agree on the size and structure of the credit facility or loan. This is just a part of the negotiations and legwork necessary to secure DIP financing.


  Types of Loans  

DIP financing is frequently provided via term loans. Such loans are fully funded throughout the bankruptcy process, which means higher interest costs for the borrower. Formerly, revolving credit facilities were the most utilized method, which allows a borrower to draw down the loan and repay as needed; like a credit card. This allows for more flexibility and therefore the ability to keep interest costs lower, as a borrower can actively manage the amount of the loan borrowed.
What Are Decentralized Applications (dApps)?  

Decentralized applications, or dApps, are software programs that run on a blockchain or peer-to-peer (P2P) network of computers instead of on a single computer. DApps (also called "dapps") are thus outside the purview and control of a single authority.



DApps are often built on the Ethereum platform. They have been developed for a variety of purposes including gaming, finance, and social media.





Key Takeaways

Decentralized applications—also known as "dApps" or "dapps"—are digital applications that run on a blockchain network of computers instead of relying on a single computer.dApps are free from the control and interference of a single authority.The benefits of dApps include the safeguarding of user privacy, the lack of censorship, and the flexibility of development.Potential drawbacks include an inability to scale, challenges in developing a user interface, and difficulties in making code modifications.


   Understanding Decentralized Applications (dApps)  

A web app such as Uber or X (formerly Twitter) runs on a computer system that is owned and operated by a company that has authority over the app and its workings. No matter how many users there are, the backend is controlled by the company.



DApps can run on a P2P network or a blockchain network. For example, BitTorrent, Tor, and Popcorn Time are applications that run on computers that are part of a P2P network, which allows multiple participants to consume content, feed, or seed content.



dApps run on a blockchain network in a public, open-source, decentralized environment and are free from control and interference by any single authority. For example, a developer can create a X-like dApp and put it on a blockchain where any user can publish messages. Once posted, no one—not even the app creators—can delete the messages.


   dApp Uses  

dApps have been developed to decentralize a range of functions and applications and eliminate intermediaries. Examples include self-executing financial contracts, multi-user games, and social media platforms.



DApps have also been developed to enable secure, blockchain-based voting and governance. DApps can even be integrated into web browsers to function as plugins that help serve ads, track user behavior, or solicit crypto donations.



Some examples of practical uses for dApps include:



Financial services: dApps can be used to facilitate peer-to-peer financial transactions, such as the exchange of currencies or the transfer of assets.Supply chain management: dApps can be used to track the movement of goods through a supply chain, ensuring transparency and accountability.Identity verification: dApps can be used to securely store and verify identity information, such as for voter rolls or passport applications.Real estate: dApps can be used to facilitate the buying and selling of real estate directly between buyer and seller, as well as the tracking of property ownership and related documentation such as deeds.Healthcare: dApps can be used to store and track healthcare records, as well as to facilitate the communication and collaboration of healthcare professionals.Education: dApps can be used to create decentralized learning platforms, allowing students and teachers to interact and collaborate directly without the need for intermediaries.Social media: dApps can be used to create decentralized social media platforms, allowing users to interact and share content without the need for a central authority.Predictive markets: dApps can be used to create decentralized platforms for predictive markets, allowing users to make predictions on a variety of topics and potentially earn rewards for accurate predictions.


   dApp Scams  

Scams have been perpetrated through dApps. Ponzi schemes, in which early investors are paid using the investments of more recent investors to create the appearance of big profits, have been known to occur on dApps.



Fake initial coin offerings (ICOs) have been used to raise funds for the development of a new cryptocurrency or dApp that the fundraisers have no intention of creating.



Phishing attacks, which use fake websites or emails to trick people into revealing sensitive information, have been seen on dApps.



In addition, some dApps have been used to distribute malware or viruses, which can compromise users' devices and steal sensitive information.



It is important for users to be cautious and do their due diligence when interacting with dApps, as the decentralized nature of these applications can make it difficult to track or hold perpetrators accountable.



Industry analytics group DappRadar found that there were a record 312 hacks and vulnerabilities affecting dApps in 2022, leading to losses of around $48 billion.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of dApps  
  Advantages  

Many of the advantages of dApps center around the program's ability to safeguard user privacy. With decentralized apps, users do not need to submit their personal information to use the function the app provides. DApps use smart contracts to complete the transaction between two anonymous parties without the need to rely on a central authority.



Free speech proponents point out that dApps can be developed as alternative social media platforms. A decentralized social media platform is resistant to censorship because no single participant on the blockchain can delete or block messages.



Ethereum is a flexible platform for creating new dApps, providing the infrastructure needed for developers to focus their efforts on finding innovative uses for digital applications. This could enable the rapid deployment of dApps in a number of industries including banking and finance, gaming, social media, and online shopping.






American cryptographer and computer scientist Nick Szabo introduced the term "smart contract" in 1996 as a graduate student at the University of Washington.


  Disadvantages  

The use of dApps is still in the early stages, and thus it is experimental and prone to certain problems and unknowns. There are questions as to whether the applications will be able to scale effectively. There are concerns that an app that requires significant computations will overload a network, causing network congestion.



The ability to develop a user-friendly interface is another concern. Most users of apps developed by traditional centralized institutions have an ease-of-use expectation that encourages them to use and interact with the app. Getting people to transition to dApps will require developers to create an end-user experience and level of performance that rivals popular and established programs.



The challenge of doing code modifications is another limitation of dApps. Once deployed, a dApp is likely to need ongoing changes to make enhancements or correct bugs or security risks. According to Ethereum, it can be challenging for developers to make needed updates to dApps because the data and code published to the blockchain are hard to modify.





Pros

Promotes user privacy
Resists censorship
Flexible platform enables dApp development



Cons

Experimental, may not be able to scale
Challenges in developing a user-friendly interface
Difficult to make needed code modifications







What Are Ethereum dApps?
These are decentralized applications that are developed using the Ethereum platform and are powered by it. Ethereum dApps use smart contracts for their logic. They are deployed on the Ethereum network and use the platform's blockchain for data storage.




What Is the Difference Between a Centralized and Decentralized App?
A centralized app has a single owner. The application software for a centralized app resides on one or more servers controlled by the owner. As a user, you'll interact with the app by downloading a copy of the app and then sending and receiving data back and forth from the company's server.A decentralized app (also known as a dApp or dapp) operates on a blockchain or peer-to-peer network of computers. Users engage in transactions directly with one another rather than relying on a central authority. The user of a dApp will pay the developer an amount of cryptocurrency to download and use the program's source code. The source code is known as a smart contract, which allows users to complete transactions without revealing personal information.




What Are Examples of Centralized and Decentralized Apps?
Well-known examples of centralized apps include X (formerly Twitter), Facebook, Instagram, and Netflix. Banks and other financial institutions use centralized apps to give their customers online access to their accounts.Peepeth, a social network alternative to X, is an example of a decentralized app. Cryptokitties is a dApp game that allows users to buy and sell virtual cats. MakerDAO is a decentralized credit service supporting the stablecoin Dai that allows users to open a collateralized debt position (CDP).


   The Bottom Line  

Decentralized applications (dApps) are digital applications or programs that run on a decentralized network, rather than a single computer or server. They are built on blockchain technology and use cryptocurrency as a means of exchange. dApps are designed to be open-source, transparent, and resistant to censorship, allowing users to interact directly with the application without intermediaries. They have the potential to disrupt traditional industries by allowing for peer-to-peer interactions and transactions without a central authority.
What Is a Decile?  

A decile is a quantitative method of splitting up a set of ranked data into 10 equally large subsections. This type of data ranking is performed as part of many academic and statistical studies in the finance and economics fields. The data may be ranked from largest to smallest values, or vice versa.



A decile, which has 10 categorical buckets may be contrasted with percentiles that have 100, quartiles that have four, or quintiles that have five.












Investopedia / Danie Drankwater





Key Takeaways

A decile is a quantitative method of splitting up a set of ranked data into 10 equally large subsections.A decile rank arranges the data in order from lowest to highest and is done on a scale of one to 10 where each successive number corresponds to an increase of 10 percentage points.This type of data ranking is performed as part of many academic and statistical studies in the finance and economics fields.


   Understanding a Decile  

In descriptive statistics, a decile is used to categorize large data sets from the highest to lowest values, or vice versa. Like the quartile and the percentile, a decile is a form of a quantile that divides a set of observations into samples that are easier to analyze and measure.



While quartiles are three data points that divide an observation into four equal groups or quarters, a decile consists of nine data points that divide a data set into 10 equal parts. When an analyst or statistician ranks data and then splits them into deciles, they do so in an attempt to discover the largest and smallest values by a given metric.



For example, by splitting the entire S&P 500 Index into deciles (50 firms in each decile) using the P/E multiple, the analyst will discover the companies with the highest and lowest P/E valuations in the index.



A decile is usually used to assign decile ranks to a data set. A decile rank arranges the data in order from lowest to highest and is done on a scale of one to 10 where each successive number corresponds to an increase of 10 percentage points. In other words, there are nine decile points. The 1st decile, or D1, is the point that has 10% of the observations below it, D2 has 20% of the observations below it, D3 has 30% of the observations falling below it, and so on.


   How to Calculate a Decile  

There is no one way of calculating a decile; however, it is important that you are consistent with whatever formula you decide to use to calculate a decile. One simple calculation of a decile is:



﻿















D1


=


Value of 



[




n


+


1




1


0




]



th Data








\begin{aligned} &\text{D1} = \text{Value of } \left [ \frac{ n + 1 }{ 10 } \right ] \text{th Data} \\ \end{aligned}


​D1=Value of [10n+1​]th Data​﻿



﻿















D2


=


Value of 



[




2


×


(


n


+


1


)




1


0




]



th Data








\begin{aligned} &\text{D2} = \text{Value of } \left [ \frac{ 2 \times ( n + 1 ) }{ 10 } \right ] \text{th Data} \\ \end{aligned}


​D2=Value of [102×(n+1)​]th Data​﻿



﻿















D3


=


Value of 



[




3


×


(


n


+


1


)




1


0




]



th Data








\begin{aligned} &\text{D3} = \text{Value of } \left [ \frac{ 3 \times ( n + 1 ) }{ 10 } \right ] \text{th Data} \\ \end{aligned}


​D3=Value of [103×(n+1)​]th Data​﻿



﻿















D9


=


Value of 



[




9


×


(


n


+


1


)




1


0




]



th Data








\begin{aligned} &\text{D9} = \text{Value of } \left [ \frac{ 9 \times ( n + 1 ) }{ 10 } \right ] \text{th Data} \\ \end{aligned}


​D9=Value of [109×(n+1)​]th Data​﻿



From this formula, it is given that the 5th decile is the median since 5 (n+1) / 10 is the data point that represents the halfway point of the distribution.


   Deciles in Finance and Economics  

Deciles are used in the investment field to assess the performance of a portfolio or a group of mutual funds. The decile rank acts as a comparative number that measures the performance of an asset against similar assets.



For example, say an analyst is evaluating the performance of a set of mutual funds over time, a mutual fund that is ranked five on a decile scale of one to 10 means it’s in the top 50%. By splitting the mutual funds into deciles, the analyst can review the best and worst-performing mutual funds for a given time period, arranged from the smallest to highest average return on investment.



The government also uses deciles to determine the level of income inequality in the country, that is, how income is distributed. For example, if the top 20 wage earners of a country of 50,000 citizens fall in the 10th decile and earn more than 50% of the total income in the country, one can conclude that there is a very high degree of income inequality in that country. In this case, the government can introduce measures to decrease the wage gap, such as increasing the income tax of the rich and creating estate taxes to limit how much wealth can be passed on to beneficiaries as an inheritance.


   Example of a Decile  

The table below shows the ungrouped scores (out of 100) for 30 exam takers:

















48
52
55
57
58
60
61
64
65
66


69
72
73
75
76
78
81
82
84
87


88
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
99






Using the information presented in the table, the 1st decile can be calculated as:



= Value of [(30 + 1) / 10]th data= Value of 3.1st data, which is 0.1 of the way between scores 55 and 57= 55 + 2 (0.1) = 55.2 = D1D1 means that 10% of the data set falls below 55.2.



Let’s calculate the 3rd decile:



D3 = Value of 3 (30 + 1) / 10D3 = Value of 9.3rd position, which is 0.3 between the scores of 65 and 66Thus, D3 = 65 + 1 (0.3) = 65.330% of the 30 scores in the observation fall below 65.3.



What would we get if we were to calculate the 5th decile?



D5 = Value of 5 (30 + 1) / 10D5 = Value of 15.5th position, halfway between scores 76 and 7850% of the scores fall below 77.



Also, notice how the 5th decile is also the median of the observation. Looking at the data set in the table, the median, which is the middle data point of any given set of numbers, can be calculated as (76 + 78)  / 2 = 77 = median = D5. At this point, half of the scores lie above and below the distribution.
What Is Decision Analysis (DA)?  

Decision analysis (DA) is a systematic, quantitative, and visual approach to addressing and evaluating the important choices that businesses sometimes face. Ronald A. Howard, a professor of Management Science and Engineering at Stanford University, is credited with originating the term in 1964. The idea is used by large and small corporations alike when making various types of decisions, including management, operations, marketing, capital investments, or strategic choices.


   Understanding Decision Analysis (DA)  

Decision analysis uses a variety of tools to evaluate all relevant information to aid in the decision-making process and incorporates aspects of psychology, management techniques, training, and economics. It is often used to assess decisions that are made in the context of multiple variables and that have many possible outcomes or objectives. The process can be used by individuals or groups attempting to make a decision related to risk management, capital investments, and strategic business decisions.





Key Takeaways

Decision analysis is a systematic, quantitative, and visual approach to making strategic business decisions.Decision analysis uses a variety of tools and also incorporates aspects of psychology, management techniques, and economics.Risk, capital investments, and strategic business decisions are areas where decision analysis can be applied.Decision trees and influence diagrams are visual representations that help in the analysis process.Critics argue that decision analysis can easily lead to analysis paralysis and, due to information overload, the inability to make any decisions at all.



A graphical representation of alternatives and possible solutions, as well as challenges and uncertainties, can be created on a decision tree or influence diagram. More sophisticated computer models have also been developed to aid in the decision-analysis process.



The goal behind such tools is to provide decision-makers with alternatives when attempting to achieve objectives for the business, while also outlining uncertainties involved and providing measures of how well objectives will be reached if final outcomes are achieved. Uncertainties are typically expressed as probabilities, while frictions between conflicting objectives are viewed in terms of trade-offs and utility functions. That is, objectives are viewed in terms of how much they are worth or, if achieved, their expected value to the organization.



Despite the helpful nature of decision analysis, critics suggest that a major drawback to the approach is "analysis paralysis," which is the overthinking of a situation to the point that no decision can be made. In addition, some researchers who study the methodologies used by decision-makers argue that this type of analysis is not often utilized.


   Examples of Decision Analysis  

If a real estate development company is deciding on whether or not to build a new shopping center in a location, they might examine several pieces of input to aid in their decision-making process. These might include traffic at the proposed location on various days of the week at different times, the popularity of similar shopping centers in the area, financial demographics, local competition, and preferred shopping habits of the area population. All of these items can be put into a decision-analysis program and different simulations are run that help the company make a decision about the shopping center.



As another example, a company has a patent for a new product that is expected to see rapid sales for two years before becoming obsolete. The company is confronted with a choice of whether to sell the patent now or build the product in-house. Each option has opportunities, risks, and trade-offs, which can be analyzed with a decision tree that considers the benefits of selling the patent verses making the product in-house. Within those two branches of the tree, another group of decision trees can be created to consider such things as the optimal selling price for the patent or the costs and benefits of producing the product in-house.
What Is a Decision Support System (DSS)?  

A decision support system (DSS) is a computerized program used to support determinations, judgments, and courses of action in an organization or a business. A DSS sifts through and analyzes massive amounts of data, compiling comprehensive information that can be used to solve problems and in decision-making.



Typical information used by a DSS includes target or projected revenue, sales figures or past ones from different time periods, and other inventory- or operations-related data.





Key Takeaways

A decision support system (DSS) is a computerized system that gathers and analyzes data, synthesizing it to produce comprehensive information reports.A decision support system differs from an ordinary operations application, whose function is just to collect data.Decision support systems allow for more informed decision-making, timely problem-solving, and improved efficiency in dealing with issues or operations, planning, and even management.


   Understanding a Decision Support System (DSS)  

A decision support system gathers and analyzes data, synthesizing it to produce comprehensive information reports. In this way, as an informational application, a DSS differs from an ordinary operations application, whose function is just to collect data.



The DSS can either be completely computerized or powered by humans. In some cases, it may combine both. The ideal systems analyze information and actually make decisions for the user. At the very least, they allow human users to make more informed decisions at a quicker pace.


   Using a DSS  

The DSS can be employed by operations management and other planning departments in an organization to compile information and data and synthesize it into actionable intelligence. In fact, these systems are primarily used by mid- to upper-level management.



For example, a DSS may be used to project a company's revenue over the upcoming six months based on new assumptions about product sales. Due to a large number of factors that surround projected revenue figures, this is not a straightforward calculation that can be done manually. However, a DSS can integrate all the multiple variables and generate an outcome and alternate outcomes, all based on the company's past product sales data and current variables.






A DSS can be tailored for any industry, profession, or domain including the medical field, government agencies, agricultural concerns, and corporate operations.


   Characteristics of a DSS  

The primary purpose of using a DSS is to present information to the customer in an easy-to-understand way. A DSS system is beneficial because it can be programmed to generate many types of reports, all based on user specifications. For example, the DSS can generate information and output its information graphically, as in a bar chart that represents projected revenue or as a written report.



As technology continues to advance, data analysis is no longer limited to large, bulky mainframe computers. Since a DSS is essentially an application, it can be loaded on most computer systems, whether on desktops or laptops. Certain DSS applications are also available through mobile devices.



The flexibility of the DSS is extremely beneficial for users who travel frequently. This gives them the opportunity to be well-informed at all times, providing them the ability to make the best decisions for their company and customers on the go or even on the spot.


   What Is a Decision Support System Used for?  

In organizations, a decision support system (DSS) analyzes and synthesizes vast amounts of data to assist in decision-making. With this information, it produces reports that may project revenue, sales, or manage inventory. Through the integration of multiple variables, a DSS can produce a number of different outcomes based on the company’s previous data and current inputs. 


   What Is an Example of a Decision Support System?  

Many different industries, from medicine to agriculture, use decision support systems. To help diagnose a patient, a medical clinician may use a computerized decision support system for diagnostics and prescriptions. Combining clinician inputs and previous electronic health records, a decision support system may assist a doctor in diagnosing a patient.


   What Are the Benefits of a Decision Support System?  

Broadly speaking, decision support systems help in making more informed decisions. Often used by upper and mid-level management, decision support systems are used to make actionable decisions, or produce multiple possible outcomes based on current and historical company data. At the same time, decision support systems can be used to produce reports for customers that are easily digestible and can be adjusted based on user specifications.


What Is a Declaration Of Trust?  

A declaration of trust under U.S. law is a document or an oral statement appointing a trustee to oversee assets being held for the benefit of one or more other individuals. These assets are held in a trust.



The document or statement also contains details of the trust's purpose, its beneficiaries, and how it will be managed by the trustee.



The declaration of trust is sometimes referred to as a nominee declaration.


   Understanding a Declaration Of Trust  

A declaration of trust not only appoints a trustee but defines the trust to be created in considerable detail.



It identifies the assets held within the trust. It states who will benefit from the trust and who can amend or revoke the trust as well as the name of the trustee and what powers the trustee holds. The trustee may be a financial institution rather than an individual.



The statement may include instructions on how and when the beneficiary will receive distributions.



The declaration provides an overview of the trust's purpose or objectives and how the trustee may invest and manage assets to support the beneficiaries. It also may explain who will replace the trustee in the event of illness, incapacitation, death, or any other reason. 


  State Laws Differ  

Some states require a declaration of trust to be made in writing, while others will permit oral declarations.





Key Takeaways

A declaration of trust, or nominee declaration, appoints a trustee to oversee assets for the benefit of another person or people.The declaration also describes the assets that are to be held in the trust and how they are to be managed.State laws have different requirements for the creation of a declaration of trust.



State laws also govern how a declaration of trust is applied to all those involved in the operation of the trust including grantors, trustees, and beneficiaries. 


  Declaration of Trust in the U.K.   

A declaration of trust has a different meaning in the U.K. There, it establishes the joint ownership of a property that is being held for the benefit of one or more individuals other than the official owner. It is governed by the Trustee Act of 2000.






The U.S. and the U.K. have different definitions of the declaration of trust.



With a declaration of trust, an individual may be regarded as the owner of a property even if that person is not designated as the owner in the land registry. The trust itself can be cited in the land registry to show that the listed owner is not the sole owner of the property. 



For example, a person may purchase a home with a mortgage. Some of the money towards the purchase may come from the person's parents. The parents would contribute towards the costs with the agreement that they will receive a share of any profit from the property's sale. The person creating the declaration of trust would be the registered owner on the title deeds of the property, but the parents can register their interests on the trust deed.
What Is the Declining Balance Method?  

The declining balance method is an accelerated depreciation system of recording larger depreciation expenses during the earlier years of an asset’s useful life and recording smaller depreciation expenses during the asset's later years.





Key Takeaways

In accounting, the declining balance method is an accelerated depreciation system of recording larger depreciation expenses during the earlier years of an asset’s useful life while recording smaller depreciation during its later years. This technique is useful for recording the depreciation of computers, cell phones, and other high-technology products that rapidly become obsolete.The declining balance technique represents the opposite of the straight-line depreciation method, which is more suitable for assets whose book value steadily drops over time.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   How to Calculate Declining Balance Depreciation  

Depreciation under the declining balance method is calculated with the following formula:



﻿















Declining Balance Depreciation


=


C


B


V


×


D


R
















where:
















C


B


V


=


current book value
















D


R


=


depreciation rate (%)








\begin{aligned} &\text{Declining Balance Depreciation} = CBV \times DR\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &CBV=\text{current book value}\\ &DR=\text{depreciation rate (\%)}\\ \end{aligned}


​Declining Balance Depreciation=CBV×DRwhere:CBV=current book valueDR=depreciation rate (%)​﻿



Current book value is the asset's net value at the start of an accounting period, calculated by deducting the accumulated depreciation from the cost of the fixed asset. Residual value is the estimated salvage value at the end of the useful life of the asset. And the rate of depreciation is defined according to the estimated pattern of an asset's use over its useful life. For example, if an asset costing $1,000, with a salvage value of $100 and a 10-year life depreciates at 30% each year, then the expense is $270 in the first year, $189 in the second year, $132 in the third year, and so on.


   What Does the Declining Balance Method Tell You?  

The declining balance method, also known as the reducing balance method, is ideal for assets that quickly lose their values or inevitably become obsolete. This is classically true with computer equipment, cell phones, and other high-tech items, which are generally useful earlier on but become less so as newer models are brought to market. An accelerated method of depreciation ultimately factors in the phase-out of these assets.



The declining balance technique represents the opposite of the straight-line depreciation method, which is more suitable for assets whose book value drops at a steady rate throughout their useful lives. This method simply subtracts the salvage value from the cost of the asset, which is then divided by the useful life of the asset. So, if a company shells out $15,000 for a truck with a $5,000 salvage value and a useful life of five years, the annual straight-line depreciation expense equals $2,000 ($15,000 minus $5,000 divided by five).


   Declining Depreciation vs. the Double-Declining Method  

If a company often recognizes large gains on sales of its assets, this may signal that it's using accelerated depreciation methods, such as the double-declining balance depreciation method. Net income will be lower for many years, but because book value ends up being lower than market value, this ultimately leads to a bigger gain when the asset is sold. If this asset is still valuable, its sale could portray a misleading picture of the company's underlying health.






Employing the accelerated depreciation technique means there will be smaller taxable income in the earlier years of an asset's life.
What Is Decoupling?  

In financial markets, decoupling occurs when the returns of one asset class diverge from their expected or normal pattern of correlation with others. Decoupling thus takes place when different asset classes that typically rise and fall together start to move in opposite directions, such as one increasing and the other decreasing.



One example might be seen with oil and natural gas prices, which typically rise and fall together. Decoupling would happen if oil moves in one direction while natural gas moves in the opposite direction.





Key Takeaways

Decoupling is when the returns of an asset class that have been correlated with other assets in the past no longer move in-step according to expectations.Decoupling may also refer to a disconnect between a country's investment market performance and the state of its underlying economy.Investors can view a decoupling as an opportunity if they believe that the previous pattern of correlation will return, but there is no guarantee that it will.Many sustainable development economists also advocate for decoupling economic growth from environmental pressures—i.e., finding ways to achieve growth without increasing environmental consequences.Relative decoupling refers to a decreasing correlation between two assets, while absolute decoupling means a zero or negative correlation.


   Understanding Decoupling  

In the investment realm, investors and portfolio managers usually use a statistical measure known as correlation to determine the relationship between two assets or more. The strength of the correlation between two assets depends on where the metric falls within the range of -1 to +1, where a higher number denotes a stronger sync between the investments being compared.



A correlation of -1.0 implies that the assets move in the opposite direction, and +1.0 means that the assets will always move in the same direction. By understanding which assets are correlated, portfolio managers and investors create diversified portfolios by allocating investments that are not correlated with each other. This way, when one asset value falls, the other investments in the portfolio don’t have to follow the same path.



Stocks in the same industry will usually have a high positive correlation, and a fall in one company's share price will be accompanied by falls in others. For example, in 2017, Goldman Sachs released a report comparing the contemporary tech sector to the tech bubble of the late '90s. According to that report, the 2017 market was dominated the five FAAMG stocks—Facebook (now Meta), Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, and Google (Alphabet)—in a manner similar to the technology market just prior to the dotcom bubble.



The report resulted in a sell-off that led to a fall in the stock price of most tech companies in the U.S. market. Since the entire tech sector was affected, the collective plunge seemed to confirm that these companies were highly coupled–a drop in one stock price meant a drop in all of them.



Conversely, decoupling occurs when the correlations between closely-linked investments or commodities decrease. For example, gold prices are usually closely linked to the stock prices of mining companies. If negative news is published that causes gold prices to fall, but mining shares to increase, that would be evidence that gold mining companies were decoupling from the price of gold. In effect, decoupling refers to a decrease in correlation.


   Decoupling of Markets  

Markets and economies that once moved together can also be decoupled. The financial crisis of 2008 that started in the U.S. economy eventually spread to most markets in the world, leading to a global recession. Since the markets are "coupled" with the U.S. economic growth, any market that moves opposite to the global trajectory is known as a decoupled market or economy.



In the aftermath of the recession, the concept that the world's emerging markets no longer need to depend on U.S. demand to drive economic growth is an example of economic decoupling. Whereas emerging markets at one point relied on the U.S. economy, many analysts now argue that some emerging markets, such as China, India, Russia, and Brazil, have become sizable markets on their own for goods and services.



The argument for decoupling indicates that these economies would be able to withstand a faltering U.S. economy. China, for example, gets almost 70% of its foreign direct investment (FDI) from other emerging countries in Asia and is also investing heavily in commodity-producing companies in its continent.



By racking up its foreign exchange reserves and maintaining a current account surplus, the country has room to run a fiscal stimulus if a global downturn occurs, thereby decoupling itself from the advanced markets.


   Decoupling vs. Recoupling  

In contrast to decoupling, recoupling describes a situation of increasing correlation between two assets or markets, usually after a period of temporary decoupling. This might occur due to technological innovations that reduce the dependence of one factor on another.



Another example might be found in the relationship between natural gas prices and crude oil, two fossil fuels that play a key role in many industries. Between 1997 and 2009, the Henry Hub Natural Gas spot price closely tracked changes in West Texas Intermediate (WTI), with only brief deviations. Those prices then started decoupling, most likely due to technological innovations that greatly increased the available supply of natural gas.



In later years, the price of crude rose sharply, while natural gas prices remained low. They began to recouple starting in 2015, when crude prices fell and once again began to track the price of natural gas. The two fuels are once again positively correlated, although the price is lower than it was prior to 2009.


   Special Considerations  

Decoupling can also refer to the relationships between non-economic factors, such as education, health, and human development. A major goal of environmental economists is to decouple productive activity from environmental pressures—in other words, to achieve productive activity without causing environmental damage.






Absolute decoupling is when two variables stop moving together—the correlation between them becomes zero, or negative. Relative decoupling is when the correlation between two variables decreases, but remains positive.



Economists also distinguish between different degrees of decoupling, depending on the extent to which the correlation decreases. Absolute decoupling refers to circumstances in which two variables cease to move in the same direction–in other words, where the correlation between the two factors falls to zero or lower. Relative decoupling refers to a partial decoupling, where the two factors continue to have a positive (but lower) correlation.


   The Bottom Line  

A complex market economy has many moving parts, and many of them move together. Decoupling is one of many economic terms used to describe the changing relationships between economic indicators, stock prices, and other features of the world economy.




What Is Decoupling Between the U.S. and China?
The economies of China and the United States are closely linked, thanks to the formers' importance as a manufacturing hub and the latter's importance in the world financial system. This close relationship can sometimes have negative consequences, as a disruption in one country can cause a market downturn in the other. For this reason, some politicians have advocated policies that would decouple the two economies by favoring local industries.




What Is the Customer Order Decoupling Point?
In logistics, the customer order decoupling point is a link in the supply chain where information from individual customer orders enters the production and distribution process. Prior to the customer order decoupling point, production decisions are typically aggregated, based on historical data and forecasts of consumer demand. After the decoupling point, individual data and customer orders are introduced to increase efficiency in allocations.




What Is Decoupling in Sustainable Development?
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals are a group of long-term projects seeking to reduce economic reliance on environmentally destructive or harmful industrial practices. This includes several provisions for "decoupling growth from resource generation," i.e., exploring ways to achieve economic growth that do not deplete natural resources or cause environmental pressures.




What Is Utility Rate Decoupling?
In energy regulation, decoupling is a rate adjustment mechanism that changes the relationship between a utility's revenue and the amount of income it sells to the public. This reduces the utility's incentive to increase sales as a method of raising revenue, thereby reducing the volatility of consumer energy bills.
What Is Decreasing Term Insurance?  

Decreasing term insurance is a type of renewable term life insurance with coverage decreasing over the life of the policy at a predetermined rate. Premiums are usually constant throughout the contract, and reductions in coverage typically occur monthly or annually. Terms range between 1 year and 30 years depending on the plan offered by the insurance company.



Decreasing term life insurance is usually used to guarantee the remaining balance of an amortizing loan, such as a mortgage or business loan over time. It can be contrasted with level-premium term insurance.





Key Takeaways

Decreasing term insurance features a death benefit that gets smaller each year, according to a predetermined schedule that also sees premiums decrease over time.Decreasing term insurance is often purchased to provide personal asset protection.It may also be required by a lender to guarantee the remaining balance of a loan until its maturity in case the borrower dies.A decreasing term life policy is very similar and may mirror the amortization schedule of a mortgage. Decreasing term life insurance is less expensive than traditional term or permanent life policies.


   Understanding Decreasing Term Insurance   

Term life insurance is a form of coverage that provides a death benefit for only a certain length of time. For instance, a 20-year term life insurance policy would feature level premiums and the same death benefit over the course of its term. Decreasing term insurance instead features a declining death benefit over time, along with decreasing premiums. These amounts will be set to a schedule when the life insurance policy is purchased and may conform to a standard schedule or be customized between the insurer and the insured.



The theory behind decreasing term insurance holds that with age, certain liabilities, and the corresponding need for high levels of insurance decreases. Numerous in-force decreasing term insurance policies take the form of mortgage life insurance, which affixes its benefit to the remaining mortgage of an insured’s home.



Alone, decreasing term insurance may not be sufficient for an individual's life insurance needs, especially if they have a family with dependents. Affordable standard term life insurance policies offer the security of a death benefit throughout the life of the contract.






The payment structure is the primary way this type of insurance is different from regular term life. The amount in the death benefit goes down, unlike other forms of life insurance.


   Benefits of Decreasing Term Life  

The predominant use of decreasing term insurance is most often for personal asset protection. Small business partnerships also use a decreasing term life policy to protect indebtedness against startup costs and operational expenses.



In the case of small businesses, if one partner dies, the death benefit proceeds from the decreasing term policy can help to fund continuing operations or retire the percentage of the remaining debt for which the deceased partner is responsible. The security allows the business to guarantee commercial loan amounts affordably.



Decreasing term insurance is a more affordable option than whole life or universal life insurance. The death benefit is designed to mirror the amortization schedule of a mortgage or other personal debt not easily covered by personal assets or income, like personal loans or business loans.



Decreasing term insurance allows a pure death benefit with no cash accumulation, unlike, for example, a whole life insurance policy. As such, this insurance option has modest premiums for comparable benefit amounts to either a permanent or temporary life insurance.






Decreasing term policies are sometimes required by certain lenders to guarantee that the loan will be repaid in the event that the borrower dies before the loan matures. For instance, a small business may borrow $500,000 from a bank to expand, with $50,000 to be repaid each year for 10 years. They may ask the business owner to take out a decreasing term policy beginning in the amount of $500,000 and also reducing by $50,000 each year for ten years.


   Example of Decreasing Term Insurance  

For example, a 30-year-old male who is a non-smoker might pay a premium of $25 per month throughout the life of a 15-year $200,000 decreasing term policy, customized to parallel a mortgage amortization schedule. The monthly cost for the level-premium decreasing term plan does not change. As the insured ages, the risk of the carrier increases. This increase in risk warrants the declining death benefit. 



A permanent policy with the same face amount of $200,000 could require monthly premium payments of $100 or more per month. While some universal or whole-life policies allow reductions of face amounts when the insured uses the policy for loans or other advances, the policies frequently hold fixed death benefits.




Who Might Benefit from Decreasing Term Life Insurance?
Small businesses sometimes find it useful to protect indebtedness against startup costs and operational expenses. For example, if one partner dies, the death benefit proceeds from the decreasing term policy can help to fund continuing operations or retire the percentage of the remaining debt for which the deceased partner is responsible. The protection also allows the business to guarantee commercial loan amounts affordably.




Why Might Decreasing Term Life not be the Best Fit for Me?
The main drawback is the death benefit declining over time, which is of course why it costs less than standard term life or other policies. Also, should something happen down the road, decreasing term life may not provide the coverage needed. Saving a few dollars in the short term may leave you uncovered should a future event occur.




Is Decreasing Life Insurance Cheaper Than Regular Term?
Yes, because as the death benefit decreases over time, so too do the corresponding premiums.




What Happens at the End of a Decreasing Term Life Policy?
At the end of a decreasing term life policy, it terminates along with the death benefit coverage.
What Is a Deductible?  

For tax purposes, a deductible is an expense that an individual taxpayer or a business can subtract from adjusted gross income while completing a tax form. The deductible expense reduces taxable income and, therefore, the amount of income taxes owed.



U.S. individual taxpayers may use either the standard deduction or fill out a list of all of their deductible expenses, depending on which results in a smaller taxable income.





Key Takeaways

A deductible for taxes is an expense that a taxpayer or business can subtract from adjusted gross income, which reduces their taxable income, thereby reducing the amount of taxes owed.Most wage-earners use the standard deduction but those with very high deductible expenses can choose to itemize if that results in a smaller tax bill.The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) provides lists, requirements, and amounts of all available deductibles.Common deductions for individuals include student loan interest, self-employment expenses, charitable donations, and mortgage interest.Business deductibles include payroll, utilities, rent, leases, and other operational costs.


   Understanding Deductibles  

For individual wage-earners, some of the most commonly-used deductibles are mortgage interest payments, state and local tax payments, and charitable deductions. There also is a deduction for out-of-pocket medical costs.



Self-employed people may also be able to deduct many of their work-related expenses.



Nevertheless, the vast majority of Americans have taken the standard deduction since 2018, when that figure was nearly doubled while many allowable deductions were eliminated or capped.



For the 2022 tax year, the standard deduction for single taxpayers and married couples filing separately is $12,950. For married couples filing jointly, it is $25,900. For heads of households, it is $19,400.For the 2023 tax year, the standard deduction for single taxpayers and married couples filing separately is $13,850. For married couples filing jointly, it is $27,700. For heads of households, it is $20,800.


   Common Tax Deductibles  

Many deductions were removed or capped with the tax code overhaul of 2018 but there remain a few that are important to many taxpayers. These include student loan interest, charitable donations, mortgage interest, gambling losses, and self-employment expenses.



When preparing to file taxes, it's worth checking the IRS site or consulting with a tax professional to determine which deductions you qualify for.


   Business Deductibles  

Business deductibles are considerably more complex than individual deductibles and require a great deal more record-keeping. A business or self-employed individual must list all of the income that was received and all of the expenses that were paid out in order to report the real profit of the business. That profit is the gross taxable income of the business.



Examples of ordinary business deductibles include payroll, utilities, rent, leases, and other operational costs. Additional deductibles include capital expenses such as depreciating equipment or real estate.



Permissible deductibles vary by the structure of the business. Limited-liability companies (LLCs)  and corporations differ in the types and amounts of deductions available to their owners.


   Standardized Deduction vs. Itemized Deduction  

Whether a taxpayer uses the standard deduction or itemizes deductible expenses, the amount is subtracted directly from adjusted gross income.



For example, say a single taxpayer reports $50,000 in gross income in 2022, as recorded on the person's W2 form. By using the standard deduction, that taxpayer may deduct $12,950, reducing taxable income to $37,050.






The standard deduction nearly doubled with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. In the first year of the Act's implementation, 2018, about 90% of taxpayers used the standard deduction rather than itemizing deductions.


  If You Itemize  

Itemizing deductible expenses rather than taking the standard deduction requires filing one more piece of paper. A Schedule A form, used to record the various claimed deductions, must be attached to the main tax form, Form 1040 or Form 1040-SR.



The process requires a good deal of record-keeping throughout the year, including saving receipts or other proof of expenditures.



Filers who take the standard deduction can file Form 1040. Those who are age 65 or older can use Form 1040-SR. It's nearly identical to Form 1040 but with larger print.




Tax Credit vs. Tax Deduction
Both tax credits and tax deductions can help taxpayers pay less in taxes but there are distinct differences between the two.A tax credit is a straight subtraction from your tax bill. For example, a $10 tax credit will reduce your tax bill by $10.A tax deduction lowers your taxable income, and therefore lowers the total amount you owe.A tax deduction reduces your taxable income while a tax credit reduces your tax bill dollar-for-dollar.




How Are Tax Deductibles Calculated?
All tax deductibles (or the standard deduction) are subtracted from your gross income in order to arrive at an adjusted gross income, which is the amount that is subject to taxes.Taxpayers who itemize deductions rather than taking the standard deduction add a Schedule A form to Form 1040. This form is used to list the expenses being deducted.




What Is the Standard Tax Deduction?
The standard deduction is a specific dollar amount that taxpayers may use to reduce their taxable income if they do not choose to itemize their deductible expenses.For 2022, the standard deduction for single taxpayers and married couples filing separately is $12,950. For married couples filing jointly, it is $25,900. For heads of households, it is $19,400.For 2023, the standard deduction for single taxpayers and married couples filing separately is $13,850. For married couples filing jointly, it is $27,700. For heads of households, it is $20,800.




Do Tax Deductions Increase Your Refund?
A tax deduction lowers your taxable income, which reduces your total amount of taxes owed. That can result in a refund if you overpaid taxes during the year.




Should I Take the Standard Deduction?
You should take the standard deduction or itemize deductions depending on which results in a lower tax bill.You may have to estimate your allowable deductions, at least roughly, to figure that out. Also, keep in mind that you have to maintain records and receipts of deductible expenses throughout the year in order to back up the numbers you enter on Schedule A.There may be some years when you have good reason to itemize your deductions. For example, if you have very high unreimbursed medical expenses for one year, they could amount to tax savings greater than the standard deduction.
What Is a Deduction?  

A deduction is an expense that can be subtracted from a taxpayer's gross income in order to reduce the amount of income that is subject to taxation.



For example, if you earn $50,000 in a year and make a $1,000 donation to charity during that year, you are eligible to claim a deduction for that donation, reducing your taxable income to $49,000. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) often refers to a deduction as an allowable deduction.





Key Takeaways

A deduction is an expense that can be subtracted from taxable income to reduce the amount owed.Most taxpayers who take the standard deduction only need to file Form 1040.Taxpayers who itemize deductions must use Schedule A Form 1040 to list all of their allowable deductions.The standard tax deductions have increased steadily since the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2017.


   Understanding Deductions  

Taxpayers in the United States have the choice of claiming the standard deduction or itemizing their deductions. Claiming the standard deduction is easier and requires less paperwork and record-keeping. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has revamped Form 1040, which most taxpayers now use, and retired the old 1040A and 1040EZ forms.



Taxpayers who itemize deductions must use Schedule A Form 1040, an attachment to the standard 1040 form, and are required to fill in a list of their allowable deductions and keep receipts to prove them if they are audited. This longer form is used by filers who have substantial deductions that add up to more than the standard deduction.



An itemized deduction is an expense subtracted from adjusted gross income (AGI), which reduces taxable income and, therefore, the amount of taxes owed. Common itemized deductions include interest on a mortgage loan, unreimbursed healthcare costs, charitable contributions, and state and local taxes. Please consult a tax professional to determine whether a standard deduction or itemizing works for your financial situation.


   Standard Tax Deductions  

Since the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA), the standard deduction has increased over the years to help keep pace with rising prices—called inflation.



Below are the standard deductions for tax years 2022 and 2023, depending on tax filing status. These are set to expire in 2025.


  2022 Standard Deductions  

For singles and married people filing separately: $12,950For married couples filing jointly: $25,900For heads of households: $19,400


  2023 Standard Deductions  

For singles and married people filing separately: $13,850For married couples filing jointly: $27,700For heads of households: $20,800



The current standard deductions are a significant upgrade from levels before the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was passed. For example, in the 2017 tax year, the standard deduction was $6,350 for single filers and $12,700 for married people filing jointly.






If you opt to claim the standard deduction, there are still some itemized deductions you can claim on your income tax return, including eligible student loan interest and tuition and fees.


   Deductions vs. Credits  

A deduction is different from a tax credit, which is subtracted from the amount of taxes owed, not from your reported income.



There are both refundable and non-refundable credits. Non-refundable credits cannot trigger a tax refund, but refundable credits can.



For example, imagine that after reporting your income and claiming your deductions, you owe $500 in income tax; however, you are eligible for a $600 credit. If the credit is non-refundable, your tax bill is erased, but you do not receive any extra money. If the credit is refundable, you receive a $100 tax refund.



Some businesses qualify for business tax credits, which offset or reduce a company’s taxes owed to the federal government. Business tax credits are designed to encourage a particular behavior that benefits the overall economy, such as upgrading a building or factory and investing in research. While tax deductions reduce taxable income, business tax credits reduce the taxes owed.


   Special Considerations  

Business owners have a much more involved process during tax time since they're taxed on business profits, not business proceeds or revenue. That means documenting their costs of doing business to subtract them from the gross proceeds, revealing the taxable profits. The process is the same for the smallest businesses to the largest corporations, although the corporations at least have accounting departments to take care of the paperwork.



Businesses are required to report all of their gross income and then deduct business expenses from it. The difference between the two numbers is the business's net taxable income. Thus, business expenses work in a way that is similar to deductions.



Although the process of tracking expenses can be burdensome, the total amount of these expenses can help reduce a company's taxable income substantially, thus, lowering the taxes owed.




What Are Tax Deduction Examples?
Examples of common tax deductions include mortgage interest, contributions towards retirement plans, student loan interest, charitable contributions, certain health expenses, gambling losses, and HSA contributions.




Are Tax Deductions Good?
Yes, tax deductions are good because they lower your income and, therefore, the amount of taxes you owe. For example, if you had to pay 10% in taxes on your income and your income was $1,000, you would owe $100 in taxes; however, if you had a tax deduction of $200, that would lower your income to $800, and you would now owe $80 in taxes.




What Is the Tax Deduction for 2022?
The standard tax deduction for single filers for tax year 2022 is $12,950 and is $13,850 in 2023. This is the same for married individuals filing separately. For those married and filing jointly, the deduction for tax year 2022 is $25,900 and is $27,700 in 2023. For heads of households, it is $19,400 for tax year 2022 and is $20,800 in 2023.


   The Bottom Line  

A deduction is an expense that a taxpayer can use to reduce their gross income, thereby reducing the overall taxes they pay. The IRS allows for a variety of deductions that individuals can use to reduce their gross income.



Taxpayers are allowed to itemize their deductions or to take the standard deduction, which is much larger now than in the past thanks to the TCJA of 2017. It is best to consult a tax professional or financial advisor to see which method of deductions has the greatest benefit for your individual tax situation.
What Is a Deed?  

A deed is a signed legal document that transfers ownership of an asset to a new owner. Deeds are most commonly used to transfer ownership of property or vehicles between two parties.



The purpose of a deed is to transfer a title, the legal ownership of a property or asset, from one person or company to another.



A deed to real property must be properly filed with the local government for its owner to be able to sell it, refinance it, or obtain a line of credit on it. This task is usually undertaken by the property buyer's attorney or title insurance company.





Key Takeaways

A deed is a signed legal document that grants its holder ownership to an asset but may set a number of conditions on the transfer of the title.The deed is not a title. It is the vehicle for transferring a title.If the deed is not written, notarized, and entered into the public record, it could be open to legal challenges and delays.There are three main deed types: the grant deed, the warranty deed, and the quitclaim deed.


   Understanding a Deed  

A deed is a binding document in a court of law only after it is filed in the public record by a local government official who is tasked with maintaining documents. The signing of a deed must be notarized. Some states also require witnesses.



If a deed is not written, notarized, and entered into the public record, it may be referred to as an imperfect deed. The document and the transfer of title are valid, but the related paperwork may need to be on file with the register of deeds to avoid a delay if there is a legal challenge.



Other types of documents that confer privileges comparable to deeds include commissions, academic degrees, licenses to practice, patents, and powers of attorney.






The register of deeds is available for public viewing and is usually maintained at the town, county, or state level.


   Types of Deeds  

There are many different types of deeds, each of which serves a different purpose. They are generally categorized in the following ways:



A grant deed contains two guarantees: that the asset has not been sold to someone else and that it is not burdened by any encumbrances that have not been disclosed, such as outstanding liens or mortgages. That is, the deed is "free and clear" of defects. Grant deeds do not necessarily need to be recorded or notarized, but it is generally in the best interests of the grantee to ensure that this is done.
A warranty deed, sometimes called a special warranty deed, declares that the grantor has not caused any title defect while owning the property. It provides the greatest amount of protection to its holder. A warranty deed offers the same guarantees as a grant deed plus a promise that the grantor will warrant and defend the title against any claims.
A quitclaim deed releases a person's interest in an asset without stating the nature of their interest or rights. The grantor could be a legal owner or not, and makes no promises. Quitclaims are often used in divorce settlements and in transfers of property between family members.






In some states, a mortgage for a house entails the creation of a deed of trust. A trustee holds the deed of trust until the loan for the property is paid in full.


   Content Requirements of a Deed  

The exact requirements vary from state to state, but they are pretty basic. In California, for instance, the property being transferred must be described adequately. The grantor (the person transferring title to the property) and the grantee (the person accepting title) must be named.



The deed may be void if the grantor is found to be not mentally competent, was signed by a minor or, of course, was forged.



A deed does not have to be filed with the local government in order to be valid, but this routine step can avoid trouble and delay down the road if the deed is embroiled in a legal case or the property owner wants to sell the property.


   Deed Limitations  

A transfer of ownership can get muddled even when a perfected deed has been filed. There could be a cloud on title for a variety of reasons. False deeds or deeds that contain errors can be filed that require clearing up with the record keepers.



There also can be probate issues. For example, if the owner of a property passes away without defining in a will who should gain control of some property, the heirs might challenge one another in court for the property title.



Moreover, conferring a title through a deed does not necessarily grant the new owners the right to use the property in any way they choose. A deed may include restrictions on the owner's actions, such as the rules imposed by a homeowner's association.



An individual who signs a deed for a parcel of land has a legal right to possess that land, for example, but may not be able to build a shooting range on it because of the potential risks it would pose. In other cases, the holder of the title to a piece of property may own the land but be unable to develop it for environmental reasons.


   Deed vs. Title  

A deed and a title are not the same but they are inextricably linked:



A deed is a document that transfers the title to property from one owner to another. It describes the property being transferred and names all parties to the transaction. It is signed by all parties and is filed on the official record. All U.S. states require that deeds to real property be filed with the government, although the details vary.The title may not even exist in any physical form. It's the concept of property ownership that gives its owner the rights of possession and use. The deed is the proof of that ownership.


   Deed FAQs  

Here are the answers to some commonly asked questions about deeds.


  Does a Deed Mean You Own the House?  

A deed is proof that you are the owner of the house (or other property). You hold the title to that property.


  What Is a Deed of Trust?  

A deed of trust is a real estate transaction that involves a lender such as a bank as well as a buyer and a seller. It inserts a fourth party into the transaction: a trustee, usually a title company, which receives an interest in the property. If the buyer defaults on the payments, the trustee can seize the property and sell it.



The deed of trust process is a substitute for a mortgage agreement and is used in many states. From the buyer's viewpoint, it makes no difference. You pay your mortgage or you lose the house.


  What Is a Deed in Lieu?  

The term, in full, is "a deed in lieu of foreclosure." A homeowner facing the loss of the property for nonpayment of a mortgage may choose to just transfer the deed to the house to the lender rather than face the repercussions of foreclosure proceedings.



In a deed in lieu agreement, the lender agrees to accept the property and release the borrower from any other payments of the debt.


  How Long Is a Deed Valid For?  

It depends.



A deed of trust, as noted above, works the same as a mortgage and has a time limit in which the money loaned for the property must be repaid in full. At that time, the trustee should take care of the paperwork to replace it with another deed that transfers the title to the owner.



Unless a deed has an expiration date on it, it doesn't expire.
What Is a Deed of Reconveyance?  

A deed of reconveyance is a document that transfers the title of a property from a mortgage lender to the borrower once the loan has been paid.





Key Takeaways

A deed of reconveyance is issued when a mortgage has been paid in full.The deed of reconveyance confirms that the title has been transferred from the lender to the borrower.If a deed of reconveyance is not recorded in the local county or recorder's office, the homeowner will have difficulty selling the home.


   How a Deed of Reconveyance Works  

A deed of reconveyance is issued to borrowers once a mortgage loan has been paid in full. The document is created by the lender, is notarized, includes a legal description of the property, and is recorded in the county where the property is located.



Any title search completed on the property will show that the lien has been paid in full. Since the loan is satisfied, the borrower is no longer at risk of foreclosure.






A deed of trust is an agreement between a home buyer and a lender and states that the home buyer will repay the loan and that the mortgage lender will hold the legal title to the property until the loan is fully paid.



When a property has a lien against it, it cannot be sold. However, if an existing mortgage will be satisfied from the proceeds of the home sale, the recording of the deed of reconveyance becomes a part of the closing process of the sale, and its recording is commonly handled by a title insurance company.



When homeowners refinance their homes with a new mortgage, they also receive a deed of reconveyance showing that the previous mortgage has been paid since a new mortgage has been established in a refinancing situation.



Second mortgages or home equity loans give the lending institution a security interest in the home as the property often serves as collateral for that loan. Lenders can assert their rights to foreclose if a borrower defaults on these second loans. The deed of reconveyance related to the first mortgage has no effect on the second loan nor protects the homeowner.



A deed of reconveyance differs from state to state or from lender to lender. In states that use trust deeds rather than mortgages, a third party known as a trustee will hold the mortgage on behalf of the lender. Some states use satisfaction of mortgage documents rather than a deed of reconveyance but these serve the same purpose.


   What's Included in a Deed of Reconveyance?  

The deed of reconveyance will typically include:



The name and address of the homeowner/mortgage borrower.
The name of the lender/trustee.
A description of the property and parcel number based on the original deed.
Documentation that the borrower has fulfilled their obligation to the lender and that the property that had been secured by the mortgage or trust deed now belongs to the borrower.
Lines for signatures of all parties and a section for a notary to indicate that they witnessed the signing.


   Example of Deed of Reconveyance  

If an individual purchases a house and takes out a mortgage of $400,000, borrowing from a bank or mortgage lender, the property will serve as collateral under the deed of trust.



Once the loan is fully paid, the lender will certify that the debt has been paid and create the deed of reconveyance, usually within several weeks.



The deed of reconveyance will indicate that the mortgage loan is paid in full, and show that the borrower has the title and full ownership of the property.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


What Is the Difference Between Security Interest and Deed of Reconveyance?
The lender has a security interest in the home while the mortgage is outstanding and can foreclose on the borrower, evict them, and take possession of the home if the borrower defaults on the loan. The deed of reconveyance proves that the lender no longer has a security interest in the home and the homeowner cannot be foreclosed upon by the lending institution, and they can transfer the free and clear title of the property at any time.




What if the Deed of Conveyance Is Not Filed or Filed Improperly?
If no deed of reconveyance is recorded or if it is recorded with errors with the record’s office, such as the local county courthouse, it creates a title issue. The deed of trust will remain a burden against the property, and the homeowner may experience difficulties when trying to sell the home.




Can a Homeowner Face Foreclosure With a Deed of Conveyance?
Even after a homeowner has received a deed of reconveyance, they risk foreclosure by the local government if they don’t make timely property tax payments. This process can be initiated by written notice and without involving the court in states that recognize a nonjudicial foreclosure process. A deed of reconveyance does not protect a homeowner with unpaid property taxes.




What Is the Difference Between Conveyance and Reconveyance?
Conveyance transfers ownership of property from one entity to another. A deed is an instrument of conveyance, describing the parties and the property being transferred. A lender who holds title to the property must issue a deed of reconveyance to transfer the property title to the borrower.


   The Bottom Line  

A deed of reconveyance is a document that transfers the title of a property to the borrower from the bank or mortgage holder once a mortgage has been satisfied. It clears the lender from the title to the property. The deed of reconveyance is completed and signed by the lender and filed with the local recording office, such as the county courthouse.
What Is a Deed of Release?  

A deed of release is a legal document that removes a previous claim on an asset. It provides documentation of release from a binding agreement. A deed of release might be included when a lender transfers the title of real estate to the homeowner upon satisfaction of the mortgage. A deed of release literally releases the parties from previous obligations.





Key Takeaways

A deed of release literally releases the parties to a deal from previous obligations, such as payments under the term of a mortgage because the loan has been paid off.The lender holds the title to real property until the mortgage’s terms have been satisfied when a deed of release is commonly entered into.A deed of release can also free an employer and an employee of any obligations that they had under their employment agreement, such as in the case of a severance package.Deed of release forms can also be used to relieve personal guarantee obligations for business loans.


   How Do Deeds of Release Work?  

A good way to understand how a deed of release works is to consider it in a situation that’s common for many people: homebuying. Most individuals purchase their homes with the help of a mortgage provided by a financial institution. The bank providing the funds for the mortgage doesn’t just lend the money in good faith—it takes a legal claim against the house as collateral until the loan is paid off.



A mortgage deed of release is then created when the borrower meets all mortgage payment terms or makes a full prepayment to satisfy the loan. The lender holds the title to the property until that time and is formally a lienholder of record on the property until full and final payment is made. The title provides secured collateral for the loan payments for the life of the loan, reducing the default risk for the lender.



The lending institution’s legal counsel typically creates the deed of release when the loan has been satisfied. It reports that the loan has been paid in full under the terms required. It also states that the lien has been removed and the full title has been transferred to the homeowner.



The homeowner owns the asset free and clear after the title and deed of release are provided to her. They are no longer subject to any terms or obligations of the lender. The lending account is closed.






Be sure to have the deed of release recorded with the same agency that recorded the original mortgage, so you can be absolutely sure that any and all liens are removed.


   Types of Deeds of Release  

Employment agreements are another scenario where a deed of release might be used. The document can free both the employer and the employee of any obligations that they had under their employment agreement. In some cases, a deed of release might give an employee a designated payment. This can occur in the case of a severance package.



The deed of release can include the terms of the severance, including payment and the length of time that payments will last following the release. It might also identify confidential information that cannot be shared by the employee after termination, or restraint clauses that prevent a departing employee from forming a similar business or soliciting customers or clients.





Tip

If you’re presented with a deed of release in a workplace setting, be sure to read it through carefully to ensure that you understand what you’re agreeing to.


   Example of Deed of Release  

The most common example of a deed of release can occur when someone buys a home. When you take out a mortgage to purchase property, the property acts as collateral for the loan. Meanwhile, the lender holds the lien on the home as the entity to which you owe money. When you complete your mortgage terms and pay off the loan in full, a mortgage deed of release can be created.



Another example of a deed of release is associated with personal guarantees. A personal guarantee means that you assume personal responsibility for a debt, even if that debt is owed by a business entity that you own. If you agree to end a personal guarantee, whether the loan has been paid in full or not, you could do so through a deed of release.





Note

Agreeing to a Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) lien for a business loan creates a different set of legal and financial obligations from a personal guarantee.



It’s possible to find sample deed of release forms online, though you may pay a fee to download them. It’s also important to ensure that any deed of release form that you’re using conforms to your state’s legal guidelines for a release of deed.


  Special Considerations  

Contact the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) if you’ve failed to receive a deed of release because your lending bank failed and went into FDIC receivership. The FDIC indicates that it can usually sort out the problem for you.



The regulator offers an interactive search tool that you can use to find out if your bank was acquired by the government through receivership.

What Is Deep in the Money?  

Deep in the money is an option that has an exercise or strike price significantly below (for a call option) or above (for a put option) the market price of the underlying asset. The value of such an option is nearly all intrinsic value and minimal extrinsic or time value. Deep in the money options have deltas at or close to 1.00 (or 100%), which means the price of the option is expected to increase or decrease nearly in unison with the change in market price of the underlying security.



Deep in the money options can be contrasted with those deep out of the money, which instead have no intrinsic value and also minimal extrinsic value. These options have deltas close to zero.





Key Takeaways

Deep in the money options have strike prices that are significantly above or below the underlying's market price, and thus contain a mostly intrinsic value.These options have nearly a 100% delta, meaning that their price changes in step with every change in the underlying asset's price.Traders will often exercise deep in the money options early (if they are American style).


   Understanding Deep in the Money  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) defines deep in the money options as either:



Any option with a term of fewer than 90 days that has a strike price that is one strike less than the highest available stock price.
An option with a term of more than 90 days, with a price less than two strikes than the highest available stock price.



An option is usually said to be "deep in the money" if it is in the money (ITM) by more than $10. So, if a call option is deep in the money, it means that the strike price is at least $10 less than the underlying asset, or $10 higher for a put option. For lower-priced equities, $5 or less may be the level necessary to be deep in the money. 



The most important characteristic of this type of option is its considerable intrinsic value. To calculate the value of a call option, one must subtract the strike price from the underlying asset's market price. For a put option, you would add the strike price to the underlying asset price. 






Deep in the money options have a very high delta level, meaning that the options will move nearly in lock-step with the underlying asset. 



As a call option moves deeper into the money, its delta will approach 100%. At this delta, every point change of underlying asset price results in an equal, simultaneous option price change in the same direction.



For this reason, deep in the money options are an excellent strategy for long-term investors, especially compared to at the money (ATM) and out of the money (OTM) options. Investing in the option is similar to investing in the underlying asset, except the option holder will have the benefits of lower capital outlay, limited risk, leverage, and greater profit potential.


   Special Considerations  

Deep in the money options allow the investor to profit the same or nearly the same from a stock's movement as the holders (or short sellers) of the actual stock, despite costing less to purchase than the underlying asset. While the deep money option carries a lower capital outlay and risk; they are not without risk. 



Because options have a limited lifespan, unlike stocks, the investor (the buyer of the option) needs the underlying stock to move in the desired direction (higher for calls and lower for puts) within the specified period to make a profit. There is always the possibility that the stock will move in the opposite of the desired direction, leading the option to lose value and even potentially fall OTM. In that case, intrinsic value declines or completely disappears, leaving only the premium, which is at the mercy of time decay.



Traders will often look to close out deep in the money options by exercising them early, which is only allowed for American options—European options can only be exercised when they expire. Doing so can help clean up a trader's options position, while also capturing more favorable interest rates (in the case of deep puts) or dividends (in the case of deep calls).



This is because owning a deep put is effectively the same as being short the stock—but without being credited the short proceeds that can earn interest. Likewise, being long a deep call is effectively the same as being long the stock, but contract holders would not receive the dividends paid unless they owned the shares instead.


   Deep in the Money Example  

Suppose an investor buys a May call option for stock ABC with a strike price of $175 on Jan 1, 2019. The closing price for ABC was $210 on Jan 1, 2019, and strike prices for May call options on the same day were: $150, $175, $210, $225, and $235.



Because the option term is more than 90 days, the call option with a strike price of $150 (two strikes less than $210) is a deep in the money option. At the same time, these options both probably have deltas somewhere in the high 0.90s.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.



Correction–Dec. 24, 2021: This article has been edited to clarify that the maximum possible delta value for an option is 1.00 (sometimes called "delta one" or "100 delta").
What Is a Default?  

Default is the failure to make required interest or principal repayments on a debt, whether that debt is a loan or a security. Individuals, businesses, and even countries can default on their debt obligations. Default risk is an important consideration for creditors.





Key Takeaways

A default occurs when a borrower stops making required payments on a debt.Defaults can occur on secured debt, such as a mortgage loan secured by a house, or on unsecured debt, such as credit cards or a student loan.Defaults expose borrowers to legal claims and may limit their future access to credit opportunities.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding a Default  

A default can occur on secured debt, such as a mortgage loan secured by a house or a business loan that's secured by a company's assets. The loan could go into default if the borrower fails to make timely payments and the asset or collateral that was used to secure it would be in jeopardy. A company that's unable to make required coupon payments on its bonds would also be in default.



Defaults can occur on unsecured debt as well, such as credit card balances. A default reduces the borrower's credit score and can limit their ability to borrow in the future.


   Defaulting on Secured Debt vs. Unsecured Debt  

Its lenders or investors may sue to recover the funds when an individual, business, or country defaults on a debt. Their recovery prospects will depend in part on whether the debt is secured or unsecured.


  Secured Debt  

The bank may ultimately foreclose on a home that secures a mortgage if the borrower defaults on the mortgage. The lender can repossess the vehicle if a borrower defaults on an auto loan. These are examples of secured loans. The lender has a legal claim to a particular asset that's acquired with a secured loan.



Corporations in default on secured debt may file for bankruptcy protection to avoid forfeiture, providing time for negotiations on a settlement with creditors.


  Unsecured Debt  

A default can also occur on unsecured debt, such as medical bills and credit card balances. Unsecured debt isn't backed by an asset but the lender still has a legal claim in the event of a default. Credit card companies often wait a few months before sending an account into default.



The debt would be "charged off" after six or more months without payments being made on an outstanding balance. The lender would write it off as a loss and close the account on a debt that's been charged off. The creditor may then sell the charged-off debt to a collection agency, which would then attempt to collect from the borrower.






A collection agency that buys a charged-off, unsecured debt can have a lien or judgment placed against the borrower's assets. A judgment lien is a court ruling that gives creditors the right to take possession of a debtor's property if the debtor fails to fulfill contractual obligations.


   Defaulting on a Student Loan  

Student loans are another type of unsecured debt. Defaulting on a student loan has the same consequences as failing to pay off a credit card, affecting your credit score, your credit rating, and your future loan prospects. Those who default on federal student loans may also face wage garnishment.


  First You’re "Delinquent"  

Your loan is officially delinquent when your payment is 90 days overdue. It's reported to all three major credit bureaus so your credit rating will fall. New credit applications may be denied or approved only at a higher interest rate that can be charged to riskier borrowers.



A bad credit rating can follow you in other ways. Potential employers and potential landlords often check the credit scores of applicants, especially employees who will need a security clearance to perform the job.


  Next, You’re "in Default"  

The loan will end up in default if your payment is at least 270 days late. About one third of all federal student loan borrowers have been in default at some point.



Borrowers who don't enter a loan rehabilitation agreement with Default Resolution Group at the department's Office of Federal Student Aid can eventually be subject to withholdings of tax refunds and other federal payments, as well as garnishments of up to 15% of their take-home pay.






You can enter the federal student loan rehabilitation program or use loan consolidation if your federal student loans are in default,


  Deferment or Forbearance  

A good first step is to contact your lender as soon as you realize that you may have trouble keeping up with your payments. The lender may be able to work with you on a more attainable repayment plan or help you obtain deferment or forbearance on your loan payments.


  Temporary Aid for Student Loan Borrowers  

Student loan payments and the accumulation of interest on outstanding loans were suspended by the Department of Education (DOE) as a COVID-19 relief measure. The DOE then extended the pause on federal student loan payments in November 2022 in response to a federal court order blocking the White House’s student loan forgiveness plan.



Student loan payments were scheduled to resume 60 days after the department was permitted to implement the program or the litigation was resolved. Student loan interest then resumed on Sept. 1, 2023 with payments slated to restart in October 2023.






The DOE launched the "Fresh Start" initiative in April 2022 which helps borrowers in default keep some benefits while getting out of default. The temporary program lasted one year after the COVID-19 pause on student loan payments was lifted. Collections were stopped, you could apply for federal student aid, and your loan would be reported as "current" rather than "in collections" on your credit report.


   Sovereign Default  

Sovereign default occurs when a country doesn't repay its debts. A country that's in default usually cannot be compelled to satisfy its obligations by a court, unlike an individual or corporate debtor. But it does face a variety of other risks and problems. The economy might go into recession or the currency might devalue. The defaulting country may be shut out of debt markets for years to come.



Sovereign default can occur for a variety of reasons, including political unrest, economic mismanagement, or a banking crisis. Greece defaulted on a $1.73 billion payment to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in 2015 before securing additional debt relief from the European Union.






Fitch, a leading provider of credit ratings, downgraded the U.S. credit rating from AAA to AA+ on Aug. 1, 2023. It indicated that it foresees "fiscal deterioration" over the next three years and cited the federal government's tendency for last-minute negotiations over the country's debt ceiling. The U.S. Budget Committee has indicated that this is only the second time in the nation's history that a credit rating provider has taken this action.


   Defaulting on a Futures Contract  

Defaulting on a futures contract occurs when one party doesn't fulfill the obligations set forth by the agreement. Default usually involves a failure to settle the contract by the required date in this case.



A futures contract is a legal agreement for a future transaction involving a particular commodity or asset. One party to the contract agrees to buy at a specific date and price and the other party agrees to sell at the contract-specified milestones. They could face collections actions and lawsuits if one party defaults.


   What Happens When You Default on a Loan?  

When a borrower defaults on a loan, the consequences can include:



Negative remarks on a borrower's credit report and a reduced credit score, which is a numerical measure of a borrower's creditworthiness
Reduced likelihood of obtaining credit in the future
Higher interest rates on any new debt
Garnishment of wages, a legal process that instructs a third party to deduct payments directly from a borrower’s wages or bank account, as well as other penalties.






A default will stay on your credit reports and be factored into your credit score for seven years, according to the credit bureau Experian.


   A Real World Example  

Puerto Rico defaulted in 2015 when it paid only $628,000 toward a $58 million bond payment. Damage from Hurricane Maria in 2017 then exacerbated the island's economic and debt crisis.



Puerto Rico announced plans to cut its debt to roughly $86 billion from $129 billion in 2019 in the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history. The bankruptcy filing was authorized under a 2016 law passed by Congress. The Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA) also established a financial board to oversee the territory's public finances.



A U.S. judge approved a restructuring plan in early 2022 that cut Puerto Rico's $70 billion public debt to $37 billion as part of the bankruptcy process.




What Happens When You Default on a Payment?
Your account is ultimately sent to a debt collection agency that tries to recover your outstanding payments when you default on a loan. Defaulting on any payment will reduce your credit score, impair your ability to borrow money in the future, lead to charged fees, and possibly result in the seizure of your personal property.




How Long Does a Default Stay on Your Credit Report?
Defaults stay on your credit report for seven years. A default may be removed earlier if it can be proven that it was a mistake. Your credit score should improve after the default is removed.




What Is an Example of a Default?
A default is a missed payment or multiple missed payments on money that you've borrowed. An example of a default would be not paying your credit card bill or your monthly mortgage payment.


   The Bottom Line  

Default is the failure to make required interest or principal repayments on debt. Individuals, businesses, and countries can default on debt obligations. Failure to meet payments on a mortgage, student loan, or personal loan will affect an individual's credit rating, their ability to secure future loans, and could result in the seizure of property or wages.



Corporations can default by failing to meet coupon payments on bonds. Sovereign default occurs when a country doesn't repay its debts.
What Is the Default Rate?  

The default rate is the percentage of all outstanding loans that a lender has written off as unpaid after a prolonged period of missed payments. The term default rate–also called penalty rate–may also refer to the higher interest rate imposed on a borrower who has missed regular payments on a loan.



An individual loan is typically declared in default if payment is 270 days late. Defaulted loans are typically written off from an issuer’s financial statements and transferred to a collection agency.



The default rate of banks' loan portfolios, in addition to other indicators–such as the unemployment rate, the rate of inflation, the consumer confidence index, the level of personal bankruptcy filings, and stock market returns, among others–is sometimes used as an overall indicator of economic health.





Key Takeaways

The default rate is the percentage of all outstanding loans that a lender has written off after a prolonged period of missed payments. A loan is typically declared in default if payment is 270 days late.Default rates are an important statistical measure used by economists to assess the overall health of the economy.﻿


   Understanding the Default Rate  

Default rates are an important statistical measure used by lenders to determine their exposure to risk. If a bank is found to have a high default rate in their loan portfolio, they may be forced to reassess their lending procedures in order to reduce their credit risk–the possibility of a loss resulting from a borrower's failure to repay a loan or meet contractual obligations. The default rate is also used by economists to evaluate the overall health of the economy.



Standard & Poor's (S&P) and the credit reporting agency Experian jointly produce a number of indexes that help lenders and economists track movements over time in the level of the default rate for various types of consumer loans, including home mortgages, car loans, and consumer credit cards. Collectively, these indexes are referred to as the S&P/Experian Consumer Credit Default Indexes. Specifically, these are the names of the indexes: S&P/Experian Consumer Credit Default Composite Index; S&P/Experian First Mortgage Default Index; S&P/Experian Second Mortgage Default Index; S&P/Experian Auto Default Index; and S&P/Experian Bankcard Default Index.



The S&P/Experian Consumer Credit Default Composite Index is the most comprehensive of these indexes because it includes data on both first and second mortgages, auto loans, and bank credit cards. As of January 2020, the S&P/Experian Consumer Credit Default Composite Index reported a default rate of 1.02%. Its highest rate in the previous five years was in mid-February 2015 when it reached 1.12%.



Bank credit cards tend to have the highest default rate, which is reflected in the S&P/Experian Bankcard Default Index. The default rate on credit cards was 3.28%, as of January 2020.






A default record stays on the consumer's credit report for six years, even if the amount is eventually paid.



Lenders do not get overly concerned with missed payments until the second missed payment period is passed. When a borrower misses two consecutive loan payments (and is thus 60 days late in making payments), the account is considered delinquent and the lender reports it to the credit reporting agencies. Delinquency describes a situation wherein an individual with a contractual obligation to make payments against a debt–such as loan payments or any other kind of debt–does not make those payments on time or in a regular, timely manner.



The delinquent payment is then recorded as a black mark on the borrower's credit rating. The lender may also increase the borrower's interest rate as a penalty for late payment.



If the borrower continues to miss payments the lender will continue to report the delinquencies up until the loan is written off and declared to be in default. For federally-funded loans such as student loans, the default timeframe is approximately 270 days. The timetable for all other loan types is established by state laws.



Default on any kind of consumer debt damages the borrower’s credit score, which may make it difficult or impossible to get credit approval in the future.



The Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure (CARD) Act of 2009 created new rules for the credit card market. Notably, the Act prevents lenders from raising a card holder's interest rate because a borrower is delinquent on any other outstanding debt. In fact, a lender can only begin charging a higher default rate of interest when an account is 60 days past due.
What Is Default Risk?  

Default risk is the risk a lender takes that a borrower will not make the required payments on a debt obligation, such as a loan, a bond, or a credit card. Lenders and investors are exposed to default risk in virtually all forms of credit offerings. A higher level of default risk typically requires the borrower to pay a higher interest rate. 





Key Takeaways

Default risk refers to the likelihood that a borrower won't be able to make their required debt payments to a lender.The default risk posed by consumers can be gauged through their credit reports and credit scores.The default risk posed by companies and governments, as well as the bonds they issue, are rated by rating agencies.Borrowers who are a high default risk will typically pay higher interest rates.


   How Default Risk Is Determined  

Whenever a lender extends credit to a borrower, there is a chance that the loan, or some portion of it, will not be paid back. Default risk is the probability of this happening. Default risk can apply both to individuals and to companies that borrow money through loans or by issuing bonds.



Lenders take default risk into account when deciding whether to make a loan and in how they determine your interest rate. Investors consider default risk in deciding whether to buy a company's (or a government's) bonds, and whether the interest rate they're being offered is sufficient compensation for the risk.






Default risk can be gauged using standard measurement tools, including FICO credit scores for consumers and independent credit ratings for corporate and government debt issues.



Credit ratings for debt issues are provided by rating organizations such as Standard & Poor's (S&P), Moody's, and Fitch Ratings.



In terms of corporate debt, default risk can change as a result of broader economic forces as well as changes in that particular company's financial situation. An economic recession, for example, can impact the revenues and earnings of many companies, influencing their ability to make interest payments on their debt and, ultimately, to repay the debt entirely.



Companies may also face factors such as increased competition and lower pricing power, resulting in a similar financial impact.


   Measuring a Company's Default Risk  

Lenders generally examine a company's financial statements and employ several financial ratios to determine the likelihood of debt repayment.



Free cash flow, for example, is the cash that is calculated by subtracting capital expenditures from operating cash flow. Companies use their free cash flow for purposes such as debt and dividend payments. A free cash flow figure that is near zero or negative indicates that the company may be having trouble generating enough cash to deliver on its promised payments. This could indicate a higher default risk.



A company's interest coverage ratio is another way to assess its default risk. It is calculated by dividing a company's earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) by its periodic debt interest payments.






A higher ratio suggests that there is enough income being generated to cover interest payments, which could indicate a lower default risk.



This measure reflects a high degree of conservatism, taking into account non-cash expenses, such as depreciation and amortization. To assess coverage based purely on cash transactions, the interest coverage ratio can also be calculated by dividing earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) by periodic debt interest payments.



Rating agencies like those mentioned above evaluate corporations and corporate debt, such as bonds, to help gauge default risk. The scoring systems they use group debt into two major categories: investment grade debt and non-investment grade or speculative debt (sometimes called high-yield or "junk").






Investment-grade debt is considered to have lower default risk and is generally more sought-after by investors. Investment-grade debt comes in varying levels of risk, which the rating agencies distinguish with letter grades. The higher the grade, the lower the interest rate the company may have to pay to borrow.



Conversely, non-investment grade debt offers higher yields than safer bonds or other debt, but it also comes with a significantly higher chance of default.



While the grading scales used by the rating agencies are slightly different, most debt is graded similarly. For example, any bond issue given an AAA, AA, A, or BBB rating by S&P is considered investment grade. Anything rated BB and below is considered speculative.





Important

In August 2023, Fitch Ratings downgraded the long-term ratings of the United States to "AA+" from "AAA" due to the anticipated fiscal deterioration over the next three years, increasing government debt burden, and the erosion of governance related to 'AA' and 'AAA' rated peers over the last two decades that has resulted in multiple debt limit standoffs and 11th-hour resolutions.


   Measuring an Individual's Default Risk  

Credit bureaus collect information on consumers, which they sell to prospective lenders and other interested parties in the form of credit reports. That data is supplied to the bureaus by the individual's current and previous lenders, such as banks and credit card issuers, and shows how reliable they have been in paying their bills on time.



The assumption is that a consumer who has established a reliable record of paying their bills is less likely to be risky in the future than one whose record is more spotty. Information such as past bankruptcies can also be included in credit reports.






The information in your credit report is used to calculate a three-digit credit score. Lenders use it as one measure of a consumer's default risk.



Credit scores are based on a number of factors, with bill-payment history being the most highly weighted. Another key factor is your credit utilization ratio. That's the amount debt you have outstanding at any given time compared to your total available credit. For example, if you have two credit cards with credit limits totaling $20,000 and you owe $10,000 on them, your credit utilization ratio is 50%. (That's relatively high. Credit scores penalize ratios over 30%, and the lower, the better.)



Most credit scores range from 300 to 850. A FICO credit score over 670 is considered good. Lower scores will generally mean higher interest rates, if the borrower can get a loan or credit card at all. Higher scores often lead to lower interest rates and larger credit limits.




What Happens if You Default on a Loan?
What happens when you default on a loan depends on the type of loan and the lender's policy. In the case of a secured loan, the lender can seize the asset you used as collateral. For a consumer with an auto loan, that is usually the vehicle. For a business, the collateral might be a piece of equipment, real estate, or a cash account. With an unsecured debt, such as a credit card or personal loan, the lender can sue the borrower or turn the debt over to a collection agency.




How Does Default Affect Your Ability to Get Credit in the Future?
Defaulting on a debt makes an individual or company considerably less attractive to prospective lenders. It may be impossible for them to borrow again anytime soon, except at exorbitant interest rates (and maybe not even then). In the case of individuals, a default can remain on your credit report and have a negative effect on your credit score for up to seven years.




What Is the Difference Between Default and Delinquency?
Debt becomes delinquent when you have failed to make a single on-time payment. Default occurs after a series of delinquent payments, the number of which can vary by type of loan and lender. Both are best avoided, but default has worse consequences for your credit history.


   The Bottom Line  

Lenders and investors use various measures to determine the likelihood than an individual, a company, or a government will default on debts. The greater the odds of default, the more that the lender or investor will expect be compensated in terms of higher interest rates.
What Is Defeasance  

Defeasance is a provision in a contract that voids a bond or loan on a balance sheet when the borrower sets aside cash or bonds sufficient enough to service the debt. The borrower sets aside cash to pay off the bonds; therefore, the outstanding debt and cash offset each other on the balance sheet and do not need to be recorded.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Breaking Down Defeasance  

In the broadest sense, defeasance is any provision that nullifies the agreement in which it is contained. The provision includes various requirements that must be met, most often by the buyer, before the seller is required to release his interest in a particular property. Defeasance entails a borrower setting aside sufficient funds, often in cash and bonds, to cover his or her associated debts. This functions as a way to render the debt obligation null and void without the risk of prepayment penalties. Since the amounts owed and the amounts set aside offset, they are functionally removed from balance sheet as monitoring the accounts is generally unnecessary.


   Example of Defeasance  

One area where defeasance is used is with commercial real estate purchases. Unlike home mortgages, commercial loans may have significant prepayment penalties due to the obligations to bondholders with a stake in the commercial mortgage-backed security (CMBS) that contains the loan. Prepayment can be a problem in these situations because investors expect a certain number of interest payments to generate revenue. If a borrower pays early, they lose that future money, so to avoid this, some bonds and loans have a prepayment penalty written in. To avoid penalties, but functionally complete an early payoff, the commercial property buyer can build a portfolio with an equal value to the remaining obligations. The most common securities within these portfolios are high-quality bonds with a yield that covers the interest rate associated with the loan. This construct allows bondholders to continue receiving payments and allows the borrower to functionally pay the loan off early.


   Creating Defeasance Accounts  

The process of defeasance is generally considered complex and is rarely undertaken solely by the borrower. Often, a variety of lawyers and financial experts are necessary to ensure the portfolio is properly structured and supplies the fund's need to offset the debt owed. This is similar to liability matching used by pension fund experts, where the future income stream associated with current securities matches the future payments needed to be made.


   The Defeasance Clause  

As part of a mortgage agreement, the defeasance clause provides the borrower the right to secure the title, or deed, for the property once the debt is paid in full. Prior to that time, the financial institution backing the loan has all rights to the title, as it functions as collateral for the associated debt.



Similar arrangements also exist with a variety of other large-scale, financed purchases. This includes most vehicle loans. Once the debt is paid in full, the financing company terminates its interest in the property and subsequently releases the property to the buyer.
What Is the Defensive Interval Ratio (DIR)?  

The defensive interval ratio (DIR), also called the defensive interval period (DIP) or basic defense interval (BDI), is a financial metric that indicates the number of days that a company can operate without needing to access noncurrent assets, long-term assets whose full value cannot be obtained within the current accounting year, or additional outside financial resources.



Alternatively, this can be viewed as how long a company can operate while relying only on liquid assets. The DIR is sometimes viewed as a financial efficiency ratio but is most commonly considered a liquidity ratio.





Key Takeaways

The defensive interval ratio (DIR) seeks to calculate how many days a company can operate while relying only on liquid assets.Current assets are compared to daily expenditures to determine the defensive interval ratio.The defensive interval ratio can be viewed over time to determine if a company's liquidity buffer to meet its expenses is increasing or decreasing.Many analysts view the defensive interval ratio (DIR) as more useful than the quick ratio or current ratio as it compares assets to actual expenses rather than liabilities.Though a higher DIR number is preferred, there is no specific number that indicates what is right or better to aim for.


   Understanding the Defensive Interval Ratio (DIR)  

The DIR is considered by some market analysts to be a more useful liquidity ratio than the standard quick ratio or current ratio due to the fact that it compares assets to expenses rather than comparing assets to liabilities. The DIR is commonly used as a supplementary financial analysis ratio, along with the current or quick ratio, to evaluate a company's financial health, since there can be substantially different DIR and quick or current ratio values if, for example, a company has a large number of expenses but little or no debt.



The DIR is called the defensive interval ratio because its calculation involves a company's current assets, which are also known as defensive assets. Defensive assets consist of cash, cash equivalents, such as bonds or other investments, and other assets that can readily be converted to cash such as accounts receivables.



For example, if a company has $100,000 cash on hand, $50,000 worth of marketable securities, and $50,000 in accounts receivables, it has a total of $200,000 in defensive assets. If the company's daily operational expenses equal $5,000, the DIR value is 40 days: 200,000 / 5,000.



Of course, a higher DIR number is considered good, as not only does it show that a company can rely on its own finances, but it also provides a company with enough time to evaluate other meaningful options in paying its expenses. That being said, there is no specific number that is considered the best or right number for a DIR. It is often worth comparing the DIR of different companies in the same industry to get an idea of what is appropriate, which would also help determine which companies could be better investments.


   Formula for the Defensive Interval Ratio (DIR)  

The formula for calculating the DIR is:



DIR (expressed as number of days) = current assets / daily operational expenses



where



Current assets = cash + marketable securities + net receivables



Daily operational expenses = (annual operating expenses - noncash charges) / 365


   Advantages of the Defensive Interval Ratio (DIR)  

The DIR is a helpful tool in evaluating a company's financial health because it provides a real-world metric in number of days. In this fashion, a company knows exactly how long it can carry on business by meeting daily operational expenses without running into any financial difficulty that would likely require it to access additional funds through either new equity investment, a bank loan, or the sale of long-term assets. This is extremely important in managing its financial health, as it can manage its balance sheet before having to take on unwanted debt.



In that respect, it can be considered a more useful liquidity measure to examine than the current ratio, which, while providing a clear comparison of a company's assets to its liabilities, does not give any definitive indication of how long a company can function financially without encountering significant problems in terms of simple day-to-day operations.
What Is a Defensive Stock?  

A defensive stock is a stock that provides consistent dividends and stable earnings regardless of the state of the overall stock market. There is a constant demand for their products, so defensive stocks tend to be more stable during the various phases of the business cycle. Defensive stocks should not be confused with defense stocks, which are the stocks of companies that manufacture things like weapons, ammunition, and fighter jets.





Key Takeaways

A defensive stock is a stock that provides consistent dividends and stable earnings regardless of the state of the overall stock market.Well-established companies, such as Procter & Gamble, Johnson & Johnson, Philip Morris International, and Coca-Cola, are considered defensive stocks.Defensive stocks offer the substantial benefit of similar long-term gains with lower risk than other stocks.On the downside, the low volatility of defensive stocks often leads to smaller gains during bull markets and a cycle of mistiming the market.


   Understanding Defensive Stocks  

Investors seeking to protect their portfolios during a weakening economy or periods of high volatility may increase their exposure to defensive stocks. Well-established companies, such as Procter & Gamble (PG), Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), Philip Morris International (PM), and Coca-Cola (KO), are considered defensive stocks. In addition to strong cash flows, these companies have stable operations with the ability to weather weakening economic conditions. They also pay dividends, which can have the effect of cushioning a stock's price during a market decline.






Defensive stocks are also less likely to face bankruptcy because of their relative strength during downturns.



In difficult times or if things are getting shaky, why would anyone even want to own a stock? Why not just go for the safety of a Treasury bill, which essentially has a risk-free rate of return? The answer is quite simply that fear and greed can often drive the markets. Defensive stocks accommodate greed by offering a higher dividend yield than can be made in low-interest-rate environments. They also alleviate fear because they are not as risky as regular stocks, and it usually takes a significant catastrophe to derail their business model. Investors also need to be aware that most investment managers have no choice but to own stocks. If they think times are going to be harder than usual, they will migrate toward defensive stocks.



Defensive stocks tend to perform better than the broader market during recessions. However, during an expansion phase, they tend to perform below the market. That is attributable to their low beta or market-related risk. Defensive stocks typically have betas of less than 1. To illustrate beta, consider a stock with a beta of 0.5. If the market drops 2% in a week, then we would expect the stock to lose only about 1%. On the other hand, a 2% price gain in the market for one week leads to an expected increase of just 1% for the defensive stock with a beta of 0.5.


   Advantages of Defensive Stocks  

Defensive stocks offer the substantial benefit of similar long-term gains with lower risk than other stocks. Defensive stocks as a group have a higher Sharpe ratio than the stock market as a whole. That is a strong argument that defensive stocks are objectively better investments than other stocks. Warren Buffett also became one of the greatest investors of all-time in part by focusing on defensive stocks. It is not necessary to take excessive risks to beat the market. In fact, limiting losses with defensive stocks may be more effective.


   Disadvantages of Defensive Stocks  

On the downside, the low volatility of defensive stocks often leads to smaller gains during bull markets and a cycle of mistiming the market. Unfortunately, many investors abandon defensive stocks out of frustration with underperformance late in a bull market, when they really need them most. After a downturn in the market, investors sometimes rush into defensive stocks, even though it is too late. These failed attempts at market timing using defensive stocks can significantly lower the rate of return for investors.


   Examples of Defensive Stocks  

Defensive stocks are also known as noncyclical stocks because they are not highly correlated with the business cycle. Below are a few types of defensive stocks.


  Utilities  

Water, gas, and electric utilities are examples of defensive stocks because people need them during all phases of the business cycle. Utility companies also get another benefit from a slower economic environment because interest rates tend to be lower.


  Consumer Staples  

Companies that produce or distribute consumer staples, which are goods people tend to buy out of necessity regardless of economic conditions, are generally thought to be defensive. They include food, beverages, hygiene products, tobacco, and certain household items. These companies generate steady cash flow and predictable earnings during strong and weak economies. Their stocks tend to outperform nondefensive or consumer cyclical stocks that sell discretionary products during weak economies while underperforming them in strong economies.


  Healthcare Stocks  

Shares of major pharmaceutical companies and medical device makers have historically been considered defensive stocks. After all, there will always be sick people in need of care. However, increased competition from new drugs and uncertainty surrounding regulations mean that they aren't as defensive as they once were.


  Apartment REITs  

Apartment real estate investment trusts (REITs) are also deemed defensive, as people always need shelter. When looking for defensive plays, steer clear of REITs that focus on ultra-high-end apartments. Also, avoid office building REITs or industrial park REITs, which could see defaults on leases rise when business slows.



Disclosure: Investopedia does not provide investment advice; investors should consider their risk tolerance and investment objectives before making investment decisions.
What Is a Deferment Period?  

The deferment period is a time during which a borrower does not have to pay interest or repay the principal on a loan. The deferment period also refers to the period after the issue of a callable security during which the issuer can not call the security.



The duration of a deferment period can vary and is established in advance usually by a contract between the two parties. A student loan deferment, for example, is usually for up to three years, while many municipal bonds have a deferment period of 10 years.





Key Takeaways

A deferment period is an agreed-upon time during which a borrower does not have to pay the lender interest or principal on a loan.Depending on the loan, interest may accrue during a deferment period, which means the interest is added to the amount due at the end of the deferment period.Callable securities can also have a deferment period, which is the time during which the issuer can buy them back from the investor at a predetermined price before the maturity date.


   Understanding Deferment Periods  

The deferment period applies to student loans, mortgages, callable securities, some types of options, and benefit claims in the insurance industry. Borrowers should be careful not to confuse a deferment period with a grace period. A grace period is a length of time after a due date that a borrower can make a payment without incurring a penalty.



Grace periods are usually short windows of time, such as 15 days, when a borrower can make a payment beyond the due date without the risk of late fees or cancellation of the loan or contract. Deferment periods are usually longer time frames, such as years. In most cases, deferments are not automatic and borrowers will need to apply to their lender and receive approval for a deferment.


   Deferment Period on Student Loans  

The deferment period is common with student loans that borrowers take out to pay for educational expenses. The lender of a student loan may grant the deferment while the student is still in school or just after graduation when the student has few resources to repay the loan. The lender may also grant deferment at their discretion during other periods of financial hardship to provide the borrower with temporary relief from debt payments and as an alternative to default.



During a loan's deferment period, interest may or may not accrue. Borrowers should check their loan terms to determine whether a loan deferment means they will owe more interest than if they did not defer the payment. For most subsidized deferred student loans, interest does not accrue. However, interest does accrue on unsubsidized deferred student loans. Additionally, the lender will capitalize the interest, meaning that the interest is added to the amount due at the end of the deferment period.


   Deferment Period on Mortgages  

Usually, a newly established mortgage will include a deferment of the first payment. For example, a borrower who signs a new mortgage in March may not have to start making payments until May.



Forbearance of a mortgage differs from a deferment. Forbearance is an agreement negotiated between the borrower and the lender to temporarily postpone mortgage payments rather than having a property go into foreclosure. Lenders are more likely to grant forbearance to those borrowers who have a good history of making payments.


   Deferment Period on Callable Securities  

Different types of securities may have an embedded call option allowing the issuer to buy them back at a predetermined price before the maturity date. These securities are referred to as callable securities.



An issuer will typically “call” bonds when prevailing interest rates in the economy drop, providing an opportunity for the issuer to refinance its debt at a lower rate. However, since early redemption is unfavorable to bondholders who will stop receiving interest income after a bond is retired, the trust indenture will stipulate a call protection or a deferment period.



The deferment period is the period of time during which an issuing entity cannot redeem the bonds. The issuer cannot call the security back during the deferment period, which is uniformly predetermined by the underwriter and the issuer at the time of issuance.


   Deferment Period on Options  

European options have a deferment period for the life of the option. This means they can be exercised only on the expiry date.



Another type of option, called the Deferment Period Option, has all the characteristics of an American vanilla option. The option can be exercised anytime before it expires. However, payment is deferred until the original expiration date of the option.


   Deferment Period in Insurance  

Benefits are payable to the insured when they become incapacitated and are unable to work for a period of time. The deferred period is the period of time from when a person has become unable to work until the time that the benefit begins to be paid. It is the period of time an employee has to be out of work due to illness or injury before any benefit will start accumulating, and any claim payment will be made.


   Example of a Deferment Period  

A bond issued with 15 years to maturity may have a deferment period of six years. This means investors are guaranteed periodic interest payments for at least six years. After six years, the issuer may choose to buy back the bonds, depending on interest rates in the markets. Most municipal bonds are callable and have a deferment period of 10 years.




Do all Student Loans Eligible for a Deferment Period?
Not all. Most federally administered loans have a deferment option available, but if you have private loans, this option is not required. Many private student loan companies do have deferment options, but there is no requirement.




Does Interest Still Accrue During Deferment?
Yes. While you may not have to make payments, which typically include both interest and principal, the interest will continue to accrue, leaving you with an ever-increasing balance.




How Long Can Deferment on Student Loans Last?
Deferment on a federal student loan can last up to three years.


   The Bottom Line  

Deferment can mean various things depending on the context. If you have a student loan and are struggling to pay it, deferment may give you some much-needed breathing room. Deferment on callable securities ensures stable interest payments for a set period of time. In both situations, deferments can be used to better your financial position.
What Are Deferred Acquisition Costs (DAC)?  

Deferred acquisition costs (DAC) is an accounting method that is applicable in the insurance industry. Using the DAC method allows a company to defer the sales costs that are associated with acquiring a new customer over the term of the insurance contract.





Key Takeaways

Deferred acquisition costs (DAC) is an accounting method that is applicable in the insurance industry. Using the DAC method allows a company to defer the sales costs that are associated with acquiring a new customer over the term of the insurance contract.Using this accounting method tends to reduce the first-year strain of policy and produces a smoother pattern of earnings.Companies may only defer costs associated with the successful placement of new business and cannot amortize all back-office expenses.


   Understanding Deferred Acquisition Costs (DAC)  

Insurance companies face large upfront costs when issuing new business, including referral commissions to external distributors and brokers, underwriting, and medical expenses. Often these costs can exceed the premiums paid in the early years of different types of insurance plans.



The implementation of DAC enables insurance companies to spread out these large costs (that otherwise would be paid upfront) gradually—as they earn revenues. Using this accounting method tends to produce a smoother pattern of earnings.



As of 2012, insurers are required to comply with a new Federal Accounting Standards Board (FASB) rule, “Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts,” or ASU 2010-26.



FASB allows insurance companies to capitalize on the costs of acquiring new customers by amortizing them over time. With this process, DACs are recorded as assets—rather than expenses—and they can be paid off gradually.






Deferred acquisition costs (DAC) are treated as an asset on the balance sheet and amortized over the life of the insurance contract.



The FASB also requires that companies amortize balances on a constant level basis over the expected term of contracts. In the case of unexpected contract terminations, FASB rules that DAC must be written off, but it is not subject to an impairment test. This means that the asset is not measured to see if it is still worth the amount stated on the balance sheet.


   Special Considerations  
  Deferred Acquisition Costs (DAC) Amortization  

DAC represents the “un-recovered investment” in the policies issued and is therefore capitalized as an intangible asset to match costs with related revenues. Over time, the acquisition costs are recognized as an expense that reduces the DAC asset. The process of recognizing the costs in the income statement is known as amortization and refers to the DAC asset being amortized, or reduced over a number of years.



Amortization requires a basis that determines how much DAC should be turned into an expense for each accounting period. The amortization basis varies by the Federal Accounting Standards (FAS) classification:



FAS 60/97LP – PremiumsFAS 97 – Estimated Gross Profits (EGP)FAS 120 – Estimated Gross Margins (EGM)



Under FAS 60, assumptions are "locked-in" at policy issue and cannot be changed. However, under FAS 97 and 120, assumptions are based on estimates that can be readjusted as needed. DAC amortization uses estimated gross margins as a basis and an interest rate is applied to the DAC based on investment returns.


  Requirements for Deferred Acquisition Costs (DAC)  

Prior to the introduction of ASU 2010-26, DAC was described vaguely as costs that “vary with— and are primarily related to—the acquisition of insurance contracts.” That led companies with the difficult task of interpreting which expenses qualified for deferral and often prompted a broad range of insurance firms to categorize most of their costs as DAC.



FASB later concluded that DAC accounting was being abused. The board responded by providing clearer guidelines. ASU 2010-26 was accompanied by two important changes to meet the capitalization criteria:



Companies may only defer costs associated with the successful placement of new business, rather than all sales-related expenses.Only a portion of back-office expenses directly linked to revenues can be considered a DAC asset. 



Examples of deferrable costs include:



Commissions in excess of ultimate commissionsUnderwriting costsPolicy issuance costs
What Is a Deferred Annuity?  

A deferred annuity is a contract with an insurance company that promises to pay the owner a regular income, or a lump sum, at some future date. Investors often use deferred annuities to supplement their other retirement income, such as Social Security. Deferred annuities differ from immediate annuities, which begin making payments right away.





Key Takeaways

A deferred annuity is an insurance contract that promises to pay the buyer a regular income or a lump sum of money at some date in the future. Immediate annuities, by contrast, start paying right away.Deferred annuities come in several different types—fixed, indexed, and variable—which determine how their rates of return are computed.Withdrawals from a deferred annuity may be subject to surrender charges as well as a 10% tax penalty if the owner is under age 59½.


   How Deferred Annuities Work  

There are three basic types of deferred annuities: fixed, indexed, and variable. As their name implies, fixed annuities promise a specific, guaranteed rate of return on the money in the account. Indexed annuities provide a return that is based on the performance of a particular market index, such as the S&P 500. The return on variable annuities is based on the performance of a portfolio of mutual funds, or sub-accounts, chosen by the annuity owner.



All three types of deferred annuities grow on a tax-deferred basis. Owners of these insurance contracts pay taxes only when they make withdrawals, take a lump sum, or begin receiving income from the account. At that point, the money they receive is taxed at their ordinary income tax rate.



The period when the investor is paying into the annuity is known as the accumulation phase (or savings phase). Once the investor elects to start receiving income, the payout phase (or income phase) begins. Many deferred annuities are structured to provide income for the rest of the owner's life and sometimes for their spouse's life as well.







What Are Deferred Annuities?


   Special Considerations  

Deferred annuities should be considered long-term investments because they are less liquid than, for example, mutual funds purchased outside of an annuity.



Most annuity contracts put strict limits on withdrawals, such as allowing just one per year. Withdrawals may also be subject to surrender fees charged by the insurer. In addition, if the account holder is under age 59½, they will generally face a 10% tax penalty on the amount of the withdrawal. That's on top of the income tax they have to pay on the withdrawal.﻿﻿






Before purchasing an annuity, buyers should make sure they have enough money in a liquid emergency fund.



Prospective buyers should also be aware that annuities often have high fees, compared with other types of retirement investments. Fees can also vary widely from one insurance company to another, so it pays to shop around.



Finally, deferred annuities often include a death benefit component. If the owner dies while the annuity is still in its accumulation phase, their heirs may receive some or all of the account's value. If the annuity has entered the payout phase, however, the insurer may simply keep the remaining money unless the contract includes a provision to keep paying benefits to the owner's heirs for a certain number of years.
What Is Deferred Compensation?  

Deferred compensation is an addition to an employee's regular compensation that is set aside to be paid at a later date. In most cases, taxes on this income are deferred until it is paid out.



There are many forms of deferred compensation, including retirement plans, pension plans, and stock-option plans.





Key Takeaways

Deferred compensation plans are an incentive that employers use to hold onto key employees.Deferred compensation can be structured as either qualified or non-qualified under federal regulations.Some deferred compensation is made available only to top executives.A risk of deferred compensation in a non-qualified plan is that the employee can lose the money if the company goes bankrupt,


   How Deferred Compensation Works  

An employee may negotiate for deferred compensation because it offers immediate tax benefits. In most cases, the taxes due on the income is deferred until the compensation is paid out, often when the employee reaches retirement age.



If employees expect to be in a lower tax bracket after retiring, they have a chance to reduce their tax burden.



Roth 401(k)s are an exception, requiring the employee to pay taxes on income as it is earned. The balance in a Roth account is, however, normally tax-free when it is withdrawn. For this reason, it can be a better option, particularly for people who expect to be in a higher tax bracket after they retire.


   Types of Deferred Compensation  

There are two broad categories of deferred compensation: qualified deferred compensation and non-qualified deferred compensation. These differ greatly in their legal treatment and, from an employer's perspective, the purpose they serve.


  Qualified Deferred Compensation Plans  

Qualified deferred compensation plans are pension plans governed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), a key set of federal regulations for retirement plans.



They include 401(k) plans and 403(b) plans.



A company that has such a plan in place must offer it to all employees, though not to independent contractors.



Funds in qualifying deferred compensation plans are for the sole benefit of their recipients. Creditors cannot access the funds if the company goes bankrupt. Contributions to the plans are capped by law.


  Non-Qualifying Deferred Compensation Plans  

Non-qualified deferred compensation (NQDC) plans are also known as 409(a) plans and "golden handcuffs," As the name implies, they are typically offered only to top-level executives and key talent that the company really wants to retain.



They do not have to be offered to all employees. They also have no caps on contributions.



Independent contractors are eligible for NQDC plans. For some companies, they are a way to hire expensive talent without having to pay their full compensation immediately, meaning they can postpone funding the obligations. That approach, however, can be a gamble for the employee.



NQDCs are contractual agreements between employers and employees, so they are more flexible than qualified plans. For example, an NQDC might include a non-compete clause.



Compensation is usually paid out when the employee retires, although there can be provisions for earlier payouts in case of certain events like a change in ownership of the company or a strictly defined emergency. Depending on the terms of the contract, deferred compensation might be canceled by the company if the employee is fired, defects to a competitor, or otherwise forfeits the benefit. 



Early distributions on NQDC plans trigger heavy IRS penalties.



From the employee's perspective, NQDC plans offer a reduced tax burden and a retirement savings bonus. This is especially valued by highly compensated executives because their qualified 401(k) plans have annual contribution limits.



On the downside, the money in NQDC plans does not have the same protection as a 401(k) balance. If the company goes bankrupt, creditors can seize funds for NQDC plans.



NQDCs take different forms, including stock or options, deferred savings plans, and supplemental executive retirement plans (SERPs), otherwise known as "top hat plans."






The employee pays Social Security and Medicare taxes on the deferred income at the time of the deferral but does not pay income tax on it until the funds are actually received.


   Deferred Compensation vs. 401(k)  

If a company offers a 401(k) plan, it must offer it to all its employees.



A deferred compensation plan may be offered only to high-level executives.



Generally, those executives participate in both plans. They max out their contributions to the company 401(k) while enjoying the bonus of a deferred compensation plan.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Deferred Compensation  

Deferred compensation plans are available mainly to high-income earners who want to put away funds for retirement and find the company 401(k) plan inadequate to their needs.



Unlike 401(k)s or individual retirement accounts (IRAs), there are no contribution limits to a deferred compensation plan. An eligible employee can, for example, earmark an annual bonus as retirement savings.



The money in both of these plans can grow tax-free until it is withdrawn. (The big exception is the Roth 401(k) or IRA, in which contributions are taxed when they are transferred and no further taxes are due on withdrawals.)





Pros

No limits on contributions
Tax-deferred asset growth
Current-period tax deduction



Cons

Balances are not protected in case of company bankruptcy
The money is not available until retirement
No way to borrow against balance






There are, however, some drawbacks.


  Disadvantages of Deferred Compensation  

With a deferred compensation plan, you are effectively a creditor of the company, lending the company the salary you have deferred. If the company declares bankruptcy in the future, you can lose some or all of this money.



Even if the company remains solid, your money is locked up in many cases until retirement, meaning that you cannot access it easily.



Depending on the plan's structure, you also may find yourself with limited investment options. It may include only the company's stock, for example.



Unlike with a 401(k) plan, when funds are received from a deferred compensation plan they cannot be rolled over into an IRA account.




Is Deferred Compensation a Good Idea?
Nobody turns down a bonus, and that's what deferred compensation is.A rare exception might occur if an employee feels that the salary offer for a job is inadequate and merely looks sweeter when the deferred compensation is added in. In particular, a younger employee might be unimpressed with a bonus that won't be paid until decades down the road.In any case, the downside is that deferred compensation cannot be accessed for years, normally until the employee retires.For most employees, saving for retirement via a company's 401(k) is most appropriate. However, high-income employees may want to defer a greater amount of their income for retirement than the limits imposed by a 401(k) or IRA.




What Are the Benefits of a Deferred Compensation Plan?
The absence of contribution limits can add a great deal of value to a deferred compensation plan for a highly-paid employee.The plans also offer tax-deferred growth and a tax deduction for the period that the contributions are made.




What Is the Difference Between a 401(k) and a Deferred Compensation Plan?
A deferred compensation plan is generally an addition to a company 401(k) plan and may be offered only to a few executives and other key employees as an incentive.Deferred compensation plans are not strictly regulated. They are "non-qualified," meaning that they don't have to stick strictly to federal regulations regarding retirement plans.Financial advisors usually suggest using a deferred compensation plan only after having made the maximum possible contribution to a 401(k) plan—and only if the employer is very solid financially.




How Is Deferred Compensation Paid Out?
The distribution date may be at retirement or after a specified number of years. This must be designated at the time the plan is set up and cannot be changed.It is generally better for the employee if the deferred income is distributed over several years. A large single payout can push the recipient into a higher tax bracket for the year.Note that distributions cannot be rolled into a qualified retirement plan. That means the taxes are due for that year.




How Does Deferred Compensation Affect Your Taxes?
Those making contributions to a plan enjoy a tax deduction in that year, which can in some cases be substantial enough to help a taxpayer avoid alternative minimum tax (AMT).The funds grow tax-deferred until the payout date.If you retire in a lower tax bracket or a lower-tax jurisdiction you will benefit from the tax deferral upon retirement.


   The Bottom Line  

A 401(k) plan that includes a matching contribution from an employer is a form of deferred compensation. It is an addition to a regular salary that is payable only after the employee leaves the company or retires.



The 401(k) also is a qualified plan, meaning that the employer must stick to the federal regulations that insure the integrity of such plans.



Non-qualifying plans are less regulated. In fact, they may be tailored to an employee as a part of a larger compensation plan reserved only for high-level executives. Such a plan is known as a "golden parachute" as it is paid out only when the employee retires or, under certain conditions, leaves the company.
What Is Deferred Income Tax?  

A deferred income tax is a liability recorded on a balance sheet resulting from a difference in income recognition between tax laws and the company’s accounting methods. For this reason, the company’s payable income tax may not equate to the total tax expense reported. 



The total tax expense for a specific fiscal year may be different from the tax liability owed to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), as the company is postponing payment based on accounting rule differences.





Key Takeaways

Deferred income tax is a result of the difference in income recognition between tax laws (i.e., the Internal Revenue Service [IRS]) and accounting methods (i.e., generally accepted accounting principles [GAAP]).Deferred income tax shows up as a liability on the balance sheet.  The difference in depreciation methods used by the IRS and GAAP is the most common cause of deferred income tax. Deferred income tax can be classified as either a current or long-term liability.












Zoe Hansen / Investopedia


   What Is the Purpose of Deferred Income Tax?  

Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) guide financial accounting practices. GAAP accounting requires the calculation and disclosure of economic events in a specific manner. Income tax expense, which is a financial accounting record, is calculated using GAAP income. 






A deferred income tax liability results from the difference between the income tax expense reported on the income statement and the income tax payable.



In contrast, the IRS tax code specifies special rules on the treatment of events. The differences between IRS rules and GAAP guidelines result in different computations of net income, and subsequently, income taxes due on that income.



Situations may arise where the income tax payable on a tax return is higher than the income tax expense on a financial statement. In time, if no other reconciling events happen, the deferred income tax account would net to $0. 



However, without a deferred income tax liability account, a deferred income tax asset would be created. This account would represent the future economic benefit expected to be received because income taxes charged were in excess based on GAAP income.


   Examples of Deferred Income  

The most common situation that generates a deferred income tax liability is from differences in depreciation methods. GAAP guidelines allow businesses to choose between multiple depreciation practices. However, the IRS requires the use of a depreciation method that is different from all available GAAP methods. 



For this reason, the amount of depreciation recorded on a financial statement is usually different from the calculations found on a company’s tax return. Over the life of an asset, the value of the depreciation in both areas changes. At the end of the life of the asset, no deferred tax liability exists, as the total depreciation between the two methods is equal.




Why is deferred income tax an asset?
Deferred income tax can be considered either an asset or a liability depending on whether a company has overpaid or owes the taxes it has paid to tax authorities. However, it appears as a liability on the balance sheet.




What is deferred income tax in simple terms?
Deferred income tax is tax that must be paid in the future to account for differences in how companies recognize income and how tax authorities recognize income.




What is the difference between current tax and deferred tax?
Current tax is paid for a specific period, while deferred tax is intended to be paid in the future.
What Is Deferred Interest?  

Deferred interest is when interest payments are deferred on a loan during a specific period of time. You will not pay any interest as long as your entire balance on the loan is paid off before this period ends. If you do not pay off the loan balance before this period ends, then interest charges start accruing.



Deferred interest options are also available on mortgages, known as a deferred interest mortgage or a graduated-payment mortgage.





Key Takeaways

A deferred interest loan postpones interest payments till after a certain period of time.If the loan is not paid off by the specified time, interest starts accruing.The interest paid can sometimes be backdated to the entire loan balance and include high-interest rates.Deferred interest loans are typically found on credit cards or offered by retailers.Mortgages can also include deferred interest options, in which the unpaid interest is added to the principal balance of the loan, also known as negative amortization.Generally, deferred interest loans are not considered a financially prudent means of financing.


   Understanding Deferred Interest  

Deferred interest options are usually provided by retailers on big-ticket items, such as furniture and home appliances. It makes it easier and more attractive for a consumer to buy these items than if they had to pay upfront in full or take out a loan with interest, increasing the cost of the purchase.



Deferred interest options usually last for a specific period of time where no interest is charged. Once this period is over and if the loan balance has not been paid, then interest charges start accruing, sometimes at very high rates. It's important for a consumer to be aware of the deferred interest period as well as any fine print laying out the terms of the offer. They should also, of course, ensure that they can pay off the loan before the interest-free period is over. Retailers offer deferred interest or "no interest" items through their retail credit card or other in-house financing options.



Deferred interest loans can also be offered on credit cards. Typically as a marketing scheme to lure in consumers to sign up for a card, credit card companies offer deferred interest or no interest credit cards. These credit cards work in the same way as a deferred interest loan with a retailer, in that they offer no interest charges on the balance of the credit card for a specific period of time. Once that period is over, interest starts being charged on the remaining balance or any balance going forward. If you're considering switching from your current card to one with with a deferred interest rate (or no interest rate), make sure it's one of the best balance transfer cards currently available.



Typically, on deferred interest loans, if the balance is not fully paid off before the period ends, interest is backdated and charged on the entire, original balance, regardless of how much of the balance is left.



Mortgages that include deferred interest features work in a slightly different way. The amount of interest that is not paid on a mortgage's monthly payment is then added to the principal balance of the loan. When a loan's principal balance increases because of deferred interest, it is known as negative amortization. For example, payment option ARMs, a type of adjustable-rate mortgage, and fixed-rate mortgages with a deferrable interest feature, carry the risk of the monthly payments increasing substantially at some point over the term of the mortgage.


   Deferred Interest on Mortgages  

Before the mortgage crisis of 2008, programs such as payment option ARMs had low introductory payments for the first 2-3 years, which payments increased significantly afterwards. Mortgagors could choose a 30-year or 15-year payment, an interest-only payment covering interest but not reducing the principal balance, or a minimum payment that wouldn't even cover the interest due. The difference between the minimum payment and the interest due was the deferred interest, or negative amortization, which was added to the loan balance.



For example, say a mortgagor received a $100,000 payment option ARM at a 6% interest rate. The borrower could choose from four monthly payment options:



A fully amortizing 30-year fixed payment of $599.55A fully amortizing 15-year payment of $843.86An interest-only payment of $500A minimum payment of $321.64



Making the minimum payment means the deferred interest of $178.36 is added to the loan balance monthly.



After five years, the loan balance with deferred interest is recast, meaning the required payment increases enough so that the loan can be paid off in 25 years. The payment becomes so high that the mortgagor cannot repay the loan and ends up in foreclosure. This is one reason why loans with deferred interest are banned in some states and considered predatory by the federal government. Deferred interest mortgages typically increase the overall cost of a loan and can be a dangerous option.
What Is a Deferred Profit Sharing Plan (DPSP)?  

A deferred profit sharing plan (DPSP) is a Canadian employer-sponsored profit sharing plan intended to help employees save for retirement. The money in an employee’s DPSP account grows on a tax-deferred basis until withdrawal.





Key Takeaways

A deferred profit sharing plan (DPSP) is an employer-sponsored profit sharing plan in Canada that is meant to help employees save for retirement.Employers that offer a DPSP may elect to share their profits with all or just a select group of employees.DPSPs are often used in conjunction with other types of employer-based retirement plans.DPSPs can be funded only with employer contributions. Employees themselves cannot contribute.Employer contributions are tax deductible, while employees enjoy tax-deferred growth until they withdraw the money.


   Understanding Deferred Profit Sharing Plans (DPSPs)  

DPSPs are a type of pension plan registered with the Canada Revenue Agency, basically the Canadian version of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the United States.



On a periodic basis, the employer shares profits from the business with all employees—or a designated group of them—through the DPSP. Employees who receive a share of the profits paid out by the employer do not have to pay federal taxes on the money until they later withdraw it from the DPSP.



An employer that offers a DPSP is referred to as the sponsor of the plan. The funds are managed by a trustee.



The money in an employee’s DPSP account grows tax deferred, which can lead to bigger investment gains over time, due to the compounding effect. Employees can withdraw part or all of their vested funds prior to retirement even if they are still working for that employer. They can also transfer the money to another registered plan and maintain its tax-deferred status. Taxes are due only upon withdrawal.


   How Deferred Profit Sharing Plans (DPSPs) Work  

Contributions may be made only by employers. Employees cannot contribute.
Contributions are tax deductible to the employer. 
Individuals do not pay taxes on employer contributions until they withdraw the money.
Investment earnings are tax deferred as well.
Registered retirement savings plan (RRSP) contribution limits are reduced by DPSP contributions.
DPSPs are often combined with pension plans or a Group RRSP to provide employees with retirement income later in life.
Most plans allow individuals to decide how their DPSP money is invested, though some companies may require employees to purchase company stock with their contributions.
When an individual leaves an employer, they can transfer their DPSP money to another registered plan or use it to purchase an annuity, while maintaining its tax-deferred status. They can also cash out, though that would trigger a tax event with a tax payment required in the year when they receive the money.


   Deferred Profit Sharing Plans (DPSPs): Advantages for Employers  

For employers, a deferred profit sharing plan paired with a group retirement savings plan can be a cheaper alternative to offering a traditional pension plan. Some of the positive attributes of DPSPs from an employer perspective are:



Tax incentives. Contributions are paid out of pretax business income and are therefore tax deductible for the employer. They are also exempt from both provincial and federal payroll taxes.Cost. DPSPs can be less expensive to administer than other pension plans.Flexibility. Employers can base their contributions on their profits for the year and are not required to contribute if they didn’t make a profit.Employee retention. DPSPs give employers a valuable tool to incentivize their best workers to stick around, since the contributions are subject to a two-year vesting period.




What Are the Contribution Limits on Deferred Profit Sharing Plans (DPSPs)?
In 2022, the maximum allowable contribution to a deferred profit sharing plan (DPSP) is 18% of the employee’s compensation for the year or $15,390, whichever is less.




What Is a Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP)?
A registered retirement savings plan (RRSP) is a type of defined contribution retirement plan, much like a 401(k) in the U.S.RRSPs can be either individual plans or employer-sponsored group plans. In the latter case, the employer may also make matching contributions to the employee’s account.




What Happens If an Employee with a Deferred Profit Sharing Plan (DPSP) Dies?
If an employee with a deferred profit sharing plan (DPSP) dies, their surviving spouse or common-law partner can roll over the vested balance into a registered retirement plan of their own, while still keeping the account’s tax-deferred status. Other types of heirs will have to take the funds in cash and pay tax on them.


   The Bottom Line  

Deferred profit sharing plans (DPSPs) are a type of employer-sponsored retirement savings plan offered by some employers in Canada. DPSPs can be funded only by employers, and the money in them grows on a tax-deferred basis until the employee eventually withdraws it.
Deferred revenue, also known as unearned revenue, refers to advance payments a company receives for products or services that are to be delivered or performed in the future. The company that receives the prepayment records the amount as deferred revenue, a liability, on its balance sheet.



Deferred revenue is a liability because it reflects revenue that has not been earned and represents products or services that are owed to a customer. As the product or service is delivered over time, it is recognized proportionally as revenue on the income statement.





Key Takeaways

Deferred revenue is a liability on a company's balance sheet that represents a prepayment by its customers for goods or services that have yet to be delivered.Deferred revenue is recognized as earned revenue on the income statement as the good or service is delivered to the customer.The use of the deferred revenue account follows GAAP guidelines for accounting conservatism.If the good or service is not delivered as planned, the company may owe the money back to its customer.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   How Deferred Revenue Works  

Deferred revenue is recognized as a liability on the balance sheet of a company that receives an advance payment. This is because it has an obligation to the customer in the form of the products or services owed. The payment is considered a liability to the company because there is still the possibility that the good or service may not be delivered, or the buyer might cancel the order. In either case, the company would need to repay the customer, unless other payment terms were explicitly stated in a signed contract.





Note

Contracts can stipulate different terms, whereby it's possible that no revenue may be recorded until all of the services or products have been delivered. In other words, the payments collected from the customer would remain in deferred revenue until the customer has received in full what was due according to the contract. 



Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require certain accounting methods and conventions that encourage accounting conservatism. Accounting conservatism ensures the company is reporting the lowest possible profit. A company reporting revenue conservatively will only recognize earned revenue when it has completed certain tasks to have full claim to the money and once the likelihood of payment is certain.



Typically, as a company delivers services or products, deferred revenue is gradually recognized on the income statement to the extent the revenue is "earned." Categorizing deferred revenue as earned revenue too quickly, or simply bypassing the deferred revenue account altogether and posting it directly to revenue on the income statement, is considered aggressive accounting and effectively overstates sales revenue.



Deferred revenue is typically reported as a current liability on a company's balance sheet, as prepayment terms are typically for 12 months or less. However, if a customer made an up-front prepayment for services that are expected to be delivered over several years, the portion of the payment that pertains to services or products to be provided after 12 months from the payment date should be classified as deferred revenue under the long-term liability section of the balance sheet.


   Example of Deferred Revenue  

Deferred revenue is common with subscription-based products or services that require prepayments. Examples of unearned revenue are rent payments received in advance, prepayment received for newspaper subscriptions, annual prepayment received for the use of software, and prepaid insurance. 






The other company involved in a prepayment situation would record their advance cash outlay as a prepaid expense, an asset account, on their balance sheet. The other company recognizes their prepaid amount as an expense over time at the same rate as the first company recognizes earned revenue.



Consider a media company that receives $1,200 in advance payment at the beginning of its fiscal year from a customer for an annual newspaper subscription. Upon receipt of the payment, the company's accountant records a debit entry to the cash and cash equivalent account and a credit entry to the deferred revenue account for $1,200.



As the fiscal year progresses, the company sends the newspaper to its customer each month and recognizes revenue. Monthly, the accountant records a debit entry to the deferred revenue account, and a credit entry to the sales revenue account for $100. By the end of the fiscal year, the entire deferred revenue balance of $1,200 has been gradually booked as revenue on the income statement at the rate of $100 per month. The balance is now $0 in the deferred revenue account until next year's prepayment is made.




Can You Have Deferred Revenue in Cash Basis Accounting?
No, in cash basis accounting revenue is reported only after it has been received. As well, expenses in cash basis accounting are recorded only when they are paid.




How Do You Record Deferred Revenue in an Account?
When payment is received in advance for a service or product, the accountant records the amount as a debit entry to the cash and cash equivalent account and as a credit entry to the deferred revenue account. When the service or product is delivered, a debit entry for the amount paid is entered into the deferred revenue account, and a credit revenue is entered to sales revenue.




Can You Have Deferred Revenue in Accrual Accounting?
No, accrual accounting records revenue for products or services that have been delivered before payment has been received. In a way, this is the opposite of deferred revenue, which records revenue for services or products yet to be delivered. Accrual accounting records revenue for payments that have not yet been received for products or services already delivered.


   The Bottom Line  

Deferred revenue is recorded as such because it is money that has not yet been earned because the product or service in question has not yet been delivered. It's common for businesses to receive payments up front, but such payments are recognized as liabilities on balance sheets because the recipients still owe goods, services, or possibly a refund if the goods or services never are delivered.
What Is a Deferred Tax Asset?  

A deferred tax asset is an item on a company's balance sheet that reduces its taxable income in the future.



Such a line item asset can be found when a business overpays its taxes. This money will eventually be returned to the business in the form of tax relief. Therefore, the overpayment becomes an asset to the company.



A deferred tax asset is the opposite of a deferred tax liability, which indicates an expected increase in the amount of income tax owed by a company. 





Key Takeaways

A deferred tax asset is an item on the balance sheet that results from the overpayment or the advance payment of taxes.It is the opposite of a deferred tax liability, which represents income taxes owed.A deferred tax asset can arise when there are differences between tax rules and accounting rules.They also occur with a carryover of tax losses.Beginning in 2018, most companies could carry over a deferred tax asset indefinitely.


   Understanding Deferred Tax Assets  

A deferred tax asset is often created when taxes are paid or carried forward but cannot yet be recognized on the company's income statement.



For example, deferred tax assets can be created when the tax authorities recognize revenue or expenses at different times than those periods that the company follows, per an accounting standard.



These assets help reduce the company’s future tax liability.



It is important to note that a deferred tax asset is recognized only when the difference between the loss-value or depreciation of the asset is expected to offset its future profit.



A deferred tax asset might be compared to rent paid in advance or a refundable insurance premium. While the business no longer has the cash on hand, it does have its comparable value, and this must be reflected in its financial statements.


   Examples of Deferred Tax Assets  

One straightforward example of a deferred tax asset is the carryover of losses. If a business incurs a loss in a financial year, it usually is entitled to use that loss in order to lower its taxable income in the following years. In that sense, the loss is an asset.



Another scenario arises when there is a difference between accounting rules and tax rules. For example, deferred taxes exist when expenses are recognized in a company's income statement before they are required to be recognized by the tax authorities or when revenue is subject to taxes before it is taxable in the income statement.



Essentially, whenever the tax base or tax rules for assets and/or liabilities are different, there is an opportunity for the creation of a deferred tax asset.






There is no time limit on deferred tax assets. They can be used when it makes the most financial sense for a company. However, deferred tax assets can't be used with tax returns that have already been filed.


   How to Calculate a Deferred Tax Asset  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



Say a computer manufacturing company estimates, based on past experience, that the percentage of computers that will be sent back for warranty repairs in the next year is 2% of the total production. If the company's total revenue in year one is $3,000 and the warranty expense in its books is $60 (2% x $3,000), then the company's taxable income is $2,940.



However, most tax authorities do not allow companies to deduct expenses based on expected warranties. Thus, the company is required to pay taxes on the full $3,000.



If the tax rate for the company is 30%, the difference of $18 ($60 x 30%) between the taxes payable in the income statement and the actual taxes paid to the tax authorities is a deferred tax asset.


   Special Considerations  

There are some key characteristics of deferred tax assets to consider. First, starting in the 2018 tax year, they could be carried forward indefinitely for most companies, but are no longer able to be carried back.



The second thing to consider is how tax rates affect the value of deferred tax assets. If the tax rate goes up, it works in the company’s favor because the assets’ values also go up. This provides a bigger cushion for a larger income. But if the tax rate drops, the tax asset value also declines. This means that the company may not be able to use the whole benefit before the tax day deadline. 




Why Do Deferred Tax Assets Occur?
A balance sheet may reflect a deferred tax asset if a company has prepaid its taxes. It also may occur simply because of a difference in the time that a company pays its taxes and the time that the tax authority credits it. Or, it may indicate that the company overpaid its taxes. In such cases, the company's books need to reflect taxes paid by the company or money due to it.




Do Deferred Tax Assets Carry Forward?
Yes. Beginning in 2018, taxpayers could carry deferred tax assets forward indefinitely. They never expire and companies use them when it's most beneficial to do so.




What Is a Deferred Tax Asset vs. a Deferred Tax Liability?
A deferred tax asset represents a financial benefit, while a deferred tax liability indicates a future tax obligation or payment due. For instance, retirement savers with traditional 401(k) plans make contributions to their accounts using pre-tax income. When that money is eventually withdrawn, income tax is due on those contributions. That is a deferred tax liability.


   The Bottom Line  

A deferred tax asset relates to an overpayment or advance payment of taxes. For example, deferred tax assets can occur when there is a difference between when a tax authority recognizes revenue and when a company does, based on the accounting standards that the latter follows.



A deferred tax asset can reduce a company's taxable income in the future. Deferred tax assets are financial assets (as opposed to tangible assets) that appear on a company's balance sheet as non-current assets.
What Is a Deferred Tax Liability?  

A deferred tax liability is a listing on a company's balance sheet that records taxes that are owed but are not due to be paid until a future date.



The liability is deferred due to a difference in timing between when the tax was accrued and when it is due to be paid. For example, it might reflect a taxable transaction such as an installment sale that took place one a certain date but the taxes will not be due until a later date.





Key Takeaways

A deferred tax liability represents an obligation to pay taxes in the future.The obligation originates when a company or individual delays an event that would cause it to also recognize tax expenses in the current period.For instance, earning returns in a qualified retirement plan, like a 401(k), represents a deferred tax liability since the retirement saver will eventually have to pay taxes on the saved income and gains upon withdrawal.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   How Deferred Tax Liability Works  

The deferred tax liability on a company balance sheet represents a future tax payment that the company is obligated to pay in the future.



It is calculated as the company's anticipated tax rate times the difference between its taxable income and accounting earnings before taxes.



Deferred tax liability is the amount of taxes a company has "underpaid" which will be made up in the future. This doesn't mean that the company hasn't fulfilled its tax obligations. Rather it recognizes a payment that is not yet due.  



For example, a company that earned net income for the year knows it will have to pay corporate income taxes. Because the tax liability applies to the current year, it must reflect an expense for the same period. But the tax will not actually be paid until the next calendar year. In order to rectify the accrual/cash timing difference, tax is recorded as a deferred tax liability. 


   Examples of Deferred Tax Liability  

A common source of deferred tax liability is the difference in depreciation expense treatment by tax laws and accounting rules.



The depreciation expense for long-lived assets for financial statement purposes is typically calculated using a straight-line method, while tax regulations allow companies to use an accelerated depreciation method. Since the straight-line method produces lower depreciation when compared to that of the under accelerated method, a company's accounting income is temporarily higher than its taxable income.



The company recognizes the deferred tax liability on the differential between its accounting earnings before taxes and taxable income. As the company continues depreciating its assets, the difference between straight-line depreciation and accelerated depreciation narrows, and the amount of deferred tax liability is gradually removed through a series of offsetting accounting entries.


  Installment Sales  

Another common source of deferred tax liability is an installment sale. This is the revenue recognized when a company sells its products on credit to be paid off in equal amounts in the future.



Under accounting rules, the company is allowed to recognize full income from the installment sale of general merchandise, while tax laws require companies to recognize the income when installment payments are made.



This creates a temporary positive difference between the company's accounting earnings and taxable income, as well as a deferred tax liability.




Is Deferred Tax Liability a Good or Bad Thing?
Deferred tax liability is a record of taxes that have been incurred but have not yet been paid. This line item on a company's balance sheet reserves money for a known future expenseThat reduces the cash flow that a company has available to spend, but that's not a bad thing. The money has been earmarked for a specific purpose, i.e. paying taxes the company owes. The company could be in trouble if it spends that money on anything else.




What Is an Example of Deferred Tax Liability?
A deferred tax liability usually occurs when standard company accounting rules differ from the accounting methods used by the government. The depreciation of fixed assets is a common example.Companies typically report depreciation in their financial statements with a straight-line depreciation method. Essentially, this evenly depreciates the asset over time.But for tax purposes, the company will use an accelerated depreciation approach. Using this method, the asset depreciates at a greater rate in its early years. A company may record a straight-line depreciation of $100 in its financial statements versus an accelerated depreciation of $200 in its tax books. In turn, the deferred tax liability would equal $100 multiplied by the tax rate of the company.




How Is Deferred Tax Liability Calculated?
A company might sell a piece of furniture for $1,000 plus a 20% sales tax, payable in monthly installments by the customer. The customer will pay this over two years ($500 + $500).In its financial records, the company will record a sale of $1,000.In its tax records, it will be recorded as $500 per year for two years.The deferred tax liability would be $500 x 20% = $100.
What Is a Deficit?  

In financial terms, a deficit occurs when expenses exceed revenues, imports exceed exports, or liabilities exceed assets. A deficit is synonymous with a shortfall or loss and is the opposite of a surplus. A deficit can occur when a government, company, or person spends more than it receives in a given period, usually a year.





Key Takeaways

A deficit occurs when expenses exceed revenues, imports exceed exports, or liabilities exceed assets in a particular year.Governments and businesses sometimes run deficits deliberately, to stimulate an economy during a recession or to foster future growth.The two major types of deficits incurred by nations are budget deficits and trade deficits.







What's a Deficit?


   Understanding Deficits  

Whether the situation is personal, corporate, or governmental, running a deficit will reduce any current surplus or add to any existing debt load. For that reason, many people believe that deficits are unsustainable over the long term.



On the other hand, the famous British economist John Maynard Keynes maintained that fiscal deficits allow governments to purchase goods and services that can help stimulate their economy—making deficits a useful tool for bringing nations out of recessions.



Proponents of trade deficits say they allow countries to obtain more goods than they produce—at least for a period of time—and can also spur their domestic industries to become more competitive globally.



However, opponents of trade deficits argue that they provide jobs to foreign countries instead of creating them at home, hurting the domestic economy and its citizens. Also, many argue that governments should not incur fiscal deficits regularly because the cost of servicing the debt uses up resources that the government might deploy in more productive ways, such as providing education, housing, or public infrastructure.


   Types of Government Deficits  

The two primary types of deficits a nation can incur are budget deficits and trade deficits.


  Budget Deficit  

A budget deficit occurs when a government spends more in a given year than it collects in revenues, such as taxes. As a simple example, if a government takes in $10 billion in revenue in a particular year, and its expenditures for the same year are $12 billion, it is running a deficit of $2 billion. That deficit, added to those from previous years, constitutes the country's national debt.


  Trade Deficit  

A trade deficit exists when the value of a nation’s imports exceeds the value of its exports. For example, if a country imports $3 billion in goods but only exports $2 billion worth, then it has a trade deficit of $1 billion for that year. In effect, more money is leaving the country than is coming in, which can cause a drop in the value of its currency as well as a reduction in jobs.


   Other Deficit Terms  

Along with trade and budget deficits, these are some other deficit-related terms you may encounter:



Current account deficit is when a country is importing more goods and services than it exports.
Cyclical deficits occur when an economy is not performing well because of a down business cycle.
Deficit financing refers to the methods governments use to finance their budget deficits—such as issuing bonds or printing more money.
Deficit spending is when a government spends more than the revenue it collects during a certain period.
Fiscal deficits occur when a government's total expenditures exceed the revenue that it generates, excluding money from borrowing.
Income deficit is a measurement used by the U.S. Census Bureau to reflect the dollar amount by which a family’s income falls short of the poverty line.
Primary deficit is the fiscal deficit for the current year minus interest payments on previous borrowings.
Revenue deficit describes the shortfall of total revenue receipts compared with total revenue expenditures for a government.
Structural deficits are said to occur when a country posts a deficit even though its economy is operating at its full potential.
Twin deficits occur when an economy has both a fiscal deficit and a current account deficit.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Running a Deficit  

Deficits are not always unintentional or the sign of a government or business that's in financial trouble. Businesses may deliberately run budget deficits to maximize future earnings opportunities—such as retaining employees during slow months to ensure themselves of an adequate workforce in busier times. Also, some governments run deficits to finance large public projects or maintain programs for their citizens.



During a recession, a government may run a deficit intentionally by decreasing its sources of revenue, such as taxes, while maintaining or even increasing expenditures—on infrastructure, for example—to provide jobs and income. The theory is that these measures will boost the public’s purchasing power and ultimately stimulate the economy. 



But deficits also carry risks. For governments, the negative effects of running a deficit can include lower economic growth rates or the devaluation of the domestic currency. In the corporate world, running a deficit for too long a period can reduce the company's share value or even put it out of business.


   Today's Federal Budget Deficit in the U.S.  

In May 2023, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) projected a federal budget deficit of $1.5 trillion for 2023. The CBO specified that this is subject to considerable uncertainty partly due to a shortfall in tax revenue. In fact, as of July 2023, the deficit has surpassed the estimate, sitting at $1.6 trillion.



In terms of the national debt, the CBO projected that as of the end of 2023, federal debt held by the public (as opposed to the government itself) will reach 98% of GDP, compared with 79% at the end of 2019. For comparison purposes, before the start of the Great Recession in 2007, it stood at 35% of GDP.



At this point, the CBO also projects that debt will continue to climb, hitting 102% of GDP in 2025 and 111% in 2030.




Why Is a Deficit a Problem?
Deficits are problems because they mean you are spending more than you're earning. This applies to individuals, corporations, and governments. Deficits can result in more borrowing, more interest payments, and lower reinvestment, which can be difficult to remedy and lead to lower savings and revenue.




Why Do Countries Run Deficits?
Simply put, countries run deficits because they spend more than they earn and sometimes that spending is necessary. Countries earn income/revenue through taxes. They need to spend this money in many ways: public infrastructure, Medicare and Social Security benefits, defense, salaries for government employees, and so on. Sometimes there just isn't enough money in a year to go around so a country resorts to borrowing. Deficits, however, also allow countries to spread taxes over time by allocating taxes over generations and can lead to economic growth if managed correctly.




Which Country Has the Worst Deficit?
The United States has the largest trade balance deficit in the world: $1.3 trillion as of 2022. For comparison, the second-largest is the U.K. with a trade balance deficit of $294 billion.


   The Bottom Line  

A deficit occurs any time expenses exceed income. For personal finance, it's important to manage your financial deficits, ideally spending within your means and saving your money. Similarly, large government deficits aren't ideal but sometimes necessary to fund government programs or public infrastructure.
What Is Deficit Spending?  

In the simplest terms, deficit spending is when a government's expenditures exceed its revenues during a fiscal period, causing it to run a budget deficit. The phrase "deficit spending" often implies a Keynesian approach to economic stimulus, in which the government takes on debt while using its spending power to create demand and stimulate the economy.





Key Takeaways

Deficit spending occurs when government spending exceeds its revenue.Deficit spending often refers to intentional excess spending meant to stimulate the economy.British economist John Maynard Keynes is the most well-known proponent of deficit spending as a form of economic stimulus.


   Understanding Deficit Spending  

The concept of deficit spending as economic stimulus is typically credited to the liberal British economist John Maynard Keynes. In his 1936 book The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Employment, Keynes argued that during a recession or depression, a decline in consumer spending could be balanced by an increase in government spending.﻿﻿



To Keynes, maintaining aggregate demand—the sum of spending by consumers, businesses and the government—was key to avoiding long periods of high unemployment that can worsen a recession or depression, creating a downward spiral in which weakening demand causes businesses to lay off even more workers, and so on.



Once the economy is growing again and full employment is reached, Keynes said, the government's accumulated debt could be repaid. In the event that extra government spending caused excessive inflation, Keynes argued, the government could simply raise taxes and drain extra capital out of the economy.


   Deficit Spending and the Multiplier Effect  

Keynes believed there was a secondary benefit of government spending, something known as the multiplier effect. This theory suggests that $1 of government spending could increase total economic output by more than $1. The idea is that when the $1 changes hands, so to speak, the party on the receiving end will then go on to spend it, and on and on.






While widely accepted, deficit spending also has its critics, particularly among the conservative Chicago School of Economics.


   Criticism of Deficit Spending  

Many economists, particularly conservative ones, disagree with Keynes. Those from the Chicago School of Economics, who oppose what they describe as government interference in the economy, argue that deficit spending won't have the intended psychological effect on consumers and investors because people know that it is short-term—and ultimately will need to be offset with higher taxes and interest rates.



This view dates to 19th century British economist David Ricardo, who argued that because people know the deficit spending must eventually be repaid through higher taxes, they will save their money instead of spending it. This will deprive the economy of the fuel that deficit spending is meant to create.﻿﻿



Some economists also say deficit spending, if left unchecked, could threaten economic growth. Too much debt could cause a government to raise taxes or even default on its debt. What's more, the sale of government bonds could crowd out corporate and other private issuers, which might distort prices and interest rates in capital markets.


   Modern Monetary Theory  

A new school of economic thought called Modern Monetary Theory (MMT) has taken up fight on behalf of Keynesian deficit spending and is gaining influence, particularly on the left. Proponents of MMT argue that as long as inflation is contained, a country with its own currency doesn't need to worry about accumulating too much debt through deficit spending because it can always print more money to pay for it.
What Is a Deficit Spending Unit?  

A deficit spending unit is an economic term used to describe how an economy, or an economic group within that economy, has spent more than it has earned over a specified measurement period. Both companies and governments may experience a deficit spending unit.





Key Takeaways

A deficit spending unit describes how an economy or economic unit within an economy has spent more than it has earned over a given measurement period.The opposite of a deficit spending unit is a surplus spending unit, which leaves money for the company to redistribute.The term deficit spending unit applies not only to corporations but also to households.


   Understanding Deficit Spending Units  

Deficit spenders can be individuals, sectors, countries, or even a whole economy. When a deficit spending unit is an entire country, it is often forced to borrow from countries that operate as surplus spenders. The effects of deficit spending, if left unchecked, could be a threat to economic growth. It could force a government to raise taxes and potentially default on its debt. When an entity spends more than they take in, they may sell the debt to raise funds. Governments sell Treasury notes and other instruments, while companies may sell equity or other assets.



During times of economic hardship, governments and municipalities are likely to run deficits to shield from the effects of a recession and to spur economic growth. Although it is doubtful that an economic unit will operate at a surplus all the time, a prolonged deficit will eventually cause long-term hardship for the economy as debt levels become too high.



According to Keynesian economists, the multiplier theory suggests that a dollar of government spending could increase total economic output by more than a dollar. A multiplier, in economic terms, holds that a change will cause a ripple effect on other sectors of the economy.






Keynesians believe that as the government spends, it will cause an increase in the population's income.



In the U.S., households sometimes represent a deficit spending unit, as these households struggle financially and do not have disposable income available. As a result, they may not be able to purchase additional consumer products, hold money in banks, or invest in the stock market without government (or private) assistance.



The opposite of a deficit spending unit is a surplus spending unit, which earns more than it spends on its basic needs. Therefore, it has money left over for investment into the economy through the form of purchasing goods, investing, or lending. A surplus spending unit can be a household, business, or any other entity that makes more than it pays to sustain itself.



An example of a deficit spending unit is the state of Illinois. According to the governor's office, the state's general funds budget deficit for the fiscal year 2020 is expected to be approximately $3.2 billion as of Feb. 8, 2019, which is roughly 16% higher than the official estimate from the end of 2018.
What Is a Defined-Benefit Plan?  

A defined-benefit plan is an employer-sponsored retirement plan where employee benefits are computed using a formula that considers several factors, such as length of employment and salary history. The company is responsible for managing the plan's investments and risk and will usually hire an outside investment manager to do this.



Typically an employee cannot just withdraw funds as with a 401(k) plan. Rather, they become eligible to take their benefit as a lifetime annuity or in some cases as a lump sum at an age defined by the plan's rules.


   Understanding Defined-Benefit Plan  

Also known as pension plans or qualified-benefit plans, this type of plan is called "defined benefit" because employees and employers know the formula for calculating retirement benefits ahead of time, and they use it to define and set the benefit paid out. This fund is different from other retirement funds, like retirement savings accounts, where the payout amounts depend on investment returns.



Poor investment returns or faulty assumptions and calculations can result in a funding shortfall, where employers are legally obligated to make up the difference with a cash contribution.





Key Takeaways

A defined-benefit plan is an employer-based program that pays benefits based on factors such as length of employment and salary history.Pensions are defined-benefit plans.In contrast to defined-contribution plans, the employer, not the employee, is responsible for all of the planning and investment risk of a defined-benefit plan.Benefits can be distributed as fixed-monthly payments like an annuity or in one lump-sum payment.The surviving spouse is often entitled to the benefits if the employee passes away.



Since the employer is responsible for making investment decisions and managing the plan's investments, the employer assumes all the investment and planning risks.


   Examples of Defined-Benefit Plan Payouts  

A defined-benefit plan guarantees a specific benefit or payout upon retirement. The employer may opt for a fixed benefit or one calculated according to a formula that factors in years of service, age, and average salary. The employer typically funds the plan by contributing a regular amount, usually a percentage of the employee's pay, into a tax-deferred account. However, depending on the plan, employees may also make contributions. The employer contribution is, in effect, deferred compensation.



Upon retirement, the plan may pay monthly payments throughout the employee’s lifetime or as a lump-sum payment. For example, a plan for a retiree with 30 years of service at retirement may state the benefit as an exact dollar amount, such as $150 per month per year of the employee's service. This plan would pay the employee $4,500 per month in retirement. If the employee dies, some plans distribute any remaining benefits to the employee's beneficiaries.


   Annuity vs. Lump-Sum Payments  

Payment options commonly include a single-life annuity, which provides a fixed monthly benefit until death; a qualified joint and survivor annuity, which offers a fixed monthly benefit until death and allows the surviving spouse to continue receiving benefits thereafter; or a lump-sum payment, which pays the entire value of the plan in a single payment.






Selecting the right payment option is important because it can affect the benefit amount the employee receives. It is best to discuss benefit options with a financial advisor.



Working an additional year increases the employee's benefits, as it increases the years of service used in the benefit formula. This extra year may also increase the final salary the employer uses to calculate the benefit. In addition, there may be a stipulation that says working past the plan's normal retirement age automatically increases an employee's benefits.
What Is a Defined Contribution (DC) Plan?  

A defined contribution (DC) plan is a retirement plan that's typically tax-deferred, like a 401(k) or a 403(b), in which employees contribute a fixed amount or a percentage of their paychecks to an account that is intended to fund their retirements. In addition, the sponsor company can match a portion of employee contributions as an added benefit.



These plans place restrictions that control when and how each employee can withdraw from these accounts without penalties.





Key Takeaways

Defined contribution (DC) retirement plans allow employees to invest pre-tax dollars in the capital markets, where they can grow tax-deferred until retirement.401(k) and 403(b) are popular DC plans companies and organizations commonly use to encourage their employees to save for retirement.DC plans can be contrasted with defined benefit (DB) pensions, in which an employer guarantees retirement income.There are no guarantees with a DC plan, and participation is voluntary and self-directed.


   Understanding Defined Contribution (DC) Plans  

There is no way to know how much a DC plan will ultimately give the employee upon retiring, as contribution levels can change, and the returns on the investments may go up and down over the years.



DC plans accounted for $11 trillion of the $34.2 trillion in total retirement plan assets held in the United States as of Dec. 31, 2021, according to the Investment Company Institute (ICI). The DC plan differs from a defined benefit (DB) plan, also called a pension plan, which guarantees participants receive a certain benefit at a specific future date.



DC plans take pre-tax dollars and allow them to grow capital market investments tax-deferred. This means that income tax will ultimately be paid on withdrawals, but not until retirement age (a minimum of 59½ years old, with required minimum distributions (RMDs) starting at age 73).



The idea is that employees earn more money and thus are subject to a higher tax bracket as full-time workers and will have a lower tax bracket when they are retired. Furthermore, the income earned inside the account is not subject to taxes until the account holder withdraws it. If it's withdrawn before age 59½, a 10% penalty will apply unless exceptions are met.


   Advantages of Participating in a DC Plan  

Contributions made to a DC plan may be tax-deferred until withdrawals are made. In the Roth 401(k), the account holder makes contributions after taxes, but withdrawals are tax-free if certain qualifications are met. The tax-advantaged status of DC plans generally allows balances to grow larger over time compared to accounts that are taxed every year, such as the income on investments held in brokerage accounts.






On March 29, 2022, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the Securing a Strong Retirement Act of 2022, also known as Secure Act 2.0, which is designed to help people build enough funds from DC plans for retirement. Key provisions include mandatory automatic enrollment, a later starting age for RMDs, increased catch-up contributions, and a green light for matching contributions to be paid into Roth 401(k)s and on student loan payments.



Employer-sponsored DC plans may also receive matching contributions. The most common employer matching contribution is $0.50 per $1 contributed up to a specified percentage, but some companies match contributions dollar for dollar up to a percentage of an employee's salary, generally 4% to 6%. If your employer offers matching on your contributions, it is best to contribute at least the maximum amount they will match, as this is essentially free money that will grow over time and will benefit you in retirement.



Other features of DC plans include automatic participant enrollment, automatic contribution increases, hardship withdrawals, loan provisions, and catch-up contributions for employees aged 50 and older.


   Limitations of DC Plans  

DC plans, like a 401(k) account, require employees to invest and manage their own money to save up enough for retirement income later in life. Employees may not be financially savvy or have any other experience investing in stocks, bonds, and other asset classes. This means that some people may invest in improperly managed portfolios—for instance, a portfolio that includes too high of a ratio of their own company's stock rather than a well-diversified portfolio of various asset class indices.



Unlike defined benefit (DB) pension plans, which are professionally managed and guarantee retirement income for life from the employer as an annuity, DC plans have no such guarantees. Many workers, even if they have a well-diversified portfolio, are not putting enough away regularly and will find that they do not have enough funds to last through retirement.





$141,542

The average American retirement savings balance across all age groups, according to Vanguard's latest annual study of savings in the U.S.


   DC Plan Examples  

The 401(k) is perhaps most synonymous with the DC plan, but many other options exist. The 401(k) plan is available to the employees of publicly-owned companies. The 403(b) plan is typically open to employees of nonprofit corporations, such as schools.



Notably, 457 plans are available to employees of certain types of nonprofit businesses as well as state and municipal employees. The Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) is used for federal government employees, while 529 plans are used to fund a child's college education.



Since individual retirement accounts (IRAs) often entail defined contributions into tax-advantaged accounts with no concrete benefits, they could also be considered a DC plan.




How Is a Defined Contribution Plan Different From a Defined Benefit Plan?
With a DB plan, retirement income is guaranteed by the employer and computed using a formula that considers several factors, such as length of employment and salary history. DC plans offer no such guarantee, don’t have to be funded by employers, and are self-directed.




Can I Cash Out My Defined Contribution Pension Plan?
It’s usually necessary to keep money in the plan until you reach age 59½. You may be hit with a 10% penalty on top of any income tax you may owe if you make a withdrawal before then.




How Much Can You Contribute to a Defined Contribution Plan?
Plan participants under 50 can contribute up to $22,500 a year to a 401(k) in 2023 and up to $7,500 in catch-up contributions if they are over age 50.


   The Bottom Line  

Defined contribution plans are retirement plans where the employer, employee, or both make regular contributions of specified amounts. Many popular plans are defined contribution plans, such as the 401(k), 457, and 403(b) plans.



These plans generally require the employees to choose from investment options to fit their retirement goals, such as portfolios with higher returns and risk or more conservative portfolios with lower risk and returns.
What Is Deflation?  

Deflation is a general decline in prices for goods and services, typically associated with a contraction in the supply of money and credit in the economy. During deflation, the purchasing power of currency rises over time.





Key Takeaways

Deflation is the general decline of the price level of goods and services.Deflation is usually associated with a contraction in the supply of money and credit, but prices can also fall due to increased productivity and technological improvements.Whether the economy, price level, and money supply are deflating or inflating changes the appeal of different investment options.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Deflation  

Deflation causes the nominal costs of capital, labor, goods, and services to fall, though their relative prices may be unchanged. Deflation has been a popular concern among economists for decades. On its face, deflation benefits consumers because they can purchase more goods and services with the same nominal income over time.



However, not everyone wins from lower prices and economists are often concerned about the consequences of falling prices on various sectors of the economy, especially in financial matters. In particular, deflation can harm borrowers, who can be bound to pay their debts in money that is worth more than the money they borrowed, as well as any financial market participants who invest or speculate on the prospect of rising prices.


   Causes of Deflation  

By definition, monetary deflation can only be caused by a decrease in the supply of money or financial instruments redeemable in money. In modern times, the money supply is most influenced by central banks, such as the Federal Reserve. When the supply of money and credit falls, without a corresponding decrease in economic output, then the prices of all goods tend to fall. Periods of deflation most commonly occur after long periods of artificial monetary expansion. The early 1930s was the last time significant deflation was experienced in the United States. The major contributor to this deflationary period was the fall in the money supply following catastrophic bank failures. Other nations, such as Japan in the 1990s, have experienced deflation in modern times.



World-renowned economist Milton Friedman argued that under optimal policy, in which the central bank seeks a rate of deflation equal to the real interest rate on government bonds, the nominal rate should be zero, and the price level should fall steadily at the real rate of interest. His theory birthed the Friedman rule, a monetary policy rule.



However, declining prices can be caused by a number of other factors: a decline in aggregate demand (a decrease in the total demand for goods and services) and increased productivity. A decline in aggregate demand typically results in subsequent lower prices. Causes of this shift include reduced government spending, stock market failure, consumer desire to increase savings, and tightening monetary policies (higher interest rates). 



Falling prices can also happen naturally when the output of the economy grows faster than the supply of circulating money and credit. This occurs especially when technology advances the productivity of an economy, and is often concentrated in goods and industries which benefit from technological improvements. Companies operate more efficiently as technology advances. These operational improvements lead to lower production costs and cost savings transferred to consumers in the form of lower prices. This is distinct from but similar to general price deflation, which is a general decrease in the price level and increase in the purchasing power of money. 



Price deflation through increased productivity is different in specific industries. For example, consider how increased productivity affects the technology sector. In the last few decades, improvements in technology have resulted in significant reductions in the average cost per gigabyte of data. In 1980, the average cost of one gigabyte of data was $437,500; by 2014, the average cost was three cents. This reduction caused the prices of manufactured products that use this technology to also fall significantly.


   Changing Views on Deflation’s Impact  

Following the Great Depression, when monetary deflation coincided with high unemployment and rising defaults, most economists believed deflation was an adverse phenomenon. Thereafter, most central banks adjusted monetary policy to promote consistent increases in the money supply, even if it promoted chronic price inflation and encouraged debtors to borrow too much.



British economist John Maynard Keynes cautioned against deflation as he believed it contributed to the downward cycle of economic pessimism during recessions when owners of assets saw their asset prices fall, and so cut back on their willingness to invest. Economist Irving Fisher developed an entire theory for economic depressions based on debt deflation. Fisher argued that the liquidation of debts after a negative economic shock can induce a larger reduction in the supply of credit in the economy, which can lead to deflation which in turn puts even more pressure on debtors, leading to even more liquidations and spiraling into a depression.



In recent times, economists have increasingly challenged the old interpretations about deflation, especially after the 2004 study by economists Andrew Atkeson and Patrick Kehoe. After reviewing 17 countries across a 180-year time span, Atkeson and Kehoe found 65 out of 73 deflation episodes with no economic downturn, while 21 out of 29 depressions had no deflation. Now, a wide range of opinions exist on the usefulness of deflation and price deflation.


   Deflation Changes Debt and Equity Financing  

Deflation makes it less economical for governments, businesses, and consumers to use debt financing. However, deflation increases the economic power of savings-based equity financing.



From an investor's point of view, companies that accumulate large cash reserves or that have relatively little debt are more attractive under deflation. The opposite is true of highly indebted businesses with little cash holdings. Deflation also encourages rising yields and increases the necessary risk premium on securities.
What Is the Degree of Combined Leverage (DCL)?  

A degree of combined leverage (DCL) is a leverage ratio that summarizes the combined effect that the degree of operating leverage (DOL) and the degree of financial leverage has on earnings per share (EPS), given a particular change in sales. This ratio can be used to help determine the most optimal level of financial and operating leverage to use in any firm.


   The Formula for the Degree of Combined Leverage Is  

﻿















D


C


L


=




%


 


C


h


a


n


g


e


 


i


n


 


E


P


S




%


 


C


h


a


n


g


e


 


i


n


 


s


a


l


e


s




=


D


O


L


 


 x 


D


F


L
















where:
















D


O


L


=


Degree of operating leverage
















D


F


L


=


Degree of financial leverage








\begin{aligned} &DCL=\frac{\%\ Change\ in\ EPS}{\%\ Change\ in\ sales}=DOL\ \text{ x } DFL \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &DOL = \text{Degree of operating leverage}\\ &DFL = \text{Degree of financial leverage}\\ \end{aligned}


​DCL=% Change in sales% Change in EPS​=DOL  x DFLwhere:DOL=Degree of operating leverageDFL=Degree of financial leverage​﻿





Key Takeaways

The DCL formula summarizes the effects that the combined degree of operating leverage and degree of financial leverage have on a company's earnings per share, based on a given change in shares.The ratio helps a company discern its best possible levels of operational and financial leverage.The formula helps companies understand how the combined leverage affects the company's total earnings.


   What Does the DCL Tell You?  

This ratio summarizes the effects of combining financial and operating leverage, and what effect this combination, or variations of this combination, has on the corporation's earnings. While not all corporations use both operating and financial leverage, this formula can be used if they do.






A firm with a relatively high level of combined leverage is seen as riskier than a firm with less combined leverage because high leverage means more fixed costs to the firm.


  Degree of Operating Leverage  

The degree of operating leverage measures the effects that operating leverage has on a company's earnings potential and indicates how earnings are affected by sales activity. The degree of operating leverage is calculated by dividing the percentage change of a company's earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) by the percentage change of its sales over the same period.


  Degree of Financial Leverage  

The degree of financial leverage is calculated by dividing the percentage change in a company's EPS by its percentage change in EBIT. The ratio indicates how a company's EPS is affected by percentage changes in its EBIT. A higher degree of financial leverage indicates that the company has more volatile EPS.


   Degree of Combined Leverage Example  

As stated previously, the degree of combined leverage may be calculated by multiplying the degree of operating leverage by the degree of financial leverage. Assume hypothetical company SpaceRocket had an EBIT of $50 million for the current fiscal year and an EBIT of $40 million for the previous fiscal year, or a 25% increase year over year (YOY). SpaceRocket reported sales of $80 million for the current fiscal year and sales of $65 million for the previous fiscal year, a 23.08% increase.



Additionally, SpaceRocket reported an EPS of $2.50 for the current fiscal year, and an EPS of $2 for the previous fiscal year, a 25% increase. SpaceRocket thus had a degree of operating leverage of 1.08 and a degree of financial leverage of 1. Consequently, SpaceRocket had a degree of combined leverage of 1.08. For every 1% change in SpaceRocket's sales, its EPS would change by 1.08%.
What Is a Degree of Financial Leverage - DFL?  

A degree of financial leverage (DFL) is a leverage ratio that measures the sensitivity of a company’s earnings per share (EPS) to fluctuations in its operating income, as a result of changes in its capital structure. The degree of financial leverage (DFL) measures the percentage change in EPS for a unit change in operating income, also known as earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT).



This ratio indicates that the higher the degree of financial leverage, the more volatile earnings will be. Since interest is usually a fixed expense, leverage magnifies returns and EPS. This is good when operating income is rising, but it can be a problem when operating income is under pressure.


   The Formula for DFL Is  

﻿




DFL


=




%


change in EPS




%


change in EBIT





\text{DFL}=\frac{\%\text{change in EPS}}{\%\text{change in EBIT}}


DFL=%change in EBIT%change in EPS​﻿



DFL can also be represented by the equation below:



﻿




DFL


=




EBIT




EBIT 


−


 Interest





\text{DFL}=\frac{\text{EBIT}}{\text{EBIT }-\text{ Interest}}


DFL=EBIT − InterestEBIT​﻿


   What Does Degree of Financial Leverage Tell You?  

The higher the DFL, the more volatile earnings per share (EPS) will be. Since interest is a fixed expense, leverage magnifies returns and EPS, which is good when operating income is rising but can be a problem during tough economic times when operating income is under pressure.



DFL is invaluable in helping a company assess the amount of debt or financial leverage it should opt for in its capital structure. If operating income is relatively stable, then earnings and EPS would be stable as well, and the company can afford to take on a significant amount of debt. However, if the company operates in a sector where operating income is quite volatile, it may be prudent to limit debt to easily manageable levels.



The use of financial leverage varies greatly by industry and by the business sector. There are many industry sectors in which companies operate with a high degree of financial leverage. Retail stores, airlines, grocery stores, utility companies, and banking institutions are classic examples. Unfortunately, the excessive use of financial leverage by many companies in these sectors has played a paramount role in forcing a lot of them to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.



Examples include R.H. Macy (1992), Trans World Airlines (2001), Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co (A&P) (2010) and Midwest Generation (2012). Moreover, excessive use of financial leverage was the primary culprit that led to the U.S. financial crisis between 2007 and 2009. The demise of Lehman Brothers (2008) and a host of other highly levered financial institutions are prime examples of the negative ramifications that are associated with the use of highly levered capital structures.





Key Takeaways

The degree of financial leverage (DFL) is a leverage ratio that measures the sensitivity of a company’s earnings per share to fluctuations in its operating income, as a result of changes in its capital structure.This ratio indicates that the higher the degree of financial leverage, the more volatile earnings will be.The use of financial leverage varies greatly by industry and by the business sector.


   Example of How to Use DFL  

Consider the following example to illustrate the concept. Assume hypothetical company BigBox Inc. has operating income or earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) of $100 million in Year 1, with interest expense of $10 million, and has 100 million shares outstanding. (For the sake of clarity, let’s ignore the effect of taxes for the moment.)



EPS for BigBox in Year 1 would thus be:



﻿






Operating Income of $100 Million 


−


 $10 Million Interest Expense




100 Million Shares Outstanding




=


$


0


.


9


0



\frac{\text{Operating Income of \$100 Million }-\text{ \$10 Million Interest Expense}}{\text{100 Million Shares Outstanding}}=\$0.90


100 Million Shares OutstandingOperating Income of $100 Million − $10 Million Interest Expense​=$0.90﻿



The degree of financial leverage (DFL) is:



﻿






$100 Million




$100 Million 


−


 $10 Million




=


1


.


1


1



\frac{\text{\$100 Million}}{\text{\$100 Million }-\text{ \$10 Million}}=1.11


$100 Million − $10 Million$100 Million​=1.11﻿



This means that for every 1% change in EBIT or operating income, EPS would change by 1.11%.



Now assume that BigBox has a 20% increase in operating income in Year 2. Notably, interest expenses remain unchanged at $10 million in Year 2 as well. EPS for BigBox in Year 2 would thus be:



﻿






Operating Income of $120 Million 


−


 $10 Million Interest Expense




100 Million Shares Outstanding




=


$


1


.


1


0



\frac{\text{Operating Income of \$120 Million }-\text{ \$10 Million Interest Expense}}{\text{100 Million Shares Outstanding}}=\$1.10


100 Million Shares OutstandingOperating Income of $120 Million − $10 Million Interest Expense​=$1.10﻿



In this instance, EPS has increased from 90 cents in Year 1 to $1.10 in Year 2, which represents a change of 22.2%.



This could also be obtained from the DFL number = 1.11 x 20% (EBIT change) = 22.2%.



If EBIT had decreased instead to $70 million in Year 2, what would have been the impact on EPS? EPS would have declined by 33.3% (i.e., DFL of 1.11 x -30% change in EBIT). This can be easily verified since EPS, in this case, would have been 60 cents, which represents a 33.3% decline.
What Is the Degree of Operating Leverage (DOL)?  

The degree of operating leverage (DOL) is a multiple that measures how much the operating income of a company will change in response to a change in sales. Companies with a large proportion of fixed costs (or costs that don't change with production) to variable costs (costs that change with production volume) have higher levels of operating leverage.



The DOL ratio assists analysts in determining the impact of any change in sales on company earnings or profit.


   Formula and Calculation of Degree of Operating Leverage  

﻿















D


O


L


=




%


 change in 


E


B


I


T




%


 change in sales


















where:
















E


B


I


T


=


earnings before income and taxes








\begin{aligned} &DOL = \frac{\% \text{ change in }EBIT}{\% \text{ change in sales}} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &EBIT=\text{earnings before income and taxes}\\ \end{aligned}


​DOL=% change in sales% change in EBIT​where:EBIT=earnings before income and taxes​﻿



There are a number of alternative ways to calculate the DOL, each based on the primary formula given above:



﻿




Degree of operating leverage


=




change in operating income




changes in sales





\text{Degree of operating leverage} = \frac{\text{change in operating income}}{\text{changes in sales}}


Degree of operating leverage=changes in saleschange in operating income​﻿



﻿




Degree of operating leverage


=




contribution margin 




operating income





\text{Degree of operating leverage} = \frac{\text{contribution margin }}{\text{operating income}}


Degree of operating leverage=operating incomecontribution margin ​﻿



﻿




Degree of operating leverage


=




sales – variable costs




sales – variable costs – fixed costs





\text{Degree of operating leverage} = \frac{\text{sales -- variable costs}}{\text{sales -- variable costs -- fixed costs}}


Degree of operating leverage=sales – variable costs – fixed costssales – variable costs​﻿



﻿




Degree of operating leverage


=




contribution margin percentage




operating margin





\text{Degree of operating leverage} = \frac{\text{contribution margin percentage}}{\text{operating margin}}


Degree of operating leverage=operating margincontribution margin percentage​﻿





Key Takeaways

The degree of operating leverage measures how much a company's operating income changes in response to a change in sales. The DOL ratio assists analysts in determining the impact of any change in sales on company earnings. A company with high operating leverage has a large proportion of fixed costs, meaning a big increase in sales can lead to outsized changes in profits.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   What the Degree of Operating Leverage Can Tell You  

The higher the degree of operating leverage (DOL), the more sensitive a company’s earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) are to changes in sales, assuming all other variables remain constant. The DOL ratio helps analysts determine what the impact of any change in sales will be on the company’s earnings.



Operating leverage measures a company’s fixed costs as a percentage of its total costs. It is used to evaluate a business’ breakeven point—which is where sales are high enough to pay for all costs, and the profit is zero. A company with high operating leverage has a large proportion of fixed costs—which means that a big increase in sales can lead to outsized changes in profits. A company with low operating leverage has a large proportion of variable costs—which means that it earns a smaller profit on each sale, but does not have to increase sales as much to cover its lower fixed costs.


   Example of How to Use Degree of Operating Leverage  

As a hypothetical example, say Company X has $500,000 in sales in year one and $600,000 in sales in year two. In year one, the company's operating expenses were $150,000, while in year two, the operating expenses were $175,000.



﻿















Year one 


E


B


I


T


=


$


5


0


0


,


0


0


0


−


$


1


5


0


,


0


0


0


=


$


3


5


0


,


0


0


0
















Year two 


E


B


I


T


=


$


6


0


0


,


0


0


0


−


$


1


7


5


,


0


0


0


=


$


4


2


5


,


0


0


0








\begin{aligned} &\text{Year one }EBIT = \$500,000 - \$150,000 = \$350,000 \\ &\text{Year two }EBIT = \$600,000 - \$175,000 = \$425,000 \\ \end{aligned}


​Year one EBIT=$500,000−$150,000=$350,000Year two EBIT=$600,000−$175,000=$425,000​﻿



Next, the percentage change in the EBIT values and the percentage change in the sales figures are calculated as:



﻿









%


 change in 


E


B


I


T









=


(


$


4


2


5


,


0


0


0


÷


$


3


5


0


,


0


0


0


)


−


1
















=


2


1


.


4


3


%










%


 change in sales









=


(


$


6


0


0


,


0


0


0


÷


$


5


0


0


,


0


0


0


)


−


1
















=


2


0


%








\begin{aligned} \% \text{ change in }EBIT &= (\$425,000 \div \$350,000) - 1 \\ &= 21.43\% \\ \% \text{ change in sales} &= (\$600,000 \div \$500,000) -1 \\ &= 20\% \\ \end{aligned}


% change in EBIT% change in sales​=($425,000÷$350,000)−1=21.43%=($600,000÷$500,000)−1=20%​﻿



Lastly, the DOL ratio is calculated as:



﻿









D


O


L









=




%


 change in operating income




%


 change in sales


















=




2


1


.


4


3


%




2


0


%


















=


1


.


0


7


1


4








\begin{aligned} DOL &= \frac{\% \text{ change in operating income}}{\% \text{ change in sales}} \\ &= \frac{21.43\%}{ 20\%} \\ &= 1.0714 \\ \end{aligned}


DOL​=% change in sales% change in operating income​=20%21.43%​=1.0714​﻿


   The Difference Between Degree of Operating Leverage and Degree of Combined Leverage  

The degree of combined leverage (DCL) extends the degree of operating leverage to get a fuller picture of a company's ability to generate profits from sales. It multiplies DOL by degrees of financial leverage (DFL) weighted by the ratio of %change in earnings per share (EPS) over %change in sales:



This ratio summarizes the effects of combining financial and operating leverage, and what effect this combination, or variations of this combination, has on the corporation's earnings. Not all corporations use both operating and financial leverage, but this formula can be used if they do. A firm with a relatively high level of combined leverage is seen as riskier than a firm with less combined leverage because high leverage means more fixed costs to the firm.
What Are Degrees of Freedom?  

Degrees of freedom are the maximum number of logically independent values, which may vary in a data sample. Degrees of freedom are calculated by subtracting one from the number of items within the data sample.





Key Takeaways

Degrees of freedom refer to the maximum number of logically independent values, which may vary in a data sample.Degrees of freedom are calculated by subtracting one from the number of items within the data sample.The earliest concept of degrees of freedom was noted in the early 1800s with the works of mathematician and astronomer Carl Friedrich Gauss. Degrees of freedom are commonly discussed in various forms of hypothesis testing in statistics, such as a chi-square.Degrees of freedom can describe business situations where management must make a decision that dictates the outcome of another variable.


   Understanding Degrees of Freedom  

Degrees of freedom are the number of independent variables that can be estimated in a statistical analysis and tell you how many items can be randomly selected before constraints must be put in place.



Within a data set, some initial numbers can be chosen at random. However, if the data set must add up to a specific sum or mean, for example, the number in the data set is constrained to evaluate the values of all other values in a data set, then meet the set requirement.


   Examples of Degrees of Freedom  

Example 1: Consider a data sample consisting of five positive integers. The values of the five integers must have an average of six. If four items within the data set are {3, 8, 5, and 4}, the fifth number must be 10. Because the first four numbers can be chosen at random, the degree of freedom is four.



Example 2: Consider a data sample consisting of five positive integers. The values could be any number with no known relationship between them. Because all five can be chosen at random with no limitations, the degree of freedom is four.



Example 3: Consider a data sample consisting of one integer. That integer must be odd. Because there are constraints on the single item within the data set, the degree of freedom is zero.


   Degrees of Freedom Formula  

The formula to determine degrees of freedom is:
















D


f



=


N


−


1
















where:

















D


f



=


degrees of freedom
















N


=


sample size







\begin{aligned} &\text{D}_\text{f} = N - 1 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{D}_\text{f} = \text{degrees of freedom} \\ &N = \text{sample size} \\ \end{aligned}


​Df​=N−1where:Df​=degrees of freedomN=sample size​
For example, imagine a task of selecting ten baseball players whose batting average must average to .250. The total number of players that will make up our data set is the sample size, so N = 10. In this example, 9 (10 - 1) baseball players can be randomly picked, with the 10th baseball player having a specific batting average to adhere to the .250 batting average constraint.






Some calculations of degrees of freedom with multiple parameters or relationships use the formula Df = N - P, where P is the number of different parameters or relationships. For example, in a 2-sample t-test, N - 2 is used because there are two parameters to estimate.


   Applying Degrees of Freedom  

In statistics, degrees of freedom define the shape of the t-distribution used in t-tests when calculating the p-value. Depending on the sample size, different degrees of freedom will display different t-distributions. Calculating degrees of freedom is critical when understanding the importance of a chi-square statistic and the validity of the null hypothesis.



Degrees of freedom also have conceptual applications outside of statistics. Consider a company deciding the purchase of raw materials for its manufacturing process. The company has two items within this data set: the amount of raw materials to acquire and the total cost of the raw materials.



The company freely decides one of the two items, but their choice will dictate the outcome of the other. Because it can only freely choose one of the two, it has one degree of freedom in this situation. If the company decides the amount of raw materials, it cannot decide the total amount spent. By setting the total amount to spend, the company may be limited in the amount of raw materials it can acquire.


   Chi-Square Tests  

There are two different kinds of chi-square tests: the test of independence, which asks a question of relationship, such as, "Is there a relationship between gender and SAT scores?"; and the goodness-of-fit test, which asks something like "If a coin is tossed 100 times, will it come up heads 50 times and tails 50 times?"



For these tests, degrees of freedom are utilized to determine if a null hypothesis can be rejected based on the total number of variables and samples within the experiment. For example, when considering students and course choice, a sample size of 30 or 40 students is likely not large enough to generate significant data. Getting the same or similar results from a study using a sample size of 400 or 500 students is more valid.


   T-Test  

To perform a t-test, you must calculate the value of t for the sample and compare it to a critical value. The critical value will vary, and you can determine the correct critical value by using a data set's t distribution with the degrees of freedom.



Sets with lower degrees of freedom have a higher probability of extreme values, and higher degrees of freedom, such as a sample size of at least 30, will be much closer to a normal distribution curve. Smaller sample sizes will correspond with smaller degrees of freedom and result in fatter t-distribution tails.



In the examples above, many of the situations may be used as a 1-sample t-test. For instance, 'Example 1,' where five values are selected but must add up to a specific average, can be defined as a 1-sample t-test. This is because there is only one constraint being placed on the variable.


   History of Degrees of Freedom  

The earliest and most basic concept of degrees of freedom was noted in the early 1800s, intertwined in the works of mathematician and astronomer Carl Friedrich Gauss. The modern usage and understanding of the term were expounded upon first by William Sealy Gosset, an English statistician, in his article "The Probable Error of a Mean," published in Biometrika in 1908 under a pen name to preserve his anonymity.



In his writings, Gosset did not specifically use the term "degrees of freedom." He did explain the concept throughout developing what would eventually be known as "Student’s T-distribution." The term was not popular until 1922. English biologist and statistician Ronald Fisher began using the term "degrees of freedom" when he published reports and data on his work developing chi-squares.




How Do You Determine Degrees of Freedom?
When determining the mean of a set of data, degrees of freedom are calculated as the number of items within a set minus one. This is because all items within that set can be randomly selected until one remains; that one item must conform to a given average.




What Does Degrees of Freedom Tell You?
Degrees of freedom tell you how many units within a set can be selected without constraints to still abide by a given rule overseeing the set. For example, consider a set of five items that add to an average value of 20. Degrees of freedom tell you how many of the items (4) can be randomly selected before constraints must be put in place. In this example, once the first four items are picked, you no longer have the liberty to randomly select a data point because you must "force balance" to the given average.




Is the Degree of Freedom Always 1?
Degrees of freedom are always the number of units within a given set minus 1. It is always minus one because, if parameters are placed on the data set, the last data item must be specific so all other points conform to that outcome.


   The Bottom Line  

Some statistical analysis processes may call for an indication of the number of independent values that can vary within an analysis to meet constraint requirements. This indication is the degrees of freedom, the number of units in a sample size that can be chosen randomly before a specific value must be picked.
What Is a Delaware Corporation?  

A Delaware corporation is a company that is legally registered in the state of Delaware but may conduct business in any state. Delaware first began to adapt its laws in the late 19th century, making changes that would attract businesses away from other states such as New York. Over time, Delaware became a respected state in which to incorporate, even if the majority of a company's business was conducted outside the state.





Key Takeaways

Delaware corporations are companies that are legally registered in the state of Delaware but can conduct business anywhere.Roughly half of the companies listed on the S&P 500 are incorporated in Delaware because it is perceived as being business-friendly.Delaware especially appeals to financial firms due to usury laws which give banks and credit card companies the freedom to charge high-interest rates on loans.


   Delaware Corporations Explained  

Incorporating in Delaware has become widespread among large U.S. companies; about half of the S&P 500 members are incorporated in the state. This is especially true of the financial sector. Delaware has business-friendly usury laws, which allow banks and credit card companies to have much more freedom to charge high-interest rates on loans.



Usury laws are state-based legislation that establishes limits on the amount of interest that can be applied to loans and other forms of financing. This is a form of consumer protection that regulates how much interest businesses can charge their local customers. Delaware usury laws, by comparison, give lenders greater leeway to charge interest.



The state’s legislation also applies to operations and business conducted in other states. In other words, a company incorporated in Delaware can charge interest rates in accordance with Delaware usury law rather than local usury laws even when doing business with customers nationwide.



This particular benefit of incorporation in Delaware has prompted other states to adopt more business-friendly laws. For example, some states now allow locally incorporated businesses to charge interest rates on a par with out-of-state companies that do business within the state.






Delaware is currently the leading domicile for public companies, but this could conceivably change in the future; New Jersey was once the go-to state until modern U.S. corporation laws made it a less advantageous location.


   Ways Delaware Corporations Benefit  

Incorporation in Delaware affords companies numerous benefits. Businesses might not have to disclose who their officers and directors when they file documents in the state at the time of a company’s formation. Furthermore, if the business does not conduct its operations in Delaware, the state’s corporate income tax may not apply. Instead of paying that income tax, those Delaware corporations instead pay a franchise tax.



Delaware’s franchise tax is an annual flat fee for limited partnerships and limited liability companies. The franchise tax for corporations is calculated based on the type of corporation, the number of authorized shares, and other factors.



Delaware's Court of Chancery is a well-respected court of equity that resolves disputes between Delaware corporations and has an extensive set of precedents, statutes and case studies from their 200-plus years of operation. Decisions from the Court of Chancery have routinely set the benchmark for U.S. corporate law; the court's experience can be very beneficial to Delaware-incorporated companies that seek guidance on particular issues.
What Is a Delayed Draw Term Loan?  

A delayed draw term loan (DDTL) is a special feature in a term loan that lets a borrower withdraw predefined amounts of a total pre-approved loan amount. The withdrawal periods—such as every three, six, or nine months—are also determined in advance. A DDTL is included as a provision of the borrower's agreement, which lenders may offer to businesses with high credit standings. A DDTL is often included in contractual loan deals for businesses who use the loan proceeds as financing for future acquisitions or expansion.


   Understanding Delayed Draw Term Loans  

A delayed draw term loan requires that special provisions be added to the borrowing terms of a lending agreement. For example, at the origination of the loan, the lender and borrower may agree to the terms that the borrower may take out $1 million every quarter out of a loan valued at a total of $10 million. Such provisions allow a lender to manage its cash requirements better.





Key Takeaways

A delayed draw term loan is a provision in a term loan that specifies when and how much the borrower receives.The DDTL typically has specific time periods, such as three, six, or time months, for the periodic payments, or the timing of the payments can be based on company milestones.The provisions allow a lender to better manage cash requirements.The delayed draw gives the borrower the flexibility of knowing when they will see guaranteed, periodic cash flows.



In some cases, the terms of the delayed installment payouts are based on milestones achieved by the company, such as sales growth requirement or meeting a specified number of unit sales by a specific time. Earnings growth and other financial milestones might also be considered. For example, a company is required to meet or exceed a certain level of earnings in each quarter of its fiscal year in order to receive the payouts from a delayed term loan.



For the borrower, a delayed draw term loan offers a limit on how much it can draw on a loan, which can act as a governor to spending, thereby reducing its debt burden and interest payments. At the same time, the delayed draw gives the borrower the flexibility of knowing that it will have a guaranteed periodic cash infusion.


   DDTL Special Considerations  

Generally, delayed draw term loan provisions are included in institutional lending deals involving more substantial payouts than consumer loans, with greater complexity and maintenance. These types of loans can have complicated structures and terms. They are most commonly offered to businesses with high credit ratings, and usually come with more favorable interest rates for the borrower than other credit options.



Since 2017, however, DDTLs have seen increased use in the larger, broadly syndicated leveraged loan market in loans worth several hundred millions of dollars. The leveraged loan market is known for lending to individuals and companies with high debt or poor credit histories.



Delayed draw term loans can be structured in a number of ways. They may be part of a single lending agreement between a financial institution and a business or they may be included as part of a syndicated loan deal. In any situation, there are different types of contractual caveats or requirements borrowers must meet.






Once provided by middle-market lenders via non-syndicated leveraged loans, delayed draw term loan terms have become popular in larger, broadly syndicated leveraged loans.



When structuring the terms of a delayed draw term loan, underwriters may consider such factors as maintenance of cash levels, revenue growth, and earnings projections. Often a business may be required to maintain a certain level of cash on hand or report a minimum quick ratio factor for term loan installments to be dispersed over various time periods. Liquidity-focused factors limit the borrower from performing some particular acts, such as overleveraging, but they are still considered a flexible feature for a term loan.
What Is Deleveraging?  

Deleveraging is when a company or individual attempts to decrease its total financial leverage. In other words, deleveraging is the reduction of debt and the opposite of leveraging. The most direct way for an entity to deleverage is to immediately pay off any existing debts and obligations on its balance sheet. If unable to do this, the company or individual may be in a position of an increased risk of default.





Key Takeaways

To deleverage is to reduce outstanding debt without incurring any new debt.The goal of deleveraging is to reduce the relative percentage of a business's balance sheet funded by liabilities.Too much systemic deleveraging can lead to financial recession and a credit crunch.


   Understanding Deleverage  

Leverage (or debt) has advantages, such as tax benefits on the interest deducted, deferred cash outlays, and avoiding equity dilution. Debt has become an integral aspect of our society—at the most basic level, businesses use it to finance their operations, fund expansions, and pay for research and development.



However, if companies take on too much debt, the interest payments or cost to service that debt can do financial harm to the company. As a result, companies are sometimes forced to deleverage or pay down debt by liquidating or selling their assets or restructuring their debt.



If used properly, debt can be a catalyst to help a company fund its long-term growth. By using debt, businesses can pay their bills without issuing more equity, thus preventing the dilution of shareholders' earnings. Share dilution occurs when companies issue stock, which leads to a reduction in the percentage of ownership of existing shareholders or investors. Although companies can raise capital or funds by issuing shares of stock, the drawback is that it can lead to a lower stock price for existing shareholders due to share dilution.


  Issuing Debt  

The alternative is for companies to borrow money. A company could issue debt directly to investors in the form of bonds. The investors would pay the company a principal amount upfront for the bond and in return, get paid periodic interest payments as well as the principal back at the bond's maturity date. Companies could also raise money by borrowing from a bank or creditor.



For example, if a company formed with an investment of $5 million from investors, the equity in the company is $5 million—the money the company uses to operate. If the company further incorporates debt financing by borrowing $20 million, the company now has $25 million to invest in capital budgeting projects and more opportunity to increase value for the fixed number of shareholders.


  Deleveraging Debt  

Companies will often take on excessive amounts of debt to initiate growth. However, using leverage substantially increases the riskiness of the firm. If leverage does not further growth as planned, the risk can become too much for a company to bear. In these situations, all the firm can do is delever by paying off debt. Deleverage may be a red flag to investors who require growth in their companies.



The goal of deleveraging is to reduce the relative percentage of a business's balance sheet that is funded by liabilities. Essentially, this can be accomplished in one of two ways. First, a company or individual can raise cash through business operations and use that excess cash to eliminate liabilities. Second, existing assets such as equipment, stocks, bonds, real estate, business arms, to name a few, can be sold, and the resulting proceeds can be directed to paying off debt. In either case, the debt portion of the balance sheet will be reduced.






The personal savings rate is one indicator of deleveraging, as people save more money, they are not borrowing.﻿﻿


   When Deleveraging Goes Wrong  

Wall Street can greet a successful deleveraging favorably. For instance, announcements of major layoffs can send share prices rising. However, deleveraging doesn't always go as planned. When the need to raise capital to reduce debt levels forces firms to sell off assets that they don't wish to sell at fire-sale prices, the price of a company's shares generally suffers in the short run.



Worse yet, when investors get the feeling that a company is holding bad debts and unable to deleverage, the value of that debt plummets even further. Companies are then forced to sell it at a loss if they can sell it at all. Inability to sell or service the debt can result in business failure. Firms that hold the toxic debt of failing companies can face a substantial blow to their balance sheets as the market for those fixed income instruments collapses. Such was the case for firms holding the debt of Lehman Brothers prior to its 2008 collapse.


   Economic Effects of Deleveraging  

Borrowing and credit are integral pieces of economic growth and corporate expansion. When too many people and firms decide to pay off their debts all at once and not take on any more, the economy can suffer. Although deleveraging is typically good for companies, if it occurs during a recession or an economic downturn, it can limit credit growth in an economy. As companies deleverage and cut their borrowing, the downward spiral in the economy can accelerate.



As a result, the government is forced to step in and take on debt (leverage) to buy assets and put a floor under prices or to encourage spending. This fiscal stimulus can come in a variety of forms, including buying mortgage-backed securities to prop up housing prices and encourage bank lending, issuing government-backed guarantees to prop up the value of certain securities, taking financial positions in failing companies, providing tax rebates directly to consumers, subsidizing the purchase of appliances or automobiles through tax credits, or a host of similar actions.



The Federal Reserve can also lower the federal funds rate to make it less expensive for banks to borrow money from each other, push down interest rates and encourage the banks to lend to consumers and businesses.﻿﻿






Taxpayers are usually responsible for paying off federal debt when governments bail out businesses that have suffered and are going through the deleveraging process.


   Examples of Deleveraging and Financial Ratios  

For example, let's assume Company X has $2,000,000 in assets, of which, $1,000,000 is funded by debt and $1,000,000 is funded by equity. During the year, Company X earns $500,000 in net income or profit.



Although there are many financial ratios available to measure a company's financial health, three of the key ratios that we'll be using are outlined below.



Return on assets (ROA) is the total assets divided by net income, which shows how well a company earns money on its long-term assets such as equipment.
Return on equity (ROE) is calculated by dividing net income by shareholders' equity, which shows how well a company earns a profit by using the capital it raised from issuing equity shares.
Debt-to-equity (D/E) is calculated by dividing a company's liabilities by shareholders' equity. Debt-to-equity shows how a company is financing its growth and whether there are sufficient equity shares to cover its debt.



Below are the ratio calculations using the financial information from Company X.



Return on assets = $500,000 / $2,000,000 = 25%Return on equity = $500,000 / $1,000,000 = 50%Debt-to-equity = $1,000,000 / $1,000,000 = 100%



Instead of the above scenario, assume that at the beginning of the year the company decided to use $800,000 of assets to pay off $800,000 of liabilities. In this scenario, Company X would now have $1,200,000 in assets, of which $200,000 is funded by debt and $1,000,000 is funded by equity. If the company made the same $500,000 during the course of the year, its return on assets, return on equity, and debt-to-equity values would be as follows:



Return on assets = $500,000 / $1,200,000 = 41.7%Return on equity = $500,000 / $1,000,000 = 50%Debt-to-equity = $200,000 / $1,000,000 = 20%



The second set of ratios show the company to be much healthier, and investors or lenders would thus find the second scenario more favorable.
What Is a Delinquency Rate?  

Delinquency rate refers to the percentage of loans within a financial institution's loan portfolio whose payments are delinquent. When analyzing and investing in loans, the delinquency rate is an important metric to follow; it is easy to find comprehensive statistics on the delinquencies of all types of loans.


   How Delinquency Rates Work  
  Tracking Delinquency Rates  

Typically, a lender will not report a loan as being delinquent until the borrower has missed two consecutive payments, after which a lender will report to the credit reporting agencies, or "credit bureaus," that the borrower is 60 days late in their payment. If late payments persist, then each month that the borrower is late, the lender may continue reporting the delinquency to the credit agencies for as long as 270 days.



After 270 days of late payments, the code of federal regulations considers any type of federal loan to be in default. Loans between borrowers and private-sector lenders follow individual U.S. state codes that define when a loan is in default. To begin the process of retrieving delinquent payments, lenders generally work with third-party collection agents.


  Reporting Delinquency Rates  

The credit bureaus may give borrowers various delinquency rate marks on the individual tradelines included with their credit reports. If a borrower is consistently delinquent, they will receive marks for 60 days late, 90 days late, and so on. If a borrower makes a payment and defaults again, then a new cycle of delinquency appears on the tradeline. When considering a borrower for credit approval, credit agencies and lenders consider all of a borrower's delinquent marks.



Often, especially with corporate debt, lenders will report total delinquency rates on loans according to the borrower's credit quality; this can help investors gain insights into the risks involved with specific loans.


  Calculating Delinquency Rates  

To calculate a delinquency rate, divide the number of loans that are delinquent by the total number of loans that an institution holds. For example, if there are 1,000 loans in a bank's loan portfolio, and 100 of those loans have delinquent payments of 60 days or more, then the delinquency rate would be 10% (100 divided by 1,000 equals 10%).


   Special Considerations: Publicly Reported Delinquency Rates  

The Federal Reserve System (FRS) provides public data on delinquency rates quarterly across the U.S. financial market. As of the first quarter of 2022, (the most recent quarter for which data have been compiled), the total delinquency rate from loans and leases at commercial banks was 1.40%. Residential real estate loans reported the highest delinquency rate at 2.13%. Consumer credit cards reported the second-highest delinquency rate at 1.73%.




What Kinds of Loans Have the Highest Delinquency Rates?
Student loans have the highest delinquency rates overall, at 12% through the period of May 2021-May 2022, according to the Federal Reserve. Although the percentage has declined since reaching a high of 17% in the fall of 2019, prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Student loan delinquencies have declined throughout the pandemic as a result of the payment relief included in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) and various executive orders.




What Kinds of Bank Loans Have the Highest Delinquency Rates?
As per the Federal Reserve, the types of loans with the highest delinquency rates as of 2022 are residential real estate loans, followed by consumer credit cards, miscellaneous consumer loans, farmland real estate loans, consumer agricultural loans, consumer C&I loans, consumer leases, and commercial real estate loans.Of all the types of loans the Federal Reserve tracks, residential real estate loans have the highest delinquency rate at 2.13%, and commercial real estate loans have the lowest delinquency rate at 0.78%. 




Can Having Delinquencies Prevent You From Getting a Loan?
Yes, the presence of delinquencies on a prospective borrower's credit report can be a deterrent in obtaining a loan, particularly if there are multiple cycles of delinquency.
What Does Delinquent Mean?  

The term delinquent refers to the state of being in arrears. When someone is delinquent, they are past due on their financial obligation(s), such as a loan, credit card, or bond payments. This means a borrower's payments are not made to satisfy their debt(s) in a timely manner. Delinquent entities can be either individuals or corporations. Financial delinquency often leads to default if the arrears aren't brought up to date.



The term may also be used to describe the failure to perform a duty by financial professionals.





Key Takeaways

Being delinquent refers to the state of being past due on a debt.Delinquency occurs as soon as a borrower misses a payment on a loan, which can affect their credit score.Delinquency rates are used to show how many accounts in a financial institution's portfolio are delinquent.Consistently delinquent borrowers end up in default.Financial professionals who fail to live up to their duties and responsibilities are considered delinquent.


   How Being Delinquent Works  

As noted above, the meaning of the word delinquent depends on how it's being used. In finance, it commonly refers to a situation where a borrower is late or overdue on a payment, such as income taxes, a mortgage, an automobile loan, or a credit card account. An account that's at least 30 days past due is generally considered to be delinquent.



The consequences for being delinquent vary based on the account, contract, and creditor. Too many delinquencies in a row can lead a debtor into default. Factors include the type, duration, and cause of the delinquency. For instance, if you don't make your credit card payment, you may have to pay a late fee. Mortgage lenders, on the other hand, can initiate foreclosure proceedings if homeowners don't bring their payments up to date within a certain amount of time.



Delinquencies also affect your credit rating. Your payment history is a major consideration in calculating your credit score. In fact, it makes up 35% of the total score, so being delinquent can drag it down. Keep in mind, though, that a few delinquent payments may not make a huge impact, but it will if you are consistently late or don't pay at all.


   Special Considerations  

Delinquency also describes a dereliction of duty or neglect by a financial professional. For example, a registered investment advisor who puts a conservative, income-oriented client into a highly speculative stock could be found delinquent in his fiduciary duties. If an insurance company fails to warn a universal life policyholder that their policy is in danger of lapsing due to insufficient premium payments, it could be considered delinquent.






Most people are familiar with the legal definition of delinquent, which is commonly used to describe someone (usually a younger individual) who commits minor crimes.


   Delinquent vs. Default  

Delinquency occurs as soon as a borrower misses a payment on a loan. Being consistently delinquent can lead to default. Default occurs when a borrower fails to repay a debt as specified in the original contract. Most creditors allow borrowers to remain in delinquency for some time before it is considered to be in default. The length of time it takes to go into default varies based on the lender and the type of debt.



For example, the U.S. government allows student debt to be delinquent for 270 days before declaring it to be in default. Most lenders consider single-family mortgages seriously delinquent if they are 90 days behind in payment, after which they are in default and subject to foreclosure.



Lenders often work with borrowers to help bring delinquent or defaulted accounts up to date, which means you may be able to bring your account up to date. The lender may not take any other action if you can come up with a suitable arrangement. Keep in mind, though, that significant delinquencies and defaults will affect your credit score.



If you can't make a payment arrangement during default, the lender may proceed with further action. For instance, your account may be sent to a third-party agency for collections. If you still can't pay, the creditor may pursue legal action and seek judgment against you. If the debt is secured, the lender can sell the security and pay off the debt. You may still be liable for any remaining balance or additional fees.






Read your contract to find out how long it takes for your lender to consider you in delinquency and in default.


   Current and Historical Delinquency Rates  

The delinquency rate is the amount of debt that is past due. This rate is expressed as a percentage and is generally used to characterize a financial institution's lending portfolio. Delinquency rates are calculated by dividing the total number of delinquent loans by the total number of loans held by a lender. Lower delinquency rates mean fewer people are late on their payments.



The Federal Reserve tracks delinquency rates in the United States every quarter. As of the fourth quarter of 2021, the average rate for all loans and leases was 1.53%. Residential real estate delinquencies were highest, with a rate of 2.33% while credit cards topped the list of delinquency rates for consumer loans at 1.62.



The rate has steadily dropped since the recovery period following the 2007-2008 financial crisis. For instance, the overall delinquency rate during the first quarter of 2010 was 7.4%, which included rates of 11.54% and 5.78% for residential real estate and credit cards, respectively.


   Delinquent Credit Cards  

Credit card delinquencies happen when you fail to make your regular monthly payments. These intervals are normally divided into days. You are generally considered delinquent if you're 30 days past due, although some lenders wait until you're 45 or 60 days to report late payments as being delinquent.



Remember, being delinquent impacts your credit score. A few late payments here or there won't make a major dent in your rating, but multiple delinquencies will add up to a lower score. You can expect to take a big hit if you have three to four missed payments, especially if they occur in a row. This can prevent you from getting credit in the future.


   Delinquent Loans  

Loans work a little differently than other types of debt. When you sign up for a loan, you agree to repay the lender a specific amount of money at regular intervals until the debt is paid off. The lender determines the due date and, in some cases, may allow you to set this date based on your personal financial situation.



Most lenders also include a grace period, which may be a few days after your due date. If you make your payment on or before this date, it may not be considered late but you may still incur interest but not a late payment fee. If you fail to make the payment before, you are considered delinquent. Your loan is in delinquent status even if you make your payment a day or two after the due date.


   Real-World Example of Being Delinquent  

Here's an example of what it means to be delinquent. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York found that in the fourth quarter of 2018, delinquent U.S. student loans reached $166 billion. However, the bank stated that delinquency rates for student loans are likely understated by as much as half, meaning that about $333 billion of student loan debt has not been serviced in at least three months as of the end of Q4 2018. This figure underscores the true extent of the student loan crisis.




What Is an Act of Delinquency?
The definition of being in delinquency depends on the context in which it's being used. In finance, it often refers to the state of being late on a debt. For instance, a borrower is considered delinquent if they don't make their credit card payment on time.Being delinquent can also mean that a financial professional neglects to live up to their fiduciary responsibilities. An investment advisor who suggests that a retired client invest in a risky venture is deemed as being delinquent.




Can a Delinquency Be Removed?
Delinquencies are reported to credit reporting agencies. But just because it appears on your history doesn't mean that it's impossible to remove it from your credit report.Submit a report either online or in writing to the credit bureau disputing the delinquency. You should also contact the lender to see what can be done, especially if you had a good reason for allowing the account to go into delinquency status. You may have to offer to pay the account balance to have it deleted from your credit report.




How Can You Prevent Delinquency?
There are several ways to prevent delinquencies. Some options include automatic payments, which help individuals who have a difficult time keeping up with payment schedules. Sign up for e-billing so you receive email invoices rather than paper copies from your lenders. You can also ask your lender to move due dates closer to your pay dates.




What Is a Delinquent Status?
A delinquent status means that you are behind in your payments. The length of time varies by lender and the type of debt, but this period generally falls anywhere between 30 to 90 days.
What Is a Delinquent Account Credit Card?  

From the perspective of a credit card company, a particular credit card is said to be delinquent if the customer in question has failed to make their minimum monthly payment for 30 days from their original due date.



Generally, credit card companies will begin reaching out to the customer once their minimum amount due on the account has been late for 30 days. If the account is still delinquent for 60 days or longer, then the credit card company will typically begin the process of debt collection. This process can involve legal action and the use of credit collection firms.





Key Takeaways

In the context of credit cards, delinquent accounts are those that have not made at least a minimum payment for 30 days or more.Credit card companies manage their risk of loss from delinquent accounts by seeking to contact and negotiate with the borrower and using internal or third-party credit collection services.Delinquencies can remain on a borrower's credit report for up to seven years, resulting in a lower credit score, making it difficult to utilize other forms of debt.


   Understanding a Delinquent Account Credit Card  

One of the first steps taken by credit card companies upon detecting a delinquent account is to try to contact the account holder. If an agreement can be reached with the customer in a timely fashion, the credit card company may not take any further action. However, if an agreement cannot be reached, the company will likely begin by reporting the delinquent account to a credit reporting agency.



For this reason, delinquent accounts can have a severe negative effect on a borrower's credit rating, particularly if the delinquency persists beyond the 60-day mark. Generally, the immediate impact of delinquency is a 25- to 50-point decrease in the borrower's credit score. However, additional decreases can occur if the delinquency is not corrected thereafter.



Account delinquencies are one of the most challenging factors to overcome for borrowers seeking to improve their credit score, as they can remain on a borrower's credit report for up to seven years. For some borrowers, this could mean dropping from a very competitive credit score to one which is merely acceptable, such as dropping from 740 points to 660. Depending on the terms of the credit card in question, the borrower may also be faced with additional monetary penalties if their account becomes delinquent.



Most credit issuers maintain proprietary debt collection services for early delinquencies. However, delinquent credit card accounts that remain unpaid will eventually get sold to a third-party debt collector. These debt collectors are charged with obtaining the original debt owed with interest and may take legal action.



Debt that is considered written off is also reported to credit bureaus and can have an even greater negative impact on a borrower's credit score than one-off delinquencies that are subsequently corrected.



Credit card debt is a significant issue in the United States, with a total of $807 billion owed across approximately 506 million cards in 2021. The average American family credit card debt is $6,270 with 45.4% of American families carrying some credit card debt.


   Example of a Delinquent Account Credit Card  

Mark is a client of XYZ Financial, where he holds a credit card. He uses his credit card regularly for a variety of purchases and typically pays only the minimum payment required each month.



One month, however, Mark forgets to make his payment and is contacted 30 days later by XYZ. He is told by XYZ that his account has become delinquent and that he should promptly make up for the lost payment in order to avoid incurring a negative impact on his credit score. Because the missed payment was unintentional, Mark apologizes for the oversight and promptly makes up for the lost payment.



If Mark had refused to make up the lost payment, XYZ may have had to collect on his debt. To do so, they would have first reported the delinquency to one or more credit reporting agencies. Then they would either seek to collect the debt themselves, or they would rely on a third-party debt collection service. If Mark was unable to pay his outstanding debt, this would have impacted his credit score.
What Is Delisting?  

Delisting is the removal of a listed security from a stock exchange. The delisting of a security can be voluntary or involuntary and usually results when a company ceases operations, declares bankruptcy, merges, does not meet listing requirements, or seeks to become private.





Key Takeaways

Delisting occurs when a stock is removed from a stock exchange.It can be either mandatory or voluntary.Some companies opt to go private or get taken over by companies that want them out of the public eye.Stocks that fail to meet the exchange’s requirements risk being kicked out and delisted.The consequences of delisting are significant, and some companies strenuously avoid being delisted.


   How Delisting Works  

Companies must meet specific guidelines, called listing standards, before they can be listed on an exchange. Each exchange, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), establishes its own set of rules and regulations for listings. Companies that fail to meet the minimum standards set by an exchange will be involuntarily delisted.



The most common standard is price. For example, a company with a share price under $1 per share for a period of months may find itself at risk of being delisted.



Alternatively, a company can voluntarily request to be delisted. Some companies choose to become privately traded when they identify, through a cost-benefit analysis, that the costs of being publicly listed exceed the benefits. Requests to delist often occur when companies are purchased by private equity firms and will be reorganized by new shareholders. These companies can apply for delisting to become privately traded. Also, when listed companies merge and trade as a new entity, the formerly separate companies voluntarily request delisting.






Companies usually delist because they want to go private, are taken over by private equity firms, or fail to meet the minimum standards set by their exchange.


  Involuntary Delisting of a Company  

The reasons for delisting include violating regulations and failing to meet minimum financial standards. Financial standards include the ability to maintain a minimum share price, financial ratios, and sales levels. When a company does not meet listing requirements, the listing exchange issues a warning of noncompliance. If noncompliance continues, the exchange delists the company’s stock. More reasons for being delisted are discussed below.



To avoid being delisted, some companies will undergo a reverse split of their stock shares. This has the effect of combining several shares into one and multiplying the share price. For example, if a company executes a 1-for-10 reverse split, it could raise its share price from 50 cents per share to five dollars per share, in which case it would no longer be at risk of delisting.






One way for companies to get around minimum share price rules is by engaging in a reverse split.



The consequences of delisting can be significant since stock shares not traded on one of the major stock exchanges are more difficult for investors to research and harder to purchase. This means that the company is unable to issue new shares to the market to establish new financial initiatives.



Often, involuntary delistings are indicative of a company’s poor financial health or poor corporate governance. Warnings issued by an exchange should be taken seriously. For example, on April 23, 2023, Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. filed for voluntary Chapter 11 protection. As a result, NASDAQ informed the company that Bed Bath & Beyond's common stock would be suspended at the opening of business on May 3, 2023. As communicated, the stock has been delisted.



In the United States, delisted securities may be traded OTC except when they are delisted to become a private company or because of liquidation.


   What Are Common Reasons Companies Get Delisted?  

While there is no infallible method to predict stock delistings, there are certain warning indicators that may suggest that a stock is at risk of being removed from trading. These were discussed briefly above; below is a more comprehensive list of indicators that may indicate when a company's stock may be delisted. Be mindful that this list may not be exhaustive.



Regulatory Compliance: If a company fails to meet the listing standards specified by the stock exchange such as maintaining a minimum share price, a minimum market capitalization, or publishing regular financial reports, the company runs the risk of being delisted. 
Financial Difficulty: Companies that are facing financial difficulties such as dropping sales, mounting debts, or sustained losses may be at a higher risk of having their stock delisted from the market. 
Legal Problems: Serious violations of regulatory standards might result in delisting. Examples of such violations include fraud, accounting issues, or a failure to comply with applicable securities laws.
Bankruptcy: Delisting of a firm's Stock may result from bankruptcy or considerable reorganization. If a firm declares bankruptcy or goes through considerable reorganization, the stock of that company may be delisted.
Low Trading Volumes: Stocks that have persistently low trading volumes may be at risk of being delisted, as exchanges frequently have minimum requirements in place to ensure investor interest and sufficient liquidity.
Governance Standards: A failure to comply to standards for corporate governance, such as having an insufficient number of independent directors or an ineffective audit committee, may both raise concerns and lead to delisting of the company.
Changes in Listing Requirements: There may be changes to the listing requirements of the exchange where the stock is listed, and these changes might put corporations at danger of delisting if they fail to meet the new criteria within the allotted amount of time.


   What Is the Process of Delisting?  

When a company fails to comply with listing requirements, it will receive adequate warning. Delisting doesn’t happen overnight. Notifications are made and time is granted to the subject to get its affairs in order. If the noncompliance continues after these warnings are made, the company will then be removed from the exchange. 



Voluntary delisting works differently. If a company decides it no longer wants to operate in the public eye, it must consult with its stakeholders first. A resolution has to be passed in a board meeting and put to shareholders.



Once enough shareholders are on board, the company needs to get the green light from the stock exchange that it wishes to delist from and put out a statement outlining its intent. An investment bank will be in charge of managing the delisting. One of its first jobs is making sure there is enough money to buy back the shares.






Investment banks don’t just assist companies to list their shares. They are also recruited to help with the delisting process.



In order to delist, the company essentially needs to buy back a certain percentage of shares from the total outstanding. This threshold is decided by the exchange. To buy these shares, a bidding process occurs. A fair price is negotiated and announced to the public, and the company pays up within a specified deadline to see its delisting through. To convince investors, the company will usually have to pay them a premium to the current share price.


   What Happens to My Shares After Delisting?  

When a company delists voluntarily, shareholders will usually receive cash to buy them out or shares in the new, acquiring company. When it is forced to go, the outcome is usually different. No special offer comes. You either find a buyer on the exchange or are left holding a stake in a company that’s no longer listed.



Holding delisted stocks generally isn’t very desirable. The shares don’t disappear but do become much more difficult to trade. Once off the exchange, they can trade OTC. These markets don’t offer the same accessibility and liquidity as the major exchanges. You’ll be faced with higher transaction costs and wider bid-ask spreads.



Another factor to consider is that there’s less regulation outside of the major exchanges. Requirements are more relaxed, including those relating to communications, leaving investors more in the dark and unaware of what is going on within the company in which they’re invested.


   What Should I Do After Delisting?   

If you still hold shares after they’ve been delisted, your next step depends a lot on what you’re invested in, how convinced you are about its prospects, and whether you have the stomach to deal with the murkier, less transparent alternative exchanges.



You can still sell the shares, but the conditions to do so will now be generally less favorable. Volume thins out when you leave a major exchange. With OTC transactions, there are fewer buyers and sellers, meaning wider bid-ask spreads and getting less than the going rate. In some cases, you may only be able to trade the shares by appointment.






In most cases, it’s best to sell stock before it delists.




Can I Sell My Shares After a Delisting?
If you still hold shares after they are delisted, you can sell them—just not on the exchange on which they traded before. Stock exchanges are very advantageous for buying and selling shares. When they delist and trade over the counter (OTC), selling shares and getting a reasonable price for them becomes much harder.




Can a Delisted Company Get Re-Listed?
Yes, it is possible for a delisted company to get re-listed. A lot depends on the circumstances of being delisted. Those forced to leave often find it difficult to get their affairs back in order and bounce back, especially without the funding opportunities that the stock market provides. There are a few success stories, though.




Can a Delisting Be Good for a Company?
Delisting isn’t always as bad as people make it out to be. Many household names have chosen to delist their shares and go private for good reason. And some, such as Dell, prospered from the benefits of being private.


   The Bottom Line  

A company is delisted when it is removed from a stock exchange. No longer selling shares to the public can be voluntary or involuntary. Companies may prefer to go private to avoid having to answer to the public and jump through regulatory hoops. Alternatively, they may be kicked out of the exchange for failing to meet its listing requirements or because they ran out of money and went bankrupt.



Investors holding shares after a delisting will only be able to sell them OTC. That generally means less liquidity, finding it harder to locate buyers at the price you want, and potentially being left in the dark about what the company is up to.
What Are Deliverables?  

The term "deliverables" is a project management term that's traditionally used to describe the quantifiable goods or services that must be provided upon the completion of a project. Deliverables can be tangible or intangible in nature. For example, in a project focusing on upgrading a firm's technology, a deliverable may refer to the acquisition of a dozen new computers.



On the other hand, for a software project, a deliverable might allude to the implementation of a computer program aimed at improving a company's accounts receivable computational efficiency.





Key Takeaways

The word "deliverables" is a project management term describing the quantifiable goods or services that must be provided upon the completion of a project.Deliverables can be tangible in nature, such as the acquisition of a dozen new computers, or they can be intangible, like the implementation of a computer program aimed at improving a company's accounts receivable computational efficiency.A deliverable may refer to in-person or online training programs, as well as design samples for products in the process of being developed.In many cases, deliverables are accompanied by instruction manuals.In film production, deliverables refer to the range of audio, visual, and paperwork files that producers must furnish to distributors.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Deliverables  

In addition to computer equipment and software programs, a deliverable may refer to in-person or online training programs, as well as design samples for products in the process of being developed. In many cases, deliverables are accompanied by instruction manuals.


  Documentation  

Deliverables are usually contractually obligated requirements, detailed in agreements drawn up between two related parties within a company, or between a client and an outside consultant or developer. The documentation precisely articulates the description of a deliverable, as well as the delivery timeline and payment terms.


  Milestones  

Many large projects include milestones, which are interim goals and targets that must be achieved by stipulated points in time. A milestone may refer to a portion of the deliverable due, or it may merely refer to a detailed progress report, describing the current status of a project.


  Film Deliverables  

In film production, deliverables refer to the range of audio, visual, and paperwork files that producers must furnish to distributors. Audio and visual materials generally include stereo and Dolby 5.1 sound mixes, music and sound effects on separate files, as well as the full movie in a specified format.






Sometimes, distributors that are purchasing independent films for theatrical release will not include a list of deliverables with the first draft of a term sheet; it's thus important for filmmakers to proactively ask for the expected deliverables so that they can be assembled in a timely manner.



Paperwork deliverables include signed and executed licensing agreements for all music, errors, and omissions reports, performance releases for all on-screen talent, a list of the credit block that will appear in all artwork and advertising, as well as location, artwork, and logo legal releases.



Film deliverables also pertain to elements that are ancillary to the movies themselves. These items include the trailer, TV spots, publicity stills photographed on set, and other legal work.


   Types of Deliverables  
  Tangible vs. Intangible Deliverables  

Deliverables can be tangible or intangible. An example of a tangible deliverable would be the construction of a new office to place new workers that don't fit in the old office or a new manufacturing plant that needs to be built to meet increased production levels.



An example of an intangible deliverable would be a training program for employees to teach them how to use new software that will be used at the company.


  Internal Deliverables vs. External Deliverables  

Internal deliverables are those deliverables that are in-house and required to complete a project, deliver a good, or provide a service. Internal deliverables are not seen by the customer and are not considered final.



They are merely deliverables that are part of the steps in a project that will lead to the completion of that project. For example, the construction of a factory to produce more goods to meet increased customer demand would be an internal deliverable. Internal deliverables in project management are commonly known as project deliverables.



External deliverables, on the other hand, are final and provided to the customer. In the example above, the external deliverable would be the final good that comes out of the new factory that the customer will purchase and use. In project management, external deliverables are commonly known as product deliverables.


   Requirements for Deliverables  

At the start of any project, there must be a defined end goal of what is to be achieved. There must then be a clearly defined path to achieve that goal. A project manager can lay out a timeline with deliverables to be met at certain intervals, which are the milestones.



Each project will have different requirements for the deliverables that need to be completed by the milestone dates. The types of projects can be process-based, a phased approach, product-based, or a critical change.



Regardless of the type of project, all will have set stages, which typically include the initiation phase, the planning phase, the execution phase, the monitoring phase, and the closing phase. At each of these phases, there will be a requirement for different deliverables.






At the start of a project, it is important to clearly define project deliverables, which can be in the form of a SWOT analysis, a gap analysis, a project scope statement, a design presentation, or a Gantt chart.



For example, in the planning phase, a deliverable might be a report outlining the entire project, whereas in the monitoring phase the deliverables will be to report on the quality of the new product that was created.



When a project is initiated there will be a contract drafted that will list expectations, timelines, and the types of deliverables to be provided. These contracts can be drafted internally with different departments within an organization for project deliverables and with external clients for product deliverables.



Certain documentation may also take the form of a statement of work (SOW), which is a document created at the onset of a project that outlines all aspects of the project that multiple parties can agree upon to set expectations.




What Are Examples of Deliverables?
Examples of deliverables include an initial project strategy report, the budget report, a progress report, a beta product, a test result report, and any other quantifiable aspects of a project that mark a completion.




What Is the Difference Between an Objective and a Deliverable?
An objective includes all items outside of a project, such as the outcome and the benefits of a project. The deliverables are the tangible results of the project that allow for the objectives to be achieved.




How Do You Describe a Deliverable?
A deliverable is a final deadline or project milestone that can be provided to external or internal customers. It is the end result or one of many end results in a project plan that can be quantifiable.


   The Bottom Line  

Deliverables are the quantifiable goods or services that need to be provided at the various steps of a project as well as at the end of a project. Deliverables help to keep projects on course and allow for an efficient allocation of time and money. They help managers stay on course and are critical to the success of a business.
What Is Delivered at Frontier (DAF)?  

"Delivered at frontier" (DAF) is a term used in international shipping contracts that requires a seller to deliver goods to a border location. The seller is usually responsible for all costs of transporting the goods to the drop-off point for the buyer. The party picking up the goods will usually be importing them and traveling across customs.


   Understanding Delivered at Frontier  

"Delivered at frontier" is a shipping contract term that may be used when shipping goods across borders. Frontier is a designation for a border on a transportation route that is usually highly trafficked and includes a customs freight inspection.



Shipping agreements are an important part of the transportation of all types of goods from a seller to a buyer. International shipping will often be more complex than standard domestic shipping because it involves customs controls. Sellers and buyers create binding shipping agreements, which can include a multitude of terms to ensure that shipping instructions are clear, that the appropriate liabilities are clearly stated to avoid confusion, and that shipping is efficient. As such, shipping agreements include a variety of provisions and are legally binding.



In the case of a shipping contract including a delivered at frontier drop-off, the seller of the goods is usually responsible for all costs pertaining to the goods while they are in their possession. Delivered at frontier will clearly detail an exact location for drop off and the individuals meeting the seller. The party picking up the goods on behalf of the buyer will usually be traveling across border customs and importing the goods.



Frontier border drop-offs are an important location for international commerce. They can be land drop-offs or seaport drop-offs. Land drop-offs can involve truck freight or railways. Seaport drop-offs will involve ship cargo being transported to land or vice versa. Regardless, delivered at frontier shipping terms should clearly describe the location and exchange points.



If a seller is exporting the goods, they will need to pay shipping costs to the drop-off and comply with all laws governing exports which may include licensing and export filings. That is usually the extent of their obligation. From the border, the importer takes possession of the goods and is then responsible for processing the goods through customs which includes an inspection, customs filing, and the initiation of any import costs and/or tariffs which are paid by the importer.


   Incoterms  

The International Chamber of Commerce is the leading organization dedicated to shipping language standardization efforts globally. Founded in 1919, one of the organization’s first efforts was to commission a survey of the commercial trade terms used by merchants around the globe. This eventually led to the compilation and publication of what is known today as the Incoterms rules.






Exporters and importers globally rely on the International Chamber of Commerce’s Incoterms publication for shipping language standardization.



The term delivered at frontier is used less today than in decades past, as developments in global trade policy have made cross border commerce less complicated. It was added to the Incoterms compendium in 1967, following the third revision of the Incoterms rules.



In 2010, the International Chamber of Commerce removed the term delivered at frontier from their glossary. In 2011, Incoterms replaced delivery at frontier with the terms delivered at terminal (DAT) and delivered at place (DAP). These terms have primarily superseded DAF.



The terms are roughly comparable but DAT and DAP are more general and therefore more useful in an age when borders are more porous to commerce. As substitutes, these terms generally have the same requirements. Overall, whether a border drop-off point is called a frontier, terminal, or place it is very important that the shipping instructions include comprehensive details of the drop off exchange and individuals taking possession of the goods.





Key Takeaways

Delivered at frontier is an international shipping term that requires a seller to deliver goods to a border location.Shipping agreements should provide complete details on the exact drop-off location and exchange requirements for the seller.Buyers picking up the goods at the border are responsible for customs processing.
What Is Delivered-at-Place (DAP)?  

Delivered-at-place (DAP) is an international trade term used to describe a deal in which a seller agrees to pay all costs and suffer any potential losses of moving goods sold to a specific location. In DAP agreements, the buyer is responsible for paying import duties and any applicable taxes, including clearance and local taxes, once the shipment has arrived at the specified destination. The phrase was introduced in the International Chamber of Commerce's (ICC) eighth publication of its Incoterms (international commercial terms) in 2010.





Key Takeaways

Delivered-at-place is an international trade term that was introduced in the International Chamber of Commerce's eighth publication of its Incoterms.Under DAP, a seller agrees to pay all costs and suffer any potential losses of moving goods sold to a specific location.In simpler terms, the seller takes on all the risks and costs of delivering goods to an agreed-upon location under DAP rules.The buyer assumes all the risk and responsibility once the shipment arrives at the destination. Incoterms help clear up any confusion with respect to the rights and responsibilities of buyers and sellers of trade contracts.






   How Delivered-at-Place (DAP) Works  

Buyers and sellers often face complications when it comes to trade contracts, whether they are in the same country or not. As such, there are rules and regulations in place that clearly define the roles and responsibilities of each party in a financial contract. These are known as Incoterms—one of which is a delivered-at-place or DAP agreement.



DAP simply means that the seller takes on all the risks and costs of delivering goods to an agreed-upon location. This means they are responsible for anything associated with packaging, documentation, export approval, loading charges, and ultimate delivery. The buyer, in turn, takes over the risk and responsibility for unloading the goods and clearing them for import.



A delivered-at-place or DAP agreement is applicable for any form or combination of forms of transportation. It usually lists the point at which the buyer takes on financial responsibilities, such as “delivered-at-place, Port of Oakland.”



The term was introduced in 2010. At that time, DAP replaced the term delivery duty unpaid (DDU). While DDU may still be used colloquially, DAP is now the official term used in international trade.






The opposite of DAP is delivered duty paid (DDP), which indicates that the seller must cover duties, import clearance, and any taxes.


   DAP Obligations  

The ICC sets out clear obligations for both buyers and sellers for each Incoterm. Below are the key responsibilities of each party.


  Sellers  

The seller is the one who bears most of the responsibilities when it comes to shipping under DAP contracts. This includes:



Documentation: Under DAP rules, the seller must secure any documentation, including tallies of goods in the shipment, commercial invoicing as well as any packaging and marking related to the export of the shipment.
Licensing: The seller must secure any licenses needed to export the goods and take care of any customs issues on their end.
Transport: This category includes any pre-carriage of goods, the delivery to the port, loading onto the container, and main carriage/delivery to the destination.
Costs: The seller must bear the cost of the shipment and must pay for any losses that may result during shipment.
Proof of Delivery: This is provided by the seller to the buyer once the container arrives at the destination.


  Buyers  

While the seller does bear the brunt of the responsibilities under a DAP contract, there are certain things to which the buyer must adhere. These points include:



Payment: The buyer must establish and pay the seller for the goods. They must also advise the seller of the destination.Import: Once the shipment arrives at the destination, the buyer must take care of any issues related to import. This includes any formalities, such as import forms.Unloading: The buyer must make arrangements to unload the cargo from the shipping vessel.Costs: The buyer bears the cost of import duties, taxes, and levies once the shipment arrives at its destination.Transport: Once unloaded, the buyer is responsible for transporting the goods from the destination/port to their next location. This can be a warehouse, storage facility, or retail location.




Obligations

Sellers

Inventory, commercial invoicing, and export paperwork
Export and customs licensing
Pre-carriage, loading, main carriage, and delivery to destination
Cost of shipment and any losses
Proof of delivery to buyer



Buyers

Payment to seller
Import formalities and paperwork
Unloading cargo
Import duties, levies, taxes
Transporting to next location





   Importance of Incoterms  

The ICC was founded in 1919. It established the Incoterms in 1936 as a way to facilitate domestic and international trade. Since then, the chamber released eight updates of these terms in order to remove obsolete terms. Delivered-at-place was one of those simplifications, as the definition applies regardless of the method of transport.



The main driver behind the ICC and the Incoterms is the need for a clear understanding of counterparty responsibilities in international contracts, particularly when it comes to who ships what and to where. With the ICC issuing concrete definitions, contracts can refer to the Incoterms, and the signing parties have a shared understanding of responsibilities.



Even with the clear guidelines for DAP arrangements, there are still situations that result in disputes, such as when the carrier of the goods incurs demurrage—a charge for failing to unload in time—as a result of not receiving the proper clearance from one of the parties.



In these cases, the fault usually lies with whichever party was amiss in providing timely documentation, but determining that can be difficult, as documentation requirements are defined by the national and local authorities controlling ports and vary from country to country. Indeed, international trade law can be complex even with the benefit of defined contract terms.




What Does Delivered-at-Place Mean?
Delivered-at-place is one of the rules set out by the International Chamber of Commerce relating to international trade. Under this rule, the seller is responsible for preparing and transporting goods to the buyer's location and paying for the shipment as well as any losses that may result during transport. The buyer, on the other hand, must bear the cost of taxes, duties, and levies, and must unload the shipment upon arrival.




What Are Incoterms?
Incoterms are a set of rules for international trade. They are set up by the International Chamber of Commerce and outline the responsibilities of buyers and sellers of financial contracts in domestic and international markets. As such, they provide clarity when it comes to financial contracts between parties, especially when they are in different countries. Established in 1936, Incoterms are updated periodically. Examples of Incoterms include delivered-at-place, carriage and insurance paid to, and delivered duty paid.




What's the Difference Between DAP and DDP?
DAP and DDP are two Incoterms used in international trade. Under DAP or delivered-at-place, the buyer and seller share some of the responsibilities of the shipment of goods. The seller loads and ships goods to the buyer. They also bear the cost of transport and must pay for any losses that may result en route. Once the goods arrive at the destination, the buyer assumes control. This means they are responsible for any taxes, duties, or fees, and for unloading the cargo.DDP or delivered duty paid works a little differently. Under this rule, the seller takes on all of the risk, responsibility, and costs associated with transport. This includes the cost of shipping, insurance, duties (import and export), and any other agreed-upon expenses with the buyer.


   The Bottom Line  

International trade can be very complicated and tricky. That's why the International Chamber of Commerce came up with Incoterms, which are a set of rules that are updated periodically. This list provides guidance to buyers and sellers on their rights and responsibilities when it comes to financial contracts.



Delivery-at-place is one such term. Under DAP, the seller bears much of the responsibility when it comes to the preparation and cost of shipping until the goods reach their destination. Upon arrival, the buyer takes over.
What Is Delivered Duty Paid (DDP)?  

Delivered duty paid (DDP) is a delivery agreement whereby the seller assumes all of the responsibility, risk, and costs associated with transporting goods until the buyer receives or transfers them at the destination port.



This agreement includes paying for shipping costs, export and import duties, insurance, and any other expenses incurred during shipping to an agreed-upon location in the buyer's country.



DDP can be contrasted with DDU (deliver duty unpaid).





Key Takeaways

Delivered duty paid (DDP) is a delivery agreement whereby the seller assumes all responsibility for transporting the goods until they reach an agreed-upon destination.It is an incoterm, or a standardized contract for international shipments.Under DDP, the seller must arrange for all transportation and associated costs including export clearance and customs documentation required to reach the destination port.The risks to the seller are broad and include VAT charges, bribery, and storage costs if unexpected delays occur.A DDP benefits a buyer as the seller assumes most of the liability and costs for shipping.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Delivered Duty Paid (DDP)  

Delivered duty paid (DDP) is a shipping agreement that places the maximum responsibility on the seller. In addition to shipping costs, the seller is obligated to arrange for import clearance, tax payment, and import duty. The risk transfers to the buyer once the goods are made available to the buyer at the port of destination. The buyer and seller must agree on all payment details and state the name of the place of destination before finalizing the transaction.



DDP was developed by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) which sought to standardize shipping globally; hence, DDP is most commonly used in international shipping transactions. The benefits of DDP lean in favor of the buyer as they assume less liability and fewer costs in the shipping process, this, therefore, places a great deal of burden on the seller.


   Seller's Responsibilities  

The seller arranges for transportation through a carrier of any kind and is responsible for the cost of that carrier as well as acquiring customs clearance in the buyer's country, including obtaining the appropriate approvals from the authorities in that country. Also, the seller may need to acquire a license for importation. However, the seller is not responsible for unloading the goods.



The seller’s responsibilities include providing the goods, drawing up a sales contract and related documents, export packaging, arranging for export clearance, satisfying all import, export, and customs requirements, and paying for all transportation costs including final delivery to an agreed-upon destination.



The seller must arrange for proof of delivery and pay the cost of all inspections and must alert the buyer once the goods are delivered to the agreed-upon location. In a DDP transaction, if the goods are damaged or lost in transit, the seller is liable for the costs.


   Managing Customs  

It is not always possible for the shipper to clear the goods through customs in foreign countries. Customs requirements for DDP shipments vary by country. In some countries, import clearance is complicated and lengthy, so it is preferable if the buyer, who has intimate knowledge of the process, manages this process.



If a DDP shipment does not clear customs, customs may ignore the fact that the shipment is DDP and delay the shipment. Depending on the customs' decision, this may result in the seller using different, more costly delivery methods.


   Special Considerations  

DDP is used when the cost of supply is relatively stable and easy to predict. The seller is subject to the most risk, so DDP is normally used by advanced suppliers; however, some experts believe that there are reasons U.S. exporters and importers should not use DDP.



U.S exporters, for example, may be subject to value-added tax (VAT) at a rate of up to 20%. Moreover, the buyer is eligible to receive a VAT refund. Exporters are also subject to unexpected storage and demurrage costs that might occur due to delays by customs, agencies, or carriers. Bribery is a risk that could bring severe consequences both with the U.S government and a foreign country.



For U.S. importers, because the seller and its forwarder are controlling the transportation, the importer has limited supply chain information. Also, a seller may pad their prices to cover the cost of liability for the DDP shipment or markup freight bills.



If DDP is handled poorly, inbound shipments are likely to be examined by customs, which causes delays. Late shipments may also occur because a seller may use cheaper, less reliable transportation services to reduce their costs.






Since DDP is an important aspect of customer relationship management (CRM) for delivery companies, it's important for businesses to invest in the best CRM software currently available.




What Does DDP Mean for an Exporter?
DDP indicates that the seller (exporter) assumes all the risk and transportation costs. The seller must also clear the goods for export at the shipping port and import at the destination. Moreover, the seller must pay export and import duties for goods shipped under DDP.




What Is the Difference Between DDP and DDU?
In the world of shipping, delivered duty unpaid (DDU) simply means that it's the customer's responsibility to pay for any of the destination country's customs charges, duties, or taxes. These must all be paid in order for customs to release the shipment after it arrives.On the other hand, delivered duty paid (DDP) means it's the shipper's responsibility to pay any of the customs charges, duties, and/or taxes required to send the product to the destination country.




What Are the Various Incoterms?
International commercial terms—Incoterms for short—clarify the rules and terms buyers and sellers use in international and domestic trade contracts. The Incoterms include: Ex Works (EXW);, Free Carrier (FCA); Carriage Paid To (CPT); Carriage and Insurance Paid To (CIP); Delivered at Place (DAP); Delivered at Place Unloaded (DPU); Delivery at Frontier (DAF); Delivery ex-Ship (DEX); Delivered Duty Paid (DDP); Deliver Duty Unpaid (DDU); Free Alongside Ship (FAS); Free on Board (FOB); Cost and Freight (CFR); and Cost, Insurance, and Freight (CIF).
What Is Delivered Duty Unpaid (DDU)?  

Delivered Duty Unpaid (DDU) is an old international trade term indicating that the seller is responsible for the safe delivery of goods to a named destination, paying all transportation expenses, and assuming all risks during transport.



Once the goods arrive at the agreed-upon location, the buyer becomes responsible for paying import duties, as well as further transport costs. However, Delivered Duty Paid (DDP) indicates that the seller must cover duties, import clearance, and any taxes.





Key Takeaways

Delivered Duty Unpaid (DDU) is an international trade term meaning the seller is responsible for ensuring goods arrive safely to a destination; the buyer is responsible for import duties.By contrast, Delivered Duty Paid (DDP) indicates that the seller must cover duties, import clearance, and any taxes.DDU is still commonly used in transportation contracts, even though the International Chamber of Commerce has officially replaced it with the term Delivered-at-Place (DAP).The primary benefit of delivered duty unpaid (DDU) shipping is that it gives the buyer more control over the shipping procedures.From the seller's perspective, DDU shipping provides the ability to take more of a "hands-off" approach when it comes to the destination country's shipping rules. The biggest problem for buyers in DDU shipping is the possibility of surprise duties and/or tax charges when their shipment finally arrives.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Delivered Duty Unpaid (DDU)  

The International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) is an organization that was originally formed after World War I with the goal of fostering prosperity in Europe by setting standards for international trade. It was this group that, in 1936, published a set of standardized terms for different types of shipping agreements, known as Incoterms.



Incoterms are contract specifications outlining who bears the costs and risks of international transactions; they are subject to change at the discretion of the ICC. Because of the legal and logistical intricacies of international shipping, the ICC seeks to simplify matters for businesses by standardizing its terms.



Notably, 2020 Incoterms revision is available for purchase direct from the site.



Delivered Duty Unpaid (DDU) was actually not included in the most recent (2010) edition of the International Chamber of Commerce's Incoterms; the current official term that best describes the function of DDU is Delivered-at-Place (DAP).



However, DDU is still commonly used in international trade parlance. On paper, the term is followed by the location of delivery (e.g., "DDU: Port of Los Angeles"). 





DPU Shipping

Delivered at Place Unloaded (DPU) is the third term used to differentiate between shipping methods. Under DPU, the seller is also responsible for unloading the goods at the place of destination.


   Responsibilities Under Delivered Duty Unpaid (DDU)  

According to DDU arrangements, the seller secures licenses and takes care of other formalities involved in exporting a good; it is also responsible for all licenses and costs incurred in transit countries, as well as for providing an invoice at its own cost.



The seller assumes all risk until the goods are delivered to the specified location, but it has no obligation to obtain insurance on the goods. 



The buyer is responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses for importing the goods and paying all relevant taxes, duties, and inspection costs. All risks involved in this process are borne by the buyer. Once the goods are placed at the disposal of the buyer, all further transportation costs and risks fall on the buyer.









Seller Obligations vs. Seller Obligations Under DDU




Seller Obligations
Buyer Obligations


Delivers the goods, as well as the documentation that proves the buyer can take legal possession of them.
Pays for the delivered goods.


Responsible for all documentation required to export the goods.
Responsible for all documentation required for import clearance once the shipment has arrived.


Once the goods are delivered to the destination country, all risk is transferred to the buyer.
Once the goods are delivered alongside the ship, the buyer is responsible for any loss or damage from that point on.


Seller pays for the delivery, loading, labor, and transportation costs up to the destination country.
Buyer pays for the import duties and taxes, customs charges, unloading costs, and delivery costs to their own warehouses.





   Delivered Duty Unpaid (DDU) vs. Delivered Duty Paid (DDP)  

In the world of shipping, delivered duty unpaid (DDU) simply means that it's the customer's responsibility to pay for any of the destination country's customs charges, duties, or taxes. These must all be paid in order for customs to release the shipment after it arrives.



On the other hand, delivered duty paid (DDP) means it's the shipper's responsibility to pay any of the customs charges, duties, and/or taxes required to send the product to the destination country.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Delivered Duty Unpaid (DDU)  

The primary benefit of delivered duty unpaid (DDU) shipping is that it gives the buyer more control over the shipping procedures. For global buyers looking to keep a consistent flow of inventory, having a higher degree of control over the process can be paramount.



For instance, controlling costs and tracking shipments are typically easier to do under DDU shipping than in DDP shipping. Buyers are naturally more knowledgeable of their own country's shipping customs.



From the seller's perspective, DDU shipping provides the ability to take more of a "hands-off" approach when it comes to the destination country's shipping rules. The seller is simply responsible for getting the cargo to its destination, where the buyer can handle all of the legal complications.



Of course, there are also disadvantages to DDU shipping. The biggest problem for buyers is the possibility of surprise duties or tax charges when their shipment finally arrives. Obviously, that's a big negative for buyers. But it's not ideal for shippers, either, because disgruntled customers may refuse to pay for their parcel to be delivered.


   DDU Shipping FAQs  
  Is DDU Shipping or DDP Shipping Better?  

As we've discussed, there are pros and cons to each method of shipping. So it ultimately boils down to what the buyer or receiver wants out of their shipping experience.



If the receiver prioritizes control of the shipping process and doesn't mind the legal complications or surprise charges that come with more control, DDU is a good option. But if a buyer wants a streamlined process without the possibility of any surprise charges, DDP is probably the way to go.


  Who Is Responsible for DDU Shipments?  

Under DDU shipping rules, the seller is fully responsible for the delivery of the goods to the destination country. The seller assumes all risks involved up to unloading.



The buyer bears the risk and cost of the unloading.


  Is DAP the Same as DDU?  

Delivery-at-place (DAP) was introduced in 2010 to basically replace the term delivery duty unpaid (DDU), so they're essentially the same.
What Is Delivered Ex-Ship (DES)?  

Delivered ex-ship (DES) was a trade term that required a seller to deliver goods to a buyer at an agreed port of arrival. The seller assumed the full cost and risk involved in getting the goods to that point. After arrival, the seller was considered to have met its obligation and the buyer assumed all ensuing costs and risks.



This term applied to both inland and sea shipping and often in charter shipping. It expired effective 2011.





Key Takeaways

Delivered ex-ship (DES) was an Incoterm (an international commercial term) that applied to both inland and sea shipping and often in charter shipping.DES stipulated that a seller had to deliver goods to a buyer at a certain port of arrival, as specified in an international shipping contract. After delivery, all obligations shifted to the buyer.Discontinued in 2011, DES was replaced by two new Incoterms, delivered at terminal (DAT) and delivered at place (DAP).


   Understanding Delivered Ex-Ship (DES)  

Contracts involving international transportation often contain abbreviated trade terms that describe details such as the time and place of delivery, payment, at what point the risk of loss shifts from the seller to the buyer, and who pays for the costs of freight and insurance. DES was just one type of such an international trade contract.



DES was a legal term, and the exact definition differed somewhat by country. Typically, though, the seller remained responsible for products until delivery. It bore the costs and risks that come with bringing goods to port. The seller had total responsibility for shipping, and it must pay the shipping company and purchase insurance for the goods.



The seller's obligation ended when it delivered the merchandise to the agreed-upon port, aboard the ship, and not yet cleared for import. Buyers were responsible for all costs to receive and unload the goods, and to clear them through customs.


   International Commercial Terms (Incoterms)  

The most commonly known trade terms are known as "incoterms," short for "international commercial terms." The International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) publishes them, aiming to foster global trade and commerce. ICC promotes and protects open markets for goods and services. 



Incoterms are often identical in form to domestic terms such as the American Uniform Commercial Code (UCC), but they have different meanings. Parties to a contract must expressly indicate the governing law of their terms as a result.






Delivered ex-quay is another now-discontinued Incoterm. It specified that the seller must ship the goods to the wharf or quay at the destination port (DES didn't cover wharves). Delivered ex-quay could note a duty as either paid or unpaid. The seller was obligated to cover costs, like duties, if it paid, and was responsible for providing the merchandise. If unpaid, those obligations and responsibilities shift to the buyer.


   Replacements for Delivered Ex-Ship  

Delivered ex-ship (DES) was replaced in 2011 by two new terms: delivered at terminal (DAT) and delivered at place (DAP).



DAP entails that the seller is responsible only for the packaging costs of the goods, and the arrangement of the cargo for ensuring that the goods arrive safely to the point of delivery or final destination on time. DAT stipulates that the seller assumes all transport costs until after the goods are delivered and unloaded at the specific delivery terminal. In addition, the seller also assumes responsibility for export goods clearance.



Delivered ex-ship also differed from Ex Works (EXW), another international trade term. In this sort of agreement, the seller makes a product available at a designated location, and the buyer of the product must cover the transport costs. The seller must make the goods available for pickup at its place of business in Ex Works. All costs and risks of transportation are taken on by the buyer from there.


   Examples of Delivered Ex-Ship  

Seller X ships contracted goods to a pier and port in Kennebunkport, Maine. Midway there, the ship encounters a storm and sinks. Seller X absorbs the loss because the shipment has not yet arrived in port.



Alternatively, Seller X's shipment makes it safely to Kennebunkport. The storm hits while the ship is docked after the point when Buyer Y has contractually taken possession of the products. The ship sinks in port. Buyer Y absorbs the loss because it has accepted delivery, even though the goods have not yet left the ship.
What Is Delivery Versus Payment (DVP)?  

Delivery versus payment (DVP) is a securities industry settlement method that guarantees the transfer of securities only happens after payment has been made. DVP stipulates that the buyer's cash payment for securities must be made prior to or at the same time as the delivery of the security.



Delivery versus payment is the settlement process from the buyer's perspective; from the seller's perspective, this settlement system is called receive versus payment (RVP). DVP/RVP requirements emerged in the aftermath of institutions being banned from paying money for securities before the securities were held in negotiable form. DVP is also known as delivery against payment (DAP), delivery against cash (DAC), and cash on delivery.





Key Takeaways

Delivery versus payment is a securities settlement process that requires that payment is made either before or at the same time as the delivery of the securities.The process is meant to reduce the risk that securities could be delivered without payment or that payments could be made without the delivery of securities.The delivery versus payment system became a widespread industry practice in the aftermath of the October 1987 market crash.


   Understanding Delivery Versus Payment (DVP)  

The delivery versus payment settlement system ensures that delivery will occur only if payment occurs. The system acts as a link between a funds transfer system and a securities transfer system. From an operational perspective, DVP is a sale transaction of negotiable securities (in exchange for cash payment) that can be instructed to a settlement agent using SWIFT Message Type MT 543 (in the ISO15022 standard).



The use of such standard message types is meant to reduce risk in the settlement of a financial transaction and allow for automatic processing. Ideally, the title to an asset and payment are exchanged simultaneously. This may be possible in many cases such as in a central depository system such as the United States Depository Trust Corporation.


   How Delivery Versus Payment Works  

A significant source of credit risk in securities settlement is the principal risk associated with the settlement date. The idea behind the RVP/DVP system is that part of that risk can be removed if the settlement procedure requires that delivery occurs only if payment occurs (in other words, that securities are not delivered prior to the exchange of payment for the securities). The system helps to ensure that payments accompany deliveries, thereby reducing principal risk, limiting the chance that deliveries or payments would be withheld during periods of stress in the financial markets and reducing liquidity risk.



By law, institutions are required to demand assets of equal value in exchange for the delivery of securities. The delivery of the securities is typically made to the bank of the buying customer, while the payment is made simultaneously by bank wire transfer, check, or direct credit to an account.






Delivery versus payment (DVP) is a settlement method that requires that securities are delivered to a particular recipient only after payment is made.


   Special Considerations  

Following the October 1987 worldwide drop in equity prices, the central banks in the Group of Ten worked to strengthen settlement procedures and eliminate the risk that a security delivery could be made without payment, or that a payment could be made without delivery (known as principal risk). The DVP procedure reduces or eliminates the counterparties' exposure to this principal risk.
What Is the Delphi Method?  

The Delphi method is a forecasting process and structured communication framework based on the results of multiple rounds of questionnaires sent to a panel of experts. After each round of questionnaires, the experts are presented with an aggregated summary of the last round, allowing each expert to adjust their answers according to the group response. This process combines the benefits of expert analysis with elements of the wisdom of crowds.





Key Takeaways

The Delphi method is a process used to arrive at a group opinion or decision by surveying a panel of experts.Experts respond to several rounds of questionnaires, and the responses are aggregated and shared with the group after each round.The experts can adjust their answers each round, based on how they interpret the “group response” provided to them.The ultimate result is meant to be a true consensus of what the group thinks.


   Understanding the Delphi Method  

Several rounds of questionnaires are sent out to the group of experts, and the anonymous responses are aggregated and shared with the group after each round. The experts are allowed to adjust their answers in subsequent rounds, based on how they interpret the “group response” that has been provided to them. Since multiple rounds of questions are asked and the panel is told what the group thinks as a whole, the Delphi method seeks to reach the correct response through consensus.



The Delphi method was originally conceived in the 1950s by Olaf Helmer and Norman Dalkey of Rand Corp. The name refers to the Oracle of Delphi, a priestess at a temple of Apollo in ancient Greece known for her prophecies. The Delphi method allows experts to work toward a mutual agreement by conducting a circulating series of questionnaires and releasing related feedback to further the discussion with each subsequent round. The experts’ responses shift as rounds are completed based on the information brought forth by other experts participating in the analysis.






The Delphi method is a process of arriving at group consensus by providing experts with rounds of questionnaires, as well as the group response before each subsequent round.


   Delphi Method Process  

First, the group facilitator selects a group of experts based on the topic being examined. Once all participants are confirmed, each member of the group is sent a questionnaire with instructions to comment on each topic based on their personal opinion, experience, or previous research.



The questionnaires are returned to the facilitator, who groups the comments and prepares copies of the information. A copy of the compiled comments is sent to each participant, along with the opportunity to comment further. At the end of each comment session, all questionnaires are returned to the facilitator, who decides if another round is necessary or if the results are ready for publishing.



The questionnaire rounds can be repeated as many times as necessary to achieve a general sense of consensus.


   Advantages of the Delphi Method  

The Delphi method seeks to aggregate opinions from a diverse set of experts, and it can be done without having to bring everyone together for a physical meeting. Since the responses of the participants are anonymous, individual panelists don’t have to worry about repercussions for their opinions. The anonymity of the participants also helps prevent the “halo effect,” which sees higher priority given to the views of more powerful or higher-ranking members of the group.



By conducting Delphi studies, consensus can be reached over time as opinions are swayed, making the method very effective. In contrast with many other types of interviews and focus groups, Delphi studies allow participants to rethink and refine their opinions based on the input of others, contributing to a more reflective and thoughtful process.


   Disadvantages of the Delphi Method  

Although it provides the benefits of anonymity and the possibility for reevaluation and reflection, the Delphi method does not result in the same sort of interactions as a live discussion. A live discussion can sometimes produce a better example of consensus, as ideas and perceptions are introduced, broken down, and reassessed. Response times with the Delphi method can be long, which slows the rate of discussion. It is also possible that the information received back from the experts will provide no innate value.



The deliberate and drawn-out nature of the Delphi method also presents some challenges. Since the method often requires multiple rounds of questionnaires, there is a chance that some participants may drop out from the study before it has been completed. In addition, while there are benefits to giving participants the opportunity to reassess their views, there is a chance that they will adjust their responses so that they are more closely aligned with the views of the majority, reducing the diversity of opinions represented and diminishing the validity of the results.




What is the Delphi method used for?
The Delphi method is used to establish a consensus opinion about an issue or set of issues by seeking mutual agreement from a group of experts in the relevant field. The Delphi method has been used to conduct research in numerous areas, from the defense industry to healthcare.




How is the Delphi method conducted?
The group facilitator selects a group of experts based on the topic being examined and sends them a questionnaire with instructions to comment on each topic based on their personal opinion, experience, or previous research. The facilitator groups the comments from the returned questionnaires and sends copies to each participant, along with the opportunity to comment further. At the end of this session, the questionnaires are returned to the facilitator, who decides if another round is necessary or if the results are ready for publishing. This process can be repeated multiple times until a general sense of consensus is reached.




How is "consensus" defined when using the Delphi method?
Although the Delphi method seeks to pinpoint an area of mutual agreement among the pool of experts, it is unlikely that the participants will be in complete agreement on all issues—even after several rounds of questionnaires and opportunities for reassessment. Researchers applying the Delphi method may have different thresholds for exactly what constitutes a consensus, and some critics of the method point to the subjective nature of this determination as a shortcoming.


   The Bottom Line  

The Delphi method uses multiple rounds of questionnaires sent to a panel of experts to work toward a mutual agreement or consensus opinion. The participants modify their responses based on the information brought forth by other experts participating in the analysis. The Delphi method benefits from the anonymity of the participants and the opportunities it provides for reassessment, but it can also be time consuming and in some cases may be less effective than a live discussion or focus group.
What Is Delta?  

Delta is a risk metric that estimates the change in the price of a derivative, such as an options contract, given a $1 change in its underlying security. It is represented by the symbol Δ. The delta also tells options traders the hedging ratio to become delta neutral. A third interpretation of an option's delta is the probability that it will finish in the money. Delta values can be positive or negative depending on the type of option.





Key Takeaways

Delta expresses the amount of price change a derivative will see based on the price of the underlying security (e.g., stock).Delta can be positive or negative, being between 0 and 1 for a call option and negative 1 to 0 for a put option.Delta spread is an options trading strategy in which the trader initially establishes a delta neutral position by simultaneously buying and selling options in proportion to the neutral ratio.The most common tool for implementing a delta spread strategy is a calendar spread, which involves constructing a delta neutral position using options with different expiration dates.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Delta  

Delta is an important variable related to the directional risk of an option and is produced by pricing models used by options traders. As noted above, it is represented by the symbol Δ. Professional option sellers determine how to price their options based on sophisticated models that often resemble the Black-Scholes model.



Delta is a key variable within these models to help option buyers and sellers alike because it can help investors and traders determine how option prices are likely to change as the underlying security varies in price.



The calculation of the delta is done in real-time by computer algorithms that continuously publish delta values to broker clientele. The delta value of an option is often used by traders and investors to inform their choices for buying or selling options.



Delta values can be either positive or negative according to the type of option. The behavior of call and put option delta is highly predictable and is very useful to portfolio managers, traders, hedge fund managers, and individual investors. This is explored a little further down.






An option with a delta of 0.50 is at-the-money.






   Delta vs. Delta Spread  

Delta spreading is an options trading strategy in which the trader initially establishes a delta-neutral position by simultaneously buying and selling options in proportion to the neutral ratio (that is, the positive and negative deltas offset each other so that the overall delta of the assets in question totals zero).



Using a delta spread, a trader usually expects to make a small profit if the underlying security does not change widely in price. However, larger gains or losses are possible if the stock moves significantly in either direction.



The most common tool for implementing a delta spread strategy is an option trade known as a calendar spread. The calendar spread involves constructing a delta-neutral position using options with different expiration dates.



For instance, a trader sells near-month call options and buys call options at the same time with a later expiration in proportion to their neutral ratio. Since the position is delta-neutral, the trader should not experience gains or losses from small price moves in the underlying security. The trader expects the price to remain unchanged, and as the near-month calls lose time value and expire, the trader can sell the call options with longer expiration dates and net a profit.






The deeper in-the-money the call option, the closer the delta will be to 1, and the more the option will behave like the underlying asset.


   Call and Put Option Deltas  
  Call Option Delta  

Call option delta behavior depends on whether the option is:



In the money, which means it is currently profitable. In-the-money call options get closer to 1 as their expiration approaches. If a call option has a delta value of +0.65, this means that if the underlying stock increases in price by $1 per share, the option on it will rise by $0.65 per share, all else being equal.
At the money, which means its strike price currently equals the underlying stock's price. At-the-money call options typically have a delta of 0.5.
Out of the money, which means it's not currently profitable. This type of call option approaches 0 as expiration nears.



The delta for a call option always ranges from 0 to 1 because as the underlying asset increases in price, call options increase in price. Put option deltas always range from -1 to 0 because as the underlying security increases, the value of put options decrease.


  Put Option Delta  

Put option delta behaviors also depend on whether the option is:



In-the-money, which gets closer to -1 as expiration approachesAt-the-money, which typically has a delta of -0.5Out-of-the-money, which approaches 0 as expiration approaches



The deeper in the money the put option, the closer the delta will be to -1. if a put option has a delta of -0.33, and the price of the underlying asset increases by $1, the price of the put option will decrease by $0.33. Technically, the value of the option's delta is the first derivative of the value of the option with respect to the underlying security's price. Delta is often used in hedging strategies and is also referred to as a hedge ratio.






An option's gamma is its change in delta given a $1 change in the underlying security.


   Examples of Delta  

Let's assume there is a publicly-traded company called BigCorp. Shares of its stock are bought and sold on a stock exchange, and there are put options and call options traded for those shares. 



The delta for the call option on BigCorp shares is 0.35. That means that a $1 change in the price of BigCorp stock generates a $0.35 change in the price of BigCorp call options. Thus, if BigCorp’s shares trade at $20 and the call option trades at $2, a change in the price of BigCorp’s shares to $21 means the call option will increase to a price of $2.35.



Put options work in the opposite way. That is If the put option on BigCorp shares has a delta of -$0.65, then a $1 increase in BigCorp's share price generates a $.65 decrease in the price of BigCorp's put options. So if BigCorp’s shares trade at $20 and the put option trades at $2, then BigCorp’s shares increase to $21, and the put option will decrease to a price of $1.35.




How Do Options Traders Use Delta?
Delta is used by options traders in several ways. First, it tells them their directional risk, in terms of how much an option's price will change as the underlying price changes. It can also be used as a hedge ratio to become delta-neutral. For instance, if an options trader buys 100 XYZ calls, each with a +0.40 delta. they would sell 4,000 shares of stock to have a net delta of zero (equity options contracts represent 100 shares of stock each). If they instead bought 100 puts with a -0.30 delta, they would buy 3,000 shares.




What Is a Portfolio Delta?
Traders that have several options positions can benefit from looking at the overall delta of their portfolio (or book). If you are long 1 call with a +0.10 delta and 2 calls with a +0.30 delta, your total book's delta would be +0.70. If you then bought a -0.70 delta put, the position would become delta-neutral.




What Is the Delta of a Share of Stock?
Being long a share of stock is always +1.0 delta, and being short stock a delta of -1.0.


   The Bottom Line  

Derivatives are financial contracts whose value depends on an underlying security or benchmark. These. contracts can be used to trade any type of security, including stocks, commodities, and currencies. But they do come with certain risks. Traders who deal with derivatives should understand these risks and how to measure them. For instance, knowing how to interpret delta can mean the difference between realizing gains and losses. Remember, delta is a risk metric that indicates changes in a derivative's price based on the price of the underlying security.
What Is Delta Hedging?  

Delta hedging is an options trading strategy that aims to reduce, or hedge, the directional risk associated with price movements in the underlying asset. The approach uses options to offset the risk to either a single other option holding or an entire portfolio of holdings. The investor tries to reach a delta-neutral state and not have a directional bias on the hedge.





Key Takeaways

Delta hedging is an options strategy that seeks to be directionally neutral by establishing offsetting long and short positions in the same underlying.By reducing directional risk, delta hedging can isolate volatility changes for an options trader.An options position could also be delta-hedged using shares of the underlying stock.Delta hedging benefits traders when they anticipate a strong move in the underlying stock but does require traders to constantly watch and adjust the positions involved. Options position could be hedged with options that have a delta that is opposite to that of the current options holding to maintain a delta-neutral position. 












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   How Delta Hedging Works  

The most basic type of delta hedging involves an investor who buys or sells options and then offsets the delta risk by buying or selling an equivalent amount of stock or exchange-traded fund (ETF) shares. Investors may want to offset their risk of moving in the option or the underlying stock by using delta hedging strategies.



More advanced options strategies seek to trade volatility through the use of delta-neutral trading strategies. Since delta hedging attempts to neutralize or reduce the extent of the move in an option's price relative to the asset's price, it requires a constant rebalancing of the hedge. Delta hedging is a complex strategy mainly used by institutional traders and investment banks.



The delta represents the change in the value of an option in relation to the movement in the market price of the underlying asset. Hedges are investments—usually options—taken to offset any exposure to the risk of an asset.






Delta is a ratio between the change in the price of an options contract and the corresponding movement of the underlying asset's value. So if a stock option for XYZ shares has a delta of 0.45, if the underlying stock increases in market price by $1 per share, the option value on it will rise by $0.45 per share, all else being equivalent.



Let's assume the options discussed have equities as their underlying security. Traders want to know an option's delta since it can tell them how much the value of the option or the premium will rise or fall with a move in the stock's price. The theoretical change in premium for each basis point or $1 change in the price of the underlying is the delta, while the relationship between the two movements is the hedge ratio.



The delta of a call option ranges between zero and one, while the delta of a put option ranges between negative one and zero. The price of a put option with a delta of -0.50 is expected to rise by 50 cents if the underlying asset falls by $1. The opposite is true, as well. For example, the price of a call option with a hedge ratio of 0.40 will rise 40% of the stock-price move if the price of the underlying stock increases by $1.



Delta is dependent on if it is:



In-the-money or currently profitable
At-the-money at the same price as the strike
Out-of-the-money not currently profitable



A put option with a delta of -0.50 is considered at-the-money meaning the strike price of the option is equal to the underlying stock's price. Conversely, a call option with a 0.50 delta has a strike that's equal to the stock's price.


   Reaching Delta-Neutral  

An options position could be hedged with options exhibiting a delta that is opposite to that of the current options holding to maintain a delta-neutral position. A delta-neutral position is one in which the overall delta is zero, which minimizes the options' price movements in relation to the underlying asset.



For example, assume an investor holds one call option with a delta of 0.50, which indicates the option is at-the-money and wishes to maintain a delta neutral position. The investor could purchase an at-the-money put option with a delta of -0.50 to offset the positive delta, which would make the position have a delta of zero.






Delta-gamma hedging is closely related to delta hedging. It is an options strategy that combines both delta and gamma hedges to mitigate the risk of changes in the underlying asset and in the delta itself.


   A Brief Primer on Options  

The value of an option is measured by the amount of its premium, which is the fee paid for buying the contract. By holding the option, the investor or trader can exercise their rights to buy or sell 100 shares of the underlying asset but are not required to perform this action if it is not profitable to them. The price they will buy or sell at is known as the strike price and is set (along with the expiration date) at the time of purchase. Each contract equals 100 shares of the underlying stock or asset.



Holders of American-style options may exercise their rights at any time up to and including the expiration date. European-style options allow the holder to exercise only on the expiration date. Also, depending on the value of the option, the holder may decide to sell their contract to another investor before expiration.



For example, if a call option has a strike price of $30 and the underlying stock is trading at $40 at expiry, the option holder can convert 100 shares at the lesser strike price of $30. If they choose, they may then turn around and sell them on the open market for $40 for a profit. The profit would be $10 less the premium for the call option and any fees from the broker for placing the trades.



Put options are a bit more confusing but work in much the same way as the call option. Here, the holder expects the value of the underlying asset to deteriorate before the expiration. They may either hold the asset in their portfolio or borrow the shares from a broker.


   Delta Hedging With Equities  

An options position could also be delta-hedged using shares of the underlying stock. One share of the underlying stock has a delta of one as the stock's value changes by $1. For example, assume an investor is long one call option on a stock with a delta of 0.75—or 75 since options have a multiplier of 100.



In this case, the investor could delta hedge the call option by shorting 75 shares of the underlying stocks. In shorting, the investor borrows shares, sells those shares at the market to other investors, and later buys shares to return to the lender—at a hopefully lower price.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Delta Hedging  
  Advantages  

Delta hedging can benefit traders when they anticipate a strong move in the underlying stock but run the risk of being over-hedged if the stock doesn't move as expected. If over-hedged positions have to unwind, the trading costs increase.


  Disadvantages  

One of the primary drawbacks of delta hedging is the necessity of constantly watching and adjusting the positions involved. Depending on the movement of the stock, the trader has to frequently buy and sell securities to avoid being under or over-hedged.



The number of transactions involved in delta hedging can become expensive since trading fees are incurred as adjustments are made to the position. It can be particularly expensive when the hedging is done with options as these can lose time value, sometimes trading lower than the underlying stock has increased.



Time value is a measure of how much time is left before an option's expiration whereby a trader can earn a profit. As time goes by and the expiration date draws near, the option loses time value since there's less time remaining to make a profit. As a result, an option's time value impacts the premium cost for that option since options with a lot of time value typically have higher premiums than those with little time value. As time goes by, the value of the option changes, which can result in the need for increased delta hedging to maintain a delta-neutral strategy.





Pros

Allows traders to hedge the risk of adverse price changes in a portfolio
Protects profits from an option or stock position in the short-term without unwinding the long-term holding



Cons

Numerous transactions might be needed to constantly adjust the delta hedge leading to costly fees
Over hedging may occur if the delta is offset by too much or the markets change unexpectedly





   Example of Delta Hedging  

Let's assume a trader wants to maintain a delta-neutral position for investment in the stock of General Electric (GE). The investor owns or is long one put option on GE. One option equals 100 shares of GE's stock.



The stock declines considerably, and the trader has a profit on the put option. However, recent events pushed the stock's price higher. However, the trader sees this rise as a short-term event and expects the stock to fall again. As a result, a delta hedge is put in place to help protect the gains in the put option.



GE's put option has a delta of -0.75, which is usually referred to as -75. The investor establishes a delta-neutral position by purchasing 75 shares of the underlying stock. At $10 per share, the investor buys 75 shares of GE at the cost of $750 in total. Once the stock's recent rise has ended or events have changed in favor of the trader's put option position, the trader can remove the delta hedge.




How Does Delta Hedging Work?
Delta hedging is a trading strategy that involves options. Traders use it to hedge the directional risk associated with changes in the price of the underlying asset by using options. This is usually done by buying or selling options and offsetting the risk by buying or selling an equal amount of stock or ETF shares. The aim is to reach a delta-neutral state without a directional bias on the hedge.




Can You Use Delta to Determine How to Hedge Options?
Yes, you can use delta to hedge options. In order to do this, you must figure out whether you should buy or sell the underlying asset. You can determine the quantity of the delta hedge by multiplying the total value of the delta by the number of options contracts involved. Take this figure and multiply that by 100 to get the final result.




What Is Delta-Gamma Hedging?
Delta-gamma hedging is an options strategy. It is closely related to delta hedging. In delta-gamma hedging, delta and gamma hedges are combined to cut down on the risk associated with changes in the underlying asset. It also aims to reduce the risk in the delta itself. Remember that delta estimates the change in the price of a derivative while gamma describes the rate of change in an option's delta per one-point move in the price of the underlying asset.


   The Bottom Line  

Options traders have a range of strategies to help mitigate the risks involved with these investments. One of these is delta hedging. When a trader uses this strategy, their goal is to reduce the directional risk associated with price movements of the underlying asset. This is accomplished by buying or selling options and offsetting the risk by buying or selling the same amount of shares of a company's stock or ETF. Although it can be an advantageous strategy for those who know how to use it, traders should be aware that it does require constant monitoring and can be fairly expensive.
What Is Delta Neutral?  

Delta neutral is a portfolio strategy utilizing multiple positions with balancing positive and negative deltas so that the overall delta of the assets in question totals zero.



A delta-neutral portfolio evens out the response to market movements for a certain range to bring the net change of the position to zero. Delta measures how much an option's price changes when the underlying security's price changes.



As the values of the underlying assets change, the position of the Greeks will shift between being positive, negative, and neutral. Investors who want to maintain delta neutrality must adjust their portfolio holdings accordingly. Options traders use delta-neutral strategies to profit either from implied volatility or from time decay of the options. Delta-neutral strategies are also used for hedging purposes.





Key Takeaways

Delta neutral is a portfolio strategy that utilizes multiple positions with balancing positive and negative deltas so the overall delta of the assets totals zero.A delta-neutral portfolio evens out the response to market movements for a certain range to bring the net change of the position to zero.Options traders use delta-neutral strategies to profit from either implied volatility or time decay of the options. Delta-neutral strategies are also employed for hedging purposes.


   Understanding Delta Neutral  
  Delta Neutral Basic Mechanics  

Long put options always have a delta ranging from -1 to 0, while long calls always have a delta ranging from 0 to 1. The underlying asset, typically a stock position, always has a delta of 1 if the position is a long position and -1 if the position is a short position. Given the underlying asset position, a trader or investor can use a combination of long and short calls and puts to make a portfolio's effective delta 0.



If an option has a delta of one and the underlying stock position increases by $1, the option's price will also increase by $1. This behavior is seen with deep in-the-money call options. Likewise, if an option has a delta of zero and the stock increases by $1, the option's price won't increase at all (a behavior seen with deep out-of-the-money call options). If an option has a delta of 0.5, its price will increase $0.50 for every $1 increase in the underlying stock.


  An Example of Delta-Neutral Hedging  

Assume you have a stock position that you believe will increase in price in the long term. You are worried, however, that prices could decline in the short term, so you decide to set up a delta neutral position.



Assume that you own 200 shares of Company X, which is trading at $100 per share. Since the underlying stock's delta is 1, your current position has a delta of positive 200 (the delta multiplied by the number of shares).



To obtain a delta-neutral position, you need to enter into a position that has a total delta of -200. Assume then you find at-the-money put options on Company X that are trading with a delta of -0.5.



You could purchase 4 of these put options, which would have a total delta of (400 x -0.5), or -200. With this combined position of 200 Company X shares and 4 long at-the-money put options on Company X, your overall position is delta neutral.
What Is Demand?  

Demand is an economic concept that relates to a consumer's desire to purchase goods and services and willingness to pay a specific price for them. An increase in the price of a good or service tends to decrease the quantity demanded. Likewise, a decrease in the price of a good or service will increase the quantity demanded.



Demand is a concept that consumers and businesses are very familiar with because it makes sense and occurs naturally in the course of practically any day. For example, shoppers with an eye on products that they want will buy more when the products' prices are low. When something happens to raise the prices, such as a change of season, shoppers buy fewer or perhaps none at all.



Generally speaking, there is market demand and aggregate demand. Market demand is the total quantity demanded by all consumers in a market for a given good. Aggregate demand is the total demand for all goods and services in an economy. Multiple stocking strategies are often required to handle demand.





Key Takeaways

The law of demand concerns consumers' changing desire to purchase goods and services at given prices.Demand can refer to either market demand for a specific good or aggregate demand for the total of all goods in an economy.Demand and supply determine the actual prices of goods and the volume that changes hands in a market.Businesses study demand to price products to meet demand and generate profits.The demand curve demonstrates visually how the decreasing price for a product increases the quantity purchased.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Demand  

Businesses can spend a considerable amount of money to determine the amount of demand the public has for their products and services. How many of their goods will they actually be able to sell at any given price?



Incorrect estimations can result in lost sales from willing buyers if demand is underestimated or losses from leftover inventory if demand is overestimated. Demand helps fuel profits and the economy. That's why it's an important concept.



Demand is closely related to the concept of supply. While consumers try to pay the lowest prices they can for goods and services, suppliers try to maximize profits.



If suppliers charge too much for a product, the quantity demanded drops and suppliers may not sell enough product to earn sufficient profits. If suppliers charge too little, the quantity demanded increases but lower prices may not cover suppliers’ costs or allow for profits.



Some factors affecting demand include the appeal of a good or service, the availability of competing goods, the availability of financing, and the perceived availability of a good or service.






Demand elasticity relates to how sensitive the demand for a product is as the price for it changes. For example, if there's a big change in demand due to a small change in price, demand elasticity is said to be high. Shoppers may choose attractive substitute products if the price for their usual product has increased somewhat. That could indicate high demand elasticity and is useful for businesses to know.


   Determinants of Demand  

There are five main factors that drive demand:



Product/service priceBuyer's incomePrices of substitute goodsConsumer preferencesConsumer expectations for a change in price



As these factors change, so can the demand for a product or service. In fact, they change all the time, so demand can be constantly in flux.


   The Law of Demand  

The law of demand states that when prices rise, demand will fall. When prices fall, demand will rise.



The law of demand is simply an expression of the inverse relationship between price and demand. It involves price only. None of the other drivers of demand mentioned above are involved. If they do come into play, the functioning of the law can be affected. Demand can be seen to change for reasons other than price.


   Demand Curve  

A demand curve is a graph that displays the change in demand resulting from a change in price. It's a visual representation of the law of demand.



The demand curve can be a useful tool for businesses because it can show them the prices at which consumers start buying less or more. It can point out prices at which a company can maintain consumer demand and support reasonable profits.



On the demand curve graph, the vertical axis denotes the price, while the horizontal axis denotes the quantity demanded. A demand schedule, or table created by a business that lists the quantity of a product that consumers will buy at particular price points, can provide the figures for the demand curve chart.



Once plotted, the demand curve slopes downward, from left to right. As prices increase, consumers demand less of a good or service.



A supply curve slopes upward. As prices increase, suppliers provide more of a good or service.












   Market Equilibrium  

The point where supply and demand curves intersect represents the market clearing or market equilibrium price. An increase in demand shifts the demand curve to the right. The two curves then intersect at a higher price, which means consumers are willing to pay more for the product.



Equilibrium prices typically change for most goods and services because factors affecting supply and demand are always changing. Free, competitive markets tend to push prices toward market equilibrium.


   Market Demand vs. Aggregate Demand  

The market for each good in an economy faces a different set of circumstances, which vary in type and degree. In macroeconomics, we also look at aggregate demand in an economy.



Aggregate demand refers to the total demand by all consumers for all goods and services in an economy across all the markets for individual goods. Since aggregate demand includes all goods in an economy, it is not sensitive to competition or the substitution of goods. Nor is it to changes in consumer preferences between various goods. Demand in individual goods markets can be affected by these factors.


   Macroeconomic Policy and Demand  

Fiscal and monetary authorities, such as the Federal Reserve, devote much of their macroeconomic policy-making to managing aggregate demand.



If the Fed wants to reduce demand, it can raise interest rates and increase prices by curtailing the growth of the money supply and credit. If it needs to increase demand, the Fed can lower interest rates and increase the money supply, giving consumers and businesses more money to spend.



In certain cases, even the Fed can’t fuel demand. When unemployment is on the rise, people may not be able to afford to spend or take on cheaper debt, even with low interest rates.




What Is Meant by Demand?
The economic principle of demand concerns the quantity of a particular product or service that consumers are willing to purchase at various prices. Demand looks at a market's pricing and purchases from a consumer's point of view. On the other hand, the principle of supply underscores the point of view of the supplier of the product or service.




What Is the Demand Curve?
The demand curve is a graphical representation of the law of demand. It plots prices on a chart. The line that connects those prices is the demand curve. The vertical axis represents prices of products. The horizontal axis represents product quantity. Typically, the curve starts on the left side high up the vertical axis and descends across the chart to the right. The slope indicates that as prices decrease, demand, as shown by growing number of products purchased, increases.




What Is the Importance of Demand?
Economically speaking, the principle of demand has importance for both consumers and businesses that sell products and/or services. For businesses, understanding demand is vital when making decisions about inventory, pricing, and aiming for a particular profit. Consumers who have an understanding of demand can make confident decisions about what products to buy and when to buy them.
What Is the Demand Curve?  

The demand curve is a graphical representation of the relationship between the price of a good or service and the quantity demanded for a given period of time. In a typical representation, the price appears on the left vertical axis while the quantity demanded is on the horizontal axis. 



A demand curve doesn't look the same for every product or service. When the price rises, demand generally falls for almost any good, but the drop is much greater for some goods than for others. This is a reflection of the price elasticity of demand, a measurement of the change in consumption of a product in relation to a change in its price. The elasticity of demand for products varies between and within product categories, depending on the product’s substitutability.





Key Takeaways

A demand curve is a graph that shows the relationship between the price of a good or service and the quantity demanded within a specified time frame.Demand curves can be used to understand the price-quantity relationship for consumers in a particular market, such as corn or soybeans.The demand curve generally slopes down from left to right, due to the law of demand while the quantity demanded drops as the price rises for the majority of goods.Changes in factors besides price and quantity can shift a demand curve to the right or left.There are some exceptions to the relationship between price and demand, including Giffen goods and Veblen goods.


   Understanding the Demand Curve  

As noted above, the demand curve is a commonly used graph that represents the relationship between prices and the total quantity of goods and services demanded over a certain period of time. Prices normally appear on the y-axis while demand is depicted on the x-axis.



This curve generally moves downward from the left to the right. This movement expresses the law of demand, which states that as the price of a given commodity increases, the quantity demanded decreases as long as all else is equal.



Note that this formulation implies that price is the independent variable, and quantity is the dependent variable. In most disciplines, the independent variable appears on the horizontal or x-axis, but economics is an exception to this rule.



For example, if the price of corn rises, consumers will have an incentive to buy less corn and substitute other foods for it, so the total quantity of corn that consumers demand will fall.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   Types of Demand Curve  

There are two types of demand curve: an individual demand curve and a market demand curve.


  Individual Demand Curve  

An individual demand curve is one that examines the price-quantity relationship for an individual consumer, or how much of a product an individual will buy given a particular price.



Let's say the price of a slice of pizza is $1.50 and Joel is accustomed to buying four slices for lunch every workday (4 x $1.50 x 5 = $30). If the price drops to $1 a slice, four slices will cost Joel $20 (4 x $1 x 5), and Joel might demand six slices instead of four.



But if the price drops to 75 cents a slice, he might demand eight slices a day. With the price information and the number of slices Joel will demand at that price, it would be possible to plot an individual demand curve.


  Market Demand Curve  

The demand curve plots out the demand for an individual consumer, hence the name individual demand curve. But they don't take entire markets into account. That's where the market demand curve comes in.



A market demand curve is the summation of the individual demand curves in a given market. It shows the quantity of a good demanded by all individuals at varying price points. Keep in mind that this graph doesn't outline what consumers want. Rather, it depicts the goods and services they'll buy if they purchasing power to do so.



Determining the market demand curve is as easy as adding up all of the individual demand curves. This is then plotted along the horizontal or x-axis of the graph. Unlike individual demand curves, which are generally steeper, market demand curves tend to be flatter. That's because demand in the market is more proportionate as prices change compared to changes in individual demand.






Businesses can use the market demand curve to help determine whether their goods and services are properly priced according to consumer demand.


   Demand Elasticity  

The degree to which rising price translates into falling demand is called demand elasticity or price elasticity of demand. If a 50% rise in corn prices causes the quantity of corn demanded to fall by 50%, the demand elasticity of corn is 1. If a 50% rise in corn prices only decreases the quantity demanded by 10%, the demand elasticity is 0.2. Elasticity measures how demand shifts when economic factors change. When demand remains constant regardless of price changes, it is called inelasticity.


  Elastic Demand Curve  

The demand curve is shallower (closer to the horizontal axis) for products with more elastic demand. Goods with more elastic demand are those for which a change in price leads to a significant shift in demand. Elastic goods include luxury products and consumer discretionary items, such as a brand of a candy bar or cereal. Food items are easily substituted, and brand-name products are easily replaced by items that are lower in price.


  Inelastic Demand Curve  

The demand curve for items that are less elastic or inelastic is steeper (closer to the vertical axis). Inelastic goods are generally necessities, for which there are few, if any, substitutes. Common examples are utilities, prescription drugs, and tobacco products. Demand often remains constant for these items despite price changes.


   Factors That Shift the Demand Curve  

If a factor besides price or quantity changes, a new demand curve needs to be drawn. For example, say that the population of an area explodes, increasing the number of mouths to feed. In this scenario, more corn will be demanded even if the price remains the same, meaning that the curve itself shifts to the right (D2) in the graph below. In other words, demand will increase.



Other factors can shift the demand curve as well, such as a change in consumers' preferences. For instance:



If cultural shifts cause the market to shun corn in favor of quinoa, the demand curve will shift to the left (D3). 
If consumers' income drops, decreasing their ability to buy corn, demand will shift left (D3). 
If the price of a substitute—from the consumer's perspective—increases, consumers will buy corn instead, and demand will shift right (D2). 
If the price of a complement, such as charcoal to grill corn, increases, demand will shift left (D3). 
If the future price of corn is higher than the current price, the demand will temporarily shift to the right (D2), since consumers have the incentive to buy now before the price rises.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   Exceptions to the Demand Curve  

There are some exceptions to the rules that apply to the relationship that exists between prices of goods and demand. Two of these are Giffen goods and Veblen goods.


  Giffen Goods  

A Giffen good is a non-luxury product for which there is no viable substitute—for example, a staple food, like bread or rice. In short, the demand increases for a Giffen good when the price increases and it falls when the price drops.



The demand for these goods is on an upward slope, which goes against the laws of demand. Therefore, the typical response (rising prices triggering a substitution effect) won’t exist for Giffen goods, and the price rise will continue to push demand. 


  Veblen Goods  

Veblen goods are those for which demand rises even as the price rises because of the exclusive nature and appeal of these products as status symbols. Like the demand curve for a Giffen good, a Veblen good has an upward-sloping demand curve (in contrast to the usual downward-sloping curve).



Veblen goods are generally luxury items, such as cars, yachts, fine wines, and designer jewelry, that are high quality and out of reach for the majority of consumers. It is named after American economist Thorstein Veblen, who is best known for introducing the term “conspicuous consumption.”




What Is the Law of Demand?
This is a fundamental economic principle that holds that the quantity of a product purchased varies inversely with its price. In other words, the higher the price, the lower the quantity demanded. And at lower prices, consumer demand increases.The law of demand works with the law of supply to explain how market economies allocate resources and determine the price of goods and services in everyday transactions.




What Is the Difference Between a Demand Curve and a Supply Curve?
A demand curve represents the relationship between the price of a good or service and the quantity demanded for a given period of time. Typically, as the price rises, the demand falls; as a result, the curve slopes down from left to right. A supply curve is a graphic representation of the correlation between the cost of a good or service and the quantity supplied for a given time period. Typically, as the price of a product increases, the quantity supplied also increases. The resultant curve slopes upward from left to right.




Does the Demand Curve Slope Downward or Upward?
The demand curve generally slopes downward from left to right, illustrating that as the price of a good rises, the demand for it falls. However, there are exceptions to the rule—for Giffen goods and Veblen goods, for example. In both cases, rising prices tend to accompany a rise in demand, leading to a demand curve that rises from left to right.


   The Bottom Line  

A demand curve is a graphic display of the change in demand of a good resulting from a change in price in a given time period. On the demand curve graph, the vertical axis denotes the price and the horizontal axis denotes the quantity demanded. A demand curve can be a useful business tool because it can show the prices at which consumers start buying less or more. It can also point out the prices at which a company can maintain consumer demand and earn reasonable profits.
What Is a Demand Deposit?  

A demand deposit account (DDA) is a bank account from which deposited funds can be withdrawn at any time, without advance notice. DDA accounts can pay interest on the deposited funds but aren’t required to. Checking accounts and savings accounts are common types of DDAs.





Key Takeaways

Demand deposit accounts (DDAs) allow funds to be withdrawn at any time from the financial institution. Demand deposits provide funds for daily expenses and purchases.Demand deposit accounts pay little or no interest—the trade-off for the funds being so readily available.Demand deposit accounts can have joint owners. 












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   How Demand Deposits Work  

If depositors were required to notify their banks in advance before withdrawing funds, it would be quite a challenge to obtain cash or make mundane transactions. Demand deposit accounts are intended to provide ready money—the funds that people need to make a purchase or pay bills.



The account's holdings can be accessed at any time, without prior notice to the institution. The account holder simply walks up to the teller or the ATM—or, increasingly, goes online—and withdraws the sum they need; as long as the account has that amount, the institution has to give it to them. The money is available "on-demand"—hence, the name "demand deposit" for this sort of account.



Demand deposit accounts, which typically are offered by banks and credit unions, are in contrast to investment accounts offered by brokerages and financial services firms. While the funds may be invested in highly liquid assets, the account holder still must notify the institution that they wish to withdraw money; depending on the asset in question, it may take a day or two for the investments to be sold and the cash to be available.



"DDA" can also mean direct debit authorization, which is a withdrawal from an account for purchasing a good or service. It's what happens when you use a debit card. But it's fundamentally the same concept: The money is immediately available, drawn on the linked account, for your use.


   Special Considerations  

Demand deposit accounts (DDAs) may have joint owners. Both owners must sign when opening the account, but only one owner must sign when closing the account. Either owner may deposit or withdraw funds and sign checks without permission from the other owner.



Some banks create minimum balances for demand deposit accounts. Accounts falling below the minimum value typically are assessed a fee each time the balance drops below the required value. However, many banks now offer no monthly fees and no minimum balances. 


   Types of Demand Deposit Accounts (DDAs)   

DDAs are primarily checking accounts, but they can include savings accounts as well. Money market accounts (MMAs) are a bit of a gray area: Some financial authorities classify them as DDAs, some don't.






Demand deposits make up most of a particular measure of the money supply—M1. This is the sum of all of a nation's demand deposits, plus all the currency in circulation. It's a measure of the most liquid types of money in the money supply.



As of May 2022, the total amount of demand deposit accounts in the U.S.—officially, the total demand deposits component of M1—was $4.98 trillion. This compares to $1.4 trillion five years ago and $733 billion 10 years ago.






   Requirements for Demand Deposits  

The key requirements of DDAs are no limitations on withdrawals or transfers, no set maturity or lockup period, funds accessible on-demand, and no eligibility requirements. 



The payment of interest and the amount of interest on the DDA are up to the individual institution. Once upon a time, banks could not pay interest on certain demand deposit accounts. For example, the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation Q (Req Q) enacted in 1933, specifically prohibited banks from paying interest on checking account deposits.



Many banks got around that rule via negotiable order of withdrawal (NOW) accounts, checking accounts with a temporary holding period on funds, which allowed them to actually pay some interest. Reg Q was repealed in 2011.



Still, DDAs tend to pay relatively low-interest rates (on savings accounts) no interest at all (as is often the case with checking accounts, Reg Q's repeal notwithstanding). They may also charge various fees for handling the account.


   Demand Deposit vs. Term Deposit  

A demand deposit account and a term deposit account are both types of financial accounts offered by banks and credit unions. But they differ in terms of accessibility or liquidity, and in the amount of interest that can be earned on the deposited funds.



Basically, a DDA allows funds to be accessed anytime, while a term deposit account—also known as a time deposit account—restricts access to funds for a predetermined period. Funds cannot be withdrawn from a term deposit account until the end of that term without incurring a financial penalty, and withdrawals often require written notice in advance.



The most familiar type of term deposit account is the certificate of deposit (CD). You buy the CD for a set term or time period—a certain number of months or years—and you generally don't touch it until the term is up. It sits in a special account, earning interest at a fixed rate.



That interest is the second big thing distinguishing demand deposits from term deposits. Term deposits offer interest rates that are generally higher DDAs—much closer to prevailing market rates. That's basically the trade-off: In return for the ability to access your funds on demand, your money earns less in a DDA. The time deposit pays more, in compensation for its lack of liquidity.



Where do money market accounts (MMAs) fit into the equation? They're a hybrid. They let account-holders deposit and withdraw funds on demand and they typically pay market interest rates (it fluctuates). However, they might not be as on-demand as regular demand deposit accounts. Some banks may limit the per month withdrawals or other transactions (like transfers) on MMA accounts. Fees may apply if the limit is exceeded.




What Does DDA Mean on a Bank Statement?
The acronym DDA stands for "demand deposit account," indicating that funds in the account (usually a checking or regular savings account) are available for immediate use—on-demand, so to speak. DDA can also stand for "direct debit authorization," meaning a transaction, such as a transfer, cash withdrawal, bill payment, or purchase, which has immediately subtracted money from the account.




What Is a Consumer DDA Account?
A consumer DDA is a demand deposit account. Such an account lets you withdraw funds without having to give the financial institution any advance notice.




What Is the Difference Between Demand Deposits and Time Deposits?
Demand deposits consist of funds the account holder can access right away, such as checking account funds. In contrast, time deposits or term deposits are locked for a certain period of time, such as certificates of deposit (CDs).




What Are the Advantages of Demand Deposit Accounts?
With demand deposit accounts, the funds are always readily available. You can withdraw the funds in form of the cash or to pay for something (using a debit card or online transfer) at any time, without giving the bank notice or incurring a penalty, or paying fees. They offer the utmost convenience for getting cash or transferring funds to another account or another party.


   The Bottom Line  

Offered by banks and credit unions, demand deposit accounts allow you to deposit to and withdraw funds immediately, whenever you want—"on-demand," in effect. The financial institution can't require advance notice or charge a fee for letting you access the funds. Ideal for frequent or everyday needs. DDAs usually take the form of checking or savings accounts.



The main drawback of DDAs is that they offer little or no interest in the money in them. That's the price you pay for the funds being readily available.
What Is a Demand Draft?  

A demand draft is a method used by an individual to make a transfer payment from one bank account to another. Demand drafts differ from regular normal checks in that they do not require signatures to be cashed. In 2005, due to the increasing fraudulent use of demand drafts, the Federal Reserve proposed new regulations increasing a victim's right to claim a refund and holding banks more accountable for cashing fraudulent checks.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A demand draft is a way to initiate a bank transfer that does not require a signature, as is the case with a check.A demand draft is a prepaid instrument; therefore, you cannot stop payment on it in the case of fraud or mis-intended recipient.Because demand drafts can be used to defraud people, there are regulations now in place that allow victims to recover funds from the holding bank.Demand drafts are less flexible compared to other payment methods but may offer greater security compared to electronic payments or online payment systems.Contact your bank if your demand draft is lost or stolen.


   Understanding Demand Drafts  

When a bank prepares a demand draft, the amount of the draft is taken from the account of the customer requesting the draft and is transferred to an account at another bank. The drawer is the person requesting the demand draft; the bank paying the money is the drawee; the party receiving the money is the payee. Demand drafts were originally designed to benefit legitimate telemarketers who needed to withdraw funds from customer checking accounts using their bank account numbers and bank routing numbers.



For example, if a small business owner purchases products from another company on credit, the small business owner asks his bank to send a demand draft to the company for payment of the products, making him the drawer. The bank issues the draft, making it the drawee. After the draft matures, the owner of the other company brings the demand draft to his bank and collects his payment, making him the payee.






Because a demand draft is a prepaid instrument, payment cannot be stopped, whereas payment of a check may be denied for insufficient funds.


   Process of Obtaining Demand Draft  

To obtain a demand draft, start by choosing the issuing bank or financial institution from which you want to obtain the draft. Visit the bank branch and provide additional identification and documentation if you're not an account holder. You'll often have to fill out an application form with the required details including the amount to be paid, the name of the payee, and other relevant information.



The bank often asks you to provide supporting documents such as proof of identification and address. This is in compliance with Know Your Customer (KYC) regulations. After you pay the required fees, you'll receive the demand draft in your name with a unique draft number printed on special security paper.



When you receive the demand draft, check the demand draft details. Ensure all information is correct including the payee's name, amount, and instructions to ensure they match your requirements. From there, all that's left is to deliver the demand draft to the payee depending on your preference and bank's policies.


   Demand Drafts vs. Other Payment Methods  
  Demand Drafts vs. Checks  

A demand draft is issued by a bank while a check is issued by an individual. Also, a demand draft is drawn by an employee of a bank while a check is drawn by a customer of a bank. Payment of a demand draft may not be stopped by the drawer as it may with a check.



Although a check can be hand-delivered, this is not the case with a demand draft. The draft may be drawn regardless of whether an individual holds an account at the bank while a check may be written only by an account holder.


  Demand Draft vs. Wire Transfer  

A demand draft is a physical payment instrument issued by a bank or financial institution representing a guaranteed form of payment as the funds are pre-paid by the purchaser. On the other hand, a wire transfer, also known as a bank transfer or electronic funds transfer (EFT), involves the electronic transfer of funds from one bank account to another.



The processing time for a demand draft may vary depending on factors such as the issuing bank and delivery method. However, wire transfers are generally faster than demand drafts. Often completing within hours or minutes, this allows for swift transfer of funds.



Banks typically charge a fee for issuing a demand draft, which may vary depending on the bank and the amount of the draft. Additional charges may apply for services such as courier delivery. Wire transfers usually also involve transaction fees, which can vary depending on the banks involved, the transfer amount, and whether it is a domestic or international transfer.



Demand drafts are commonly used for secure transactions such as large amounts, educational fees, property purchases, or settling financial obligations. This is the case where substantiation and secure delivery of payment is of high importance. Though wire transfers may also be used in this case, wire transfers are a more versatile form of payment that includes regular daily transactions of lower importance.






Contact your bank immediately if your demand draft is lost or stolen.


  Demand Draft vs. Online Payment System  

Online payment systems are digital platforms that facilitate electronic transactions over the internet, allowing individuals and businesses to make payments or transfer funds between bank accounts or digital wallets without the need for physical instruments. Compared to demand drafts, online payment systems typically offer faster processing times, allowing transactions to be completed in real-time.



While demand drafts often incur transaction fees, more and more online payment systems may also offer free transactions for certain transfers or within specific limits. This may be free transactions based on the number of quantities or free transactions based on the size of the transaction. Consider how popular shopping websites can easily facilitate online payments for free.



Online payment systems have gained significant popularity worldwide, used for various transactions, including e-commerce purchases, bill payments, peer-to-peer transfers, and subscription services. As noted above with wire transfers, demand drafts may be more suitable for more select types of transactions as opposed to online payments which may be used much more broadly.




How Long Does It Take for a Demand Draft to Clear?
The clearing time for a demand draft can vary depending on factors such as the banks involved and the method of presentation. It typically takes several business days for the demand draft to clear and for the funds to become available to the payee. The exact time frame can depend on the policies and processes of the banks involved.




What Fees and Charges Are Associated with Demand Drafts?
Fees associated with demand drafts include an issuance fee charged by the bank for providing the draft. Additionally, there may be additional charges for services like courier delivery if the draft needs to be sent to the payee through postal services or courier. The fees can vary between banks, so check with your bank for the specific charges.




Can I Cancel or Stop a Demand Draft?
Yes, demand drafts can generally be canceled or stopped by the purchaser. If a demand draft needs to be canceled, the purchaser should contact the issuing bank immediately and provide the necessary details. The bank will guide the purchaser through the cancellation process which may involve submitting a written request and paying cancellation fees.




What Should I Do If My Demand Draft Is Lost or Stolen?
If a demand draft is lost or stolen, it is crucial to take immediate action. Contact the issuing bank and provide them with all relevant details. The bank will guide you through the necessary steps to report the loss or theft. This typically involves submitting a written request, providing any supporting documents, and cooperating with the bank's investigation process to resolve the issue.


   The Bottom Line  

A demand draft is a secure payment instrument issued by a bank that guarantees the availability of funds. It involves the bank deducting the draft amount from the purchaser's account and setting aside the funds. When presented for payment, the funds are transferred to the payee's account. Demand drafts offer security, wide acceptance, and convenience for both parties. They can be obtained from banks by filling out an application form, providing documentation, and paying an issuance fee.
What Is Price Elasticity of Demand?  

Price elasticity of demand is a measurement of the change in the consumption of a product in relation to a change in its price. Expressed mathematically, it is:



Price Elasticity of Demand = Percentage Change in Quantity Demanded ÷ Percentage Change in Price



Economists use price elasticity to understand how supply and demand for a product change when its price changes. Like demand, supply also has an elasticity, known as price elasticity of supply. Price elasticity of supply refers to the relationship between change in supply and change in price. It’s calculated by dividing the percentage change in quantity supplied by the percentage change in price. Together, the two elasticities combine to determine what goods are produced at what prices.





Key Takeaways

Price elasticity of demand is a measurement of the change in consumption of a product in relation to a change in its price.A good is perfectly elastic if the price elasticity is infinite (if demand changes substantially even with minimal price change).If price elasticity is greater than 1, the good is elastic; if less than 1, it is inelastic.If a good’s price elasticity is 0 (no amount of price change produces a change in demand), it is perfectly inelastic.If price elasticity is exactly 1 (price change leads to an equal percentage change in demand), it is known as unitary elasticity.The availability of a substitute for a product affects its elasticity. If there are no good substitutes and the product is necessary, demand won’t change when the price goes up, making it inelastic.












Theresa Chiechi / Investopedia


   Understanding Price Elasticity of Demand  

Economists have found that the prices of some goods are very inelastic. That is, a reduction in price does not increase demand much, and an increase in price does not hurt demand, either. For example, gasoline has little price elasticity of demand. Drivers will continue to buy as much as they have to, as will airlines, the trucking industry, and nearly every other buyer.



Other goods are much more elastic, so price changes for these goods cause substantial changes in their demand or their supply.



Not surprisingly, this concept is of great interest to marketing professionals. It could even be said that their purpose is to create inelastic demand for the products that they market. They achieve that by identifying a meaningful difference in their products from any others that are available.



If the quantity demanded of a product changes greatly in response to changes in its price, it is elastic. That is, the demand point for the product is stretched far from its prior point. If the quantity purchased shows a small change after a change in its price, it is inelastic. The quantity didn’t stretch much from its prior point. 


   Factors That Affect Price Elasticity of Demand  
  Availability of Substitutes  

The more easily a shopper can substitute one product for another, the more the price will fall. For example, in a world in which people like coffee and tea equally if the price of coffee goes up, people will have no problem switching to tea, and the demand for coffee will fall. This is because coffee and tea are considered good substitutes for each other.


  Urgency  

The more discretionary a purchase is, the more its quantity of demand will fall in response to price increases. That is, the product demand has greater elasticity.



Say you are considering buying a new washing machine, but the current one still works; it’s just old and outdated. If the price of a new washing machine goes up, you’re likely to forgo that immediate purchase and wait until prices go down or the current machine breaks down.



The less discretionary a product is, the less its quantity demanded will fall. Inelastic examples include luxury items that people buy for their brand names. Addictive products are quite inelastic, as are required add-on products, such as inkjet printer cartridges.



One thing all these products have in common is that they lack good substitutes. If you really want an Apple iPad, then a Kindle Fire won’t do. Addicts are not dissuaded by higher prices, and only HP ink will work in HP printers (unless you disable HP cartridge protection).


  Duration of Price Change  

The length of time that the price change lasts also matters. Demand response to price fluctuations is different for a one-day sale than for a price change that lasts for a season or a year.



Clarity of time sensitivity is vital to understanding the price elasticity of demand and for comparing it with different products. Consumers may accept a seasonal price fluctuation rather than change their habits.


   Types of Price Elasticity of Demand  

Price elasticity of demand can be categorized according to the number calculated by dividing the percentage change in quantity demanded by the percentage change in price. These categories include the following:










Types of Price Elasticity of Demand




If the percentage change in quantity demanded divided by the percentage change in price equals:
It is known as:
Which means:


Infinity
Perfectly elastic
Changes in price result in demand declining to zero


Greater than 1
Elastic
Changes in price yield a significant change in demand


1
Unitary
Changes in price yield equivalent (percentage) changes in demand


Less than 1
Inelastic
Changes in price yield an insignificant change in demand


0
Perfectly inelastic
Changes in price yield no change in demand






Data: Khan Academy


   Example of Price Elasticity of Demand  

As a rule of thumb, if the quantity of a product demanded or purchased changes more than the price changes, then the product is considered to be elastic (for example, the price goes up by 5%, but the demand falls by 10%).



If the change in quantity purchased is the same as the price change (say, 10% ÷ 10% = 1), then the product is said to have unit (or unitary) price elasticity.



Finally, if the quantity purchased changes less than the price (say, -5% demanded for a +10% change in price), then the product is deemed inelastic.



To calculate the elasticity of demand, consider this example: Suppose that the price of apples falls by 6% from $1.99 a bushel to $1.87 a bushel. In response, grocery shoppers increase their apple purchases by 20%. The elasticity of apples is thus: 0.20 ÷ 0.06 = 3.33. The demand for apples is quite elastic.




What is price elasticity of demand?
Price elasticity of demand is the ratio of the percentage change in quantity demanded of a product to the percentage change in price. Economists employ it to understand how supply and demand change when a product’s price changes.




What makes a product elastic?
If a price change for a product causes a substantial change in either its supply or its demand, it is considered elastic. Generally, it means that there are acceptable substitutes for the product. Examples would be cookies, luxury automobiles, and coffee.




What makes a product inelastic?
If a price change for a product doesn’t lead to much, if any, change in its supply or demand, it is considered inelastic. Generally, it means that the product is considered to be a necessity or a luxury item for addictive constituents. Examples would be gasoline, milk, and iPhones.




What is the importance of price elasticity of demand?
Knowing the price elasticity of demand for goods allows someone selling that good to make informed decisions about pricing strategies. This metric provides sellers with information about consumer pricing sensitivity. It is also key for makers of goods to determine manufacturing plans, as well as for governments to assess how to impose taxes on goods.
What is Demand for Labor  

When producing goods and services, businesses require labor and capital as inputs to their production process. The demand for labor is an economics principle derived from the demand for a firm's output. That is, if demand for a firm's output increases, the firm will demand more labor, thus hiring more staff. And if demand for the firm's output of goods and services decreases, in turn, it will require less labor and its demand for labor will fall, and less staff will be retained.



Labor market factors drive the supply and demand for labor. Those seeking employment will supply their labor in exchange for wages. Businesses demanding labor from workers will pay for their time and skills.


   BREAKING DOWN Demand for Labor  

Demand for labor is a concept that describes the amount of demand for labor that an economy or firm is willing to employ at a given point in time. This demand may not necessarily be in long-run equilibrium. It is determined by the real wage firms are willing to pay for this labor and the number of workers willing to supply labor at that wage.



A profit-maximizing entity will command additional units of labor according to the marginal decision rule: If the extra output that is produced by hiring one more unit of labor adds more to total revenue than it adds to the total cost, the firm will increase profit by increasing its use of labor. It will continue to hire more and more labor up to the point that the extra revenue generated by the additional labor no longer exceeds the extra cost of the labor. This relationship is also called the marginal product of labor (MPL) in the economics community.


   Other Considerations in Demand for Labor  

According to the law of diminishing marginal returns, by definition, in most sectors, eventually the MPL will decrease. Based on this law: as units of one input are added (with all other inputs held constant) a point will be reached where the resulting additions to output will begin to decrease; that is marginal product will decline.



Another consideration is the marginal revenue product of labor (MRPL), which is the change in revenue that results from employing an additional unit of labor, holding all other inputs constant. This can be used to determine the optimal number of workers to employ at a given market wage rate. According to economic theory, profit-maximizing firms will hire workers up to the point where the marginal revenue product is equal to the wage rate because it is not efficient for a firm to pay its workers more than it will earn in revenues from their labor.


   Common Reasons for a Shift in Labor Demand  

Changes in the marginal productivity of labor, such as technological advances brought on by computersChanges in the prices of other factors of production, including shifts in the relative prices of labor and capital stockChanges in the price of an entity’s output, usually from an entity charging more for their product or service
What Is Demand-Pull Inflation?  

Inflation is a general rise in the price of goods in an economy. Demand-pull inflation causes upward pressure on prices due to shortages in supply, a condition that economists describe as "too many dollars chasing too few goods." An increase in aggregate demand can also lead to this type of inflation.



In Keynesian economics, an increase in aggregate demand may be caused by a rise in employment, as companies need to hire more people to increase their output. A tight labor market means higher wages, which translates into greater demand.



Demand-pull inflation can be compared with cost-push inflation.





Key Takeaways

Inflation is thought to be caused by different mechanisms.When aggregate demand surpasses available supply, higher prices are the result. This is demand-pull inflation.A low unemployment rate is unquestionably good in general, but it can cause inflation because more people have more disposable income.Increased government spending is good for the economy, too, but it can lead to scarcity in some goods and inflation will follow.Another explanation is cost-push inflation, whereby costs of production increase and higher prices are passed on to consumers.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Demand-Pull Inflation  

The term demand-pull inflation usually describes a widespread phenomenon. That is, when consumer demand outpaces the available supply of many types of consumer goods, demand-pull inflation sets in, forcing an overall increase in the cost of living.



Demand-pull inflation is a tenet of Keynesian economics that describes the effects of an imbalance in aggregate supply and demand. When the aggregate demand in an economy strongly outweighs the aggregate supply, prices go up. This is the most common cause of inflation.



In Keynesian economic theory, an increase in employment leads to an increase in aggregate demand for consumer goods. In response to the demand, companies hire more people so that they can increase their output. The more people firms hire, the more employment increases. Eventually, the demand for consumer goods outpaces the ability of manufacturers to supply them.


   Causes of Demand-Pull Inflation  

There are five primary causes of demand-pull inflation:



A growing economy: When consumers feel confident, they spend more and take on more debt. This leads to a steady increase in demand, which means higher prices.  
Increasing export demand: A sudden rise in exports forces an undervaluation of the currencies involved.
Government spending: When the government spends more freely, prices go up.
Inflation expectations: Companies may increase their prices in expectation of inflation in the near future.
More money in the system: An expansion of the money supply with too few goods to buy makes prices increase.


   Demand-Pull Inflation vs. Cost-Push Inflation  

Cost-push inflation occurs when money is transferred from one economic sector to another. Specifically, an increase in production costs such as raw materials and wages inevitably is passed on to consumers in the form of higher prices for finished goods.



Demand-pull and cost-push inflation move in practically the same way but they work on different aspects of the system. Demand-pull inflation demonstrates the causes of price increases. Cost-push inflation shows how inflation, once it begins, is difficult to stop.






In good times, companies hire more. But, eventually, higher consumer demand may outpace production capacity, causing inflation.


   Demand-Pull Inflation Example  

Say the economy is in a boom period, and the unemployment rate falls to a new low. Interest rates are at a low point, too. The federal government, seeking to get more gas-guzzling cars off the road, initiates a special tax credit for buyers of fuel-efficient cars. The big auto companies are thrilled, although they didn't anticipate such a confluence of upbeat factors all at once.



Demand for many models of cars goes through the roof, but the manufacturers literally can't make them fast enough. The prices of the most popular models rise, and bargains are rare. The result is an increase in the average price of a new car.



It's not just cars that are affected, though. With almost everyone gainfully employed and borrowing rates at a low, consumer spending on many goods increases beyond the available supply. That's demand-pull inflation in action.




What Is Meant by Demand-Pull in Economics?
Economists suggest that prices can be pulled higher by an increase in aggregate demand that outstrips the available supply of goods in an economy. The result can be inflation.




What Are the 3 Types of Inflation?
Inflation is sometimes classified into three types: demand-pull inflation, cost-push inflation, and built-in inflation. Built-in inflation is an alternative explanation for rising prices that differs from cost-push and demand-pull theories, which highlights the role of expectations for future inflation by consumers and businesses.




How Does Inflation Impact the Economy?
Inflation can affect the economy in several ways. For example, if inflation causes a nation’s currency to decline, this can benefit exporters by making their goods more affordable when priced in the currency of foreign nations.On the other hand, this could harm importers by making foreign-made goods more expensive. Higher inflation can also encourage spending, as consumers will aim to purchase goods quickly before their prices rise further. Savers, on the other hand, could see the real value of their savings erode, limiting their ability to spend or invest in the future.


   The Bottom Line  

Demand-pull inflation explains rising prices in an economy as the result of increased aggregate demand that surpasses supply. As consumers demand more given limited supply, prices are bid higher. Demand-pull inflation can be contrasted with cost-push inflation, whereby higher costs of production are passed on to consumers.
What Is a Demand Schedule?  

In economics, a demand schedule is a table that shows the quantity demanded of a good or service at different price levels. A demand schedule can be graphed as a continuous demand curve on a chart where the Y-axis represents price and the X-axis represents quantity.





Key Takeaways

Analysts can estimate the demand for a good at any point along the demand schedule.Demand schedules, used in conjunction with supply schedules, provide a visual depiction of the supply and demand dynamics of a market.Demand schedules are used to forecast the raw materials and labor needed during manufacturing should management decide to sell goods at one price over another.Demand schedules inform management of the elasticity of a product, the response in demand of a good based on changing prices.Demand schedules do have limitations, as they must be continually revised to match true market expectations as well as they do not incorporate non-financial impacts to demand.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Demand Schedules  

A demand schedule most commonly consists of two columns. The first column lists the price for a product in ascending or descending order. The second column lists the quantity of the product desired or demanded at that price. The price is determined based on research on the market.



When the data in the demand schedule is graphed to create the demand curve, it supplies a visual demonstration of the relationship between price and demand, allowing easy estimation of the demand for a product or service at any point along the curve.






A demand schedule tabulates the quantity of goods that consumers will purchase at given prices.


   Demand Schedules vs. Supply Schedules  

A demand schedule is typically used in conjunction with a supply schedule, which shows the quantity of a good that would be supplied to the market by producers at given price levels. By graphing both schedules on a chart with the axes described above, it is possible to obtain a graphical representation of the supply and demand dynamics of a particular market.



In a typical supply and demand relationship, as the price of a good or service rises, the quantity demanded tends to fall. If all other factors are equal, the market reaches an equilibrium where the supply and demand schedules intersect. At this point, the corresponding price is the equilibrium market price, and the corresponding quantity is the equilibrium quantity exchanged in the market.


   Additional Factors on Demand  

Price is not the sole factor that determines the demand for a particular product. Demand may also be affected by the amount of disposable income available, shifts in the quality of the goods in question, effective advertising, and even weather patterns.



Price changes of related goods or services may also affect demand. If the price of one product rises, demand for a substitute may rise, while a fall in the price of a product may increase demand for its complements. For example, a rise in the price of one brand of coffeemaker may increase the demand for a relatively cheaper coffeemaker produced by a competitor. If the price of all coffeemakers falls, the demand for coffee, a complement to the coffeemaker market, may rise as consumers take advantage of the price decline in coffeemakers.


   Importance of a Demand Schedule  

Demand schedules play an important part in economics in projecting future economic activity and for management to predict how their product(s) will perform. For this reason, there are many different aspects of value to a demand schedule.



Demand schedules drive pricing decisions. Companies can aggregate data and analyze where the price point makes the most sense for the demand they want to achieve in the market. The ultimate price a consumer pays for the good they want is often dictated by the relationship between points along this demand schedule.
Demand schedules inform of elasticity. Though it's really the underlying data that drives the information, demand schedules clearly communicate whether products are elastic or inelastic. An elastic product can have its price materially changed without a major impact on the demand for the good. Inelastic goods may suffer severe declines during price increases, though. This information better informs management of how to handle pricing strategy.
Demand schedules lead manufacturing estimates. Once a company has selected its price point, the company can then use the demand schedule to understand how many units it expects to sell over time. This means the company can better forecast what raw materials, equipment, and labor it will need at what times to deliver expectations to the market. This may also allow the company to plan ahead and lock into favorable pricing knowing there may be a certain level of demand at given points in time. 
Demand schedules translate to other products. Once a company better understands the market and its specific consumer base, the company can leverage that information to other products. This includes forecasting what may happen if the company launches a brand-new product or line in the future. 






Some demand schedule curves are not gradual. Consider a gift card for $100. If a company sells it for less than $100, demand will be substantially higher. If a company sells it for more than $100, there theoretically be no financial demand for the gift card (unless there are other factors to consider such as charitable donations).


   Limitations of a Demand Schedule  

There are several downsides to a demand schedule. Though the law of demand is primarily focused on a good's price, there are other factors that may cause changes in the demand for a product such as consumer preference, product utility, market innovation, and global circumstances such a weather.



Demand schedules also face the risk of obsolescence and being outdated if they are not periodically reviewed. For example, consider the latest iPhone model and the potential demand schedule for the good. Upon the announcement of the next iPhone model, there may be immediate implications to the demand schedule of the prior version. By extension, the demand schedule is handcuffed to the demand curve, and the demand curve does shift based on external factors.



Last, the demand schedule is simply a forecast. There's no way of knowing the projections will actually materialize until a product is brought to market, time passes, and data can be analyzed. Companies would be best suited on comparing forecast demand schedules with actual demand schedules to ensure they are continually learning from prior estimates.


   Example of a Demand Schedule  

Consider an example of a company trying to determine the best pricing strategy for its brand new 40" 4K HDTV. The company has performed market analysis including conducting surveys of potential consumers and has pulled together the following demand schedule.









Demand Schedule, Example (Market Only)


 Price per TV
 Estimated Demand




$1,500
1,000


$1,250
1,250


$1,000
2,000


$850
3,000


$750
5,000






From this curve, the company realizes there is substantial demand for the product as the price decreases (which is standard for the law of demand). However, the company is disappointed in how quickly the demand curve appears to have dropped off once the television is priced at greater than $1,000. It decides to do another market survey, but this time is approaches two geographical markets.










Demand Schedule, Example (Two Markets)


 Price per TV
Estimated Demand (Market 1)
Estimated Demand (Market 2)




 $1,500
1,000
300


$1,250 
1,250 
325 


$1,000 
2,000 
350 


$850 
3,000 
350 


$750 
5,000 
400 






Several conclusions can be pulled from this second demand schedule. First, the demand curve is much less steep; consumers in the second market don't dramatically have more demand for the TV as the price declines like the first market. The other main takeaway is that demand is simply lower. For this reason, the company could leverage this information to (1) attempt to sell fewer TVs in the second market at a higher price point and (2) attempt to sell more TVs in the first market at a lower price point.




What Information Does a Demand Schedule Show?
A demand schedule is meant to inform a manufacturer, distributor, or retailer of consumer demand for a product at different price points. This information may or may not incorporate a time series where the demand schedule can be tracked over time. Alternatively, a demand schedule from different markets may be compiled and shown against each other for comparative analysis.




What Are the 2 Types of Demand Schedules?
Demand schedules may be prepared for individual consumers or for the broad, general market. These two demand schedules will differ as the market demand schedule will encompass a more broad set of expectations while an individual demand schedule may be more refined into a specific subset of data.




What Are Demand Schedules Used for?
Demand schedules are used to make manufacturing plans, forecast sales, ensure appropriate resources are on hand to meet demand, and to set pricing strategies. The demand schedule summarizes the economic impact of how rising prices can influence the demand of a good (and vice versa).


   The Bottom Line  

A demand schedule is a series of points that identify what consumer demand will be for a product at different price points. Businesses use this information to make smarter business decisions, as sometimes it is not always in the best interest to simply try and sell a product for the highest possible price. This information from a demand schedule also informs management of selling, manufacturing, and delivery needs in the future.
What Is a Demand Shock?  

A demand shock is a sudden unexpected event that dramatically increases or decreases demand for a product or service, usually temporarily. A positive demand shock is a sudden increase in demand, while a negative demand shock is a decrease in demand. Either shock will have an effect on the prices of the product or service.



A demand shock may be contrasted with a supply shock, which is a sudden change in the supply of a product or service that causes an observable economic effect.



Supply and demand shocks are examples of economic shocks.





Key Takeaways

A demand shock is a sharp, sudden change in the demand for a product or service.A positive demand shock will cause a shortage and drive the price higher, while a negative shock will lead to oversupply and a lower price.Demand shocks are usually short-lived, but can have longer-term consequences.


   Understanding a Demand Shock  

A demand shock is a large but transitory disruption of the market price for a product or service, caused by an unexpected event that changes the perception and demand.



An earthquake, a terrorist event, a technological advance, and a government stimulus program can all cause a demand shock. So can a negative review, a product recall, or a surprising news event.


  Supply and Demand  

When the demand for a good or service rapidly increases, its price typically increases because suppliers cannot cope with the increased demand. In economic terms, this results in a shift in the demand curve to the right. A sudden drop in demand causes the opposite to happen. The supply in place is too great for the demand.



Other demand shocks can come from the anticipation of a natural disaster or climate event, such as a run on bottled water, backup generators, or electric fans.



A positive demand shock can come from fiscal policy, such as an economic stimulus or tax cuts. Negative demand shocks can come from contractionary policy, such as tightening the money supply or decreasing government spending. Whether positive or negative, these may be considered deliberate shocks to the system.


   Examples of Demand Shocks  

The rise of electric cars over the past few years is a real-world example of a demand shock. It was hard to predict the demand for electric cars and, therefore, for their component parts. Lithium batteries, for example, had low demand as recently as the mid-2000s.



From 2010, the rise in the demand for electric cars from companies like Tesla Motors increased the overall market share of these cars to 3% or roughly 2,100,000 vehicles. The demand for lithium batteries to power the cars also increased sharply, and somewhat unexpectedly.


  The Lithium Shortage  

Lithium is a limited natural resource that is difficult to extract and found only in certain parts of the world. Production has been unable to keep up with the growth in demand, and so the supply of newly mined lithium remains lower than it would be otherwise. The result is a demand shock.



Over the period from 2016 to 2018, demand for lithium more than doubled, increasing the average price per metric ton from $8,650 in 2016 to $17,000 in 2018. Over the past decade, the increase in demand for electric cars from companies like Tesla Motors (TSLA) has increased the overall market share of these cars to more than 4% of car sales in 2022. The demand for lithium batteries to power the cars also increased sharply, and somewhat unexpectedly.



During this time, demand exploded for electric vehicles and also battery-powered mobile phones, laptops, and tablets.



From 2020 to 2022, the price of lithium has more than doubled again. This is because the COVID-19 pandemic initially caused a decrease in demand that caused the price of a metric ton of Li to fall to $8,000. However, as the economy recovered, the price quickly spiked to $17,000 once again by the end of 2021. The cost has been passed onto the consumer, raising the cost of electric cars in a positive demand shock environment.


  A Negative Demand Shock  

The cathode ray tube is an example of a negative demand shock. The introduction of low-cost flat-screen televisions caused the demand for cathode-ray tube TVs and computer screens to drop to nearly zero in a few short years. Not incidentally, the introduction of low-cost flat screens caused a once-common service job, the television repairman, to become virtually extinct.




How Does a Demand Shock Differ From a Supply Shock?
A demand shock occurs when there is an unexpected change in demand, such that suppliers cannot quickly enough respond. A supply shock, on the other hand, is when there is an unexpected change in supply (often a sudden reduction, although supply shocks also exist when there is a glut).




What Can Cause a Demand Shock?
Demand shocks may be caused for one or more of several reasons. An economic recession may lead to high unemployment, where people are unable to spend as they had before. Natural or geopolitical disasters can also have a similar effect in the short run. Demand shocks can also occur if a technological advance makes a previous technology quickly obsolete.




Did Government Stimulus Checks Create a Demand Shock?
In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the U.S. government issued a series of stimulus checks to American households. The goal was to help families cope with lockdowns, business closures, and other disruptions. However, these checks also may have been a positive demand shock, boosting spending by too much as the economy recovered and leading to high inflation.
What Is Demand Theory?  

Demand theory is an economic principle relating to the relationship between consumer demand for goods and services and their prices in the market. Demand theory forms the basis for the demand curve, which relates consumer desire to the amount of goods available. As more of a good or service is available, demand drops and so does the equilibrium price.



Demand theory highlights the role that demand plays in price formation, while supply-side theory favors the role of supply in the market.


   Understanding Demand Theory  

Demand is simply the quantity of a good or service that consumers are willing and able to buy at a given price in a given time period. People demand goods and services in an economy to satisfy their wants, such as food, healthcare, clothing, entertainment, shelter, etc. The demand for a product at a certain price reflects the satisfaction that an individual expects from consuming the product. This level of satisfaction is referred to as utility and it differs from consumer to consumer. The demand for a good or service depends on two factors: (1) its utility to satisfy a want or need, and (2) the consumer’s ability to pay for the good or service. In effect, real demand is when the readiness to satisfy a want is backed up by the individual’s ability and willingness to pay.



Demand theory is one of the core theories of microeconomics. It aims to answer basic questions about how badly people want things, and how demand is impacted by income levels and satisfaction (utility). Based on the perceived utility of goods and services by consumers, companies adjust the supply available and the prices charged.



Built into demand are factors such as consumer preferences, tastes, choices, etc. Evaluating demand in an economy is, therefore, one of the most important decision-making variables that a business must analyze if it is to survive and grow in a competitive market. The market system is governed by the laws of supply and demand, which determine the prices of goods and services. When supply equals demand, prices are said to be in a state of equilibrium. When demand is higher than supply, prices increase to reflect scarcity. Conversely, when demand is lower than supply, prices fall due to the surplus.





Key Takeaways

Demand theory describes the way that changes in the quantity of a good or service demanded by consumers affects its price in the market,The theory states that the higher the price of a product is, all else equal, the less of it will be demanded, inferring a downward sloping demand curve.Likewise, the more demand that occurs, the greater the price will be for a given supply.Demand theory places primacy on the demand side of the supply-demand relationship.


   The Law of Demand and the Demand Curve  

The law of demand introduces an inverse relationship between price and demand for a good or service. It simply states that as the price of a commodity increases, demand decreases, provided other factors remain constant. Also, as the price decreases, demand increases. This relationship can be illustrated graphically using a tool known as the demand curve.



The demand curve has a negative slope as it charts downward from left to right to reflect the inverse relationship between the price of an item and the quantity demanded over a period of time. An expansion or contraction of demand occurs as a result of the income effect or substitution effect. When the price of a commodity falls, an individual can get the same level of satisfaction for less expenditure, provided it’s a normal good. In this case, the consumer can purchase more of the goods on a given budget. This is the income effect. The substitution effect is observed when consumers switch from more costly goods to substitutes that have fallen in price. As more people buy the good with the lower price, demand increases.



Sometimes, consumers buy more or less of a good or service due to factors other than price. This is referred to as a change in demand. A change in demand refers to a shift in the demand curve to the right or left following a change in consumers’ preferences, taste, income, etc. For example, a consumer who receives an income raise at work will have more disposable income to spend on goods in the markets, regardless of whether prices fall, leading to a shift to the right of the demand curve.






The law of demand is violated when dealing with Giffen or inferior goods. Giffen goods are inferior goods that people consume more of as prices rise, and vice versa. Since a Giffen good does not have easily available substitutes, the income effect dominates the substitution effect.


   Supply and Demand  

The law of supply and demand is an economic theory that explains how supply and demand are related to each other and how that relationship affects the price of goods and services. It's a fundamental economic principle that when supply exceeds demand for a good or service, prices fall. When demand exceeds supply, prices tend to rise.



There is an inverse relationship between the supply and prices of goods and services when demand is unchanged. If there is an increase in supply for goods and services while demand remains the same, prices tend to fall to a lower equilibrium price and a higher equilibrium quantity of goods and services. If there is a decrease in supply of goods and services while demand remains the same, prices tend to rise to a higher equilibrium price and a lower quantity of goods and services.



The same inverse relationship holds for the demand of goods and services. However, when demand increases and supply remains the same, the higher demand leads to a higher equilibrium price and vice versa.



Supply and demand rise and fall until an equilibrium price is reached. For example, suppose a luxury car company sets the price of its new car model at $200,000. While the initial demand may be high, due to the company hyping and creating buzz for the car, most consumers are not willing to spend $200,000 for an auto. As a result, the sales of the new model quickly fall, creating an oversupply and driving down demand for the car. In response, the company reduces the price of the car to $150,000 to balance the supply and the demand for the car to ultimately reach an equilibrium price.
What Is Dematerialization (DEMAT)?  

Dematerialization (DEMAT) is the move from physical certificates to electronic bookkeeping. Actual stock certificates are then removed and retired from circulation in exchange for electronic recording.





Key Takeaways

Dematerialization (DEMAT) is the move from physical certificates to electronic bookkeeping.DEMAT accounts are required by some trading institutions due to the fact they are the most accurate form of record keeping.Dematerialization was designed to offer more security, as well as increased speed, to financial trades. It has become the norm in bookkeeping for financial institutions.


   How Dematerialization Works  

With the age of computers and the Depository Trust Company, securities no longer need to be in certificate form. They can be registered and transferred electronically.






The introduction of dematerialization allowed for accounts to be updated automatically and swiftly.



In earlier eras, transactions at stock exchanges were conducted by traders who shouted buy and sell prices. The deals were recorded on paper receipts. After the markets closed, the paperwork would continue in order to properly register all the transactions.


   The Benefits of Dematerialization  

Through dematerialization, so-called DEMAT accounts allow for electronic transactions when shares of stock are bought and sold. Within a DEMAT account, the certificates for stocks and other securities of the user are held as a means for seamless trades to be made.



The introduction of dematerialization served to eliminate such a paper-oriented process. Furthermore, by adopting electronic bookkeeping, this allowed for accounts to be updated automatically and swiftly.



Dematerialization applies not only to stocks, but also to other forms of investment such as bonds, mutual funds, and government securities. The use of dematerialization and DEMAT accounts is comparable to using a bank and bank accounts to maintain one’s assets rather than personally storing and exchanging paper money each time a transaction is made.



Using a debit card at a store creates a digital record of purchase and the amount is deducted from the cardholder’s account. Funds are exchanged between buyers and sellers without paper currency. Likewise, with dematerialization, the stock transactions are completed without physical certificates.






Brokers or other intermediaries will typically retain the electronic records of the transactions associated with the assets.



If the holder of a physical, paper bond or other security wishes to dematerialize the document, they usually surrender the certificate with an intermediary. They should receive some sort of electronic notification that the record has been dematerialized and they may proceed with conducting transactions.



Some assets—for example, publicly traded shares—require a DEMAT account to engage in trades and other transactions. This is because markets now operate through electronic transactions rather recorded on paper.



The benefits of dematerialization can also include increased security and surety of transactions and the elimination of steps that could slow down the process of clearing transactions. Errors can be avoided that might otherwise be introduced in the handling of physical records. There might also be some savings by eliminating paperwork that may have included processing fees.
What Is Demographic Dividend?  

Demographic dividend refers to the growth in an economy that is the result of a change in the age structure of a country’s population. The change in age structure is typically brought on by a decline in fertility and mortality rates.


   Understanding Demographic Dividend  

While most countries have seen an improvement in child survival rates, birth rates remain high in many of them, particularly in lesser developed countries. These countries, therefore, rarely enjoy an economic benefit known as the demographic dividend.



Demographic dividends are occurrences in a country that enjoys accelerated economic growth that stems from the decline in fertility and mortality rates. A country that experiences low birth rates in conjunction with low death rates receives an economic dividend or benefit from the increase in productivity of the working population that ensues. As fewer births are registered, the number of young dependents grows smaller relative to the working population. With fewer people to support and more people in the labor force, an economy’s resources are freed up and invested in other areas to accelerate a country's economic development and the future prosperity of its populace.



To receive a demographic dividend, a country must go through a demographic transition where it switches from a largely rural agrarian economy with high fertility and mortality rates to an urban industrial society characterized by low fertility and mortality rates. In the initial stages of this transition, fertility rates fall, leading to a labor force that is temporarily growing faster than the population dependent on it. All else being equal, per capita income grows more rapidly during this time too. This economic benefit is the first dividend received by a country that has gone through the demographic transition.






A decline in fertility and mortality rates boosts working population productivity, which leads to a demographic dividend.


   Types of Demographic Dividend  

The first dividend period generally lasts for a long time—typically five decades or more. Eventually, however, the reduced birth rate reduces labor force growth. Meanwhile, improvements in medicine and better health practices lead to an ever-expanding elderly population, sapping additional income and putting an end to the demographic dividend. At this stage, all else being equal, per capita income grows at a decelerated rate and the first demographic dividend becomes negative.



An older working population facing an extended retirement period has a powerful incentive to accumulate assets to support themselves. These assets are usually invested in both domestic and international investment vehicles, adding to a country's national income. The increase in national income is referred to as the second dividend which continues to be earned indefinitely.



The benefits gotten from a demographic transition is neither automatic nor guaranteed. Any demographic dividend depends on whether the government implements the right policies in areas such as education, health, governance, and the economy. In addition, the amount of demographic dividend that a country receives depends on the level of productivity of young adults which, in turn, depends on the level of schooling, employment practices in a country, timing, and frequency of childbearing, as well as economic policies that make it easier for young parents to work. The dividend amount is also tied to the productivity of older adults which depends on tax incentives, health programs, and pension and retirement policies.



There are four main areas where a country can find demographic dividends:



Savings—During the demographic period, personal savings grow and can be used to stimulate the economy.
Labor supply—More workers are added to the labor force, including more women.
Human capital—With fewer births, parents are able to allocate more resources per child, leading to better educational and health outcomes.
Economic growth—GDP per capita is increased due to a decrease in the dependency ratio.





Key Takeaways

Demographic dividend is economic growth brought on by a change in the structure of a country’s population, usually a result of a fall in fertility and mortality rates.The demographic dividend comes as there’s an increase in the working population's productivity, which boosts per capita income.The first period for a demographic dividend can last 50 or more years and then the second period can last indefinitely as an aging population invests in various investment vehicles.Demographic dividends can be found with savings, labor supply, human capital, and economic growth.
What Are Demographics?  

Demographics are statistics that describe populations and their characteristics. Demographic analysis is the study of a population-based on factors such as age, race, and sex. Demographic data refers to socioeconomic information expressed statistically, including employment, education, income, marriage rates, birth and death rates, and more.



Governments, corporations, and non-government organizations use demographics to learn more about a population's characteristics for many purposes, including policy development and economic market research. For example, a company that sells high-end RVs may want to reach people nearing or at retirement age and the percentage of those who can afford their products.





Key Takeaways

Demographic analysis is the collection and analysis of broad characteristics about groups of people and populations.Demographic data is very useful for businesses to understand how to market to consumers and plan strategically for future trends in consumer demand.The combination of the internet, big data, and artificial intelligence is greatly amplifying the usefulness and application of demographics as a tool for marketing and business strategy.Market segments are often grouped by age or generation. Demographic information can be used in many ways to learn more about the generalities of a particular population. 












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Demographics  

Demographic analysis is the collection and study of data regarding the general characteristics of specific populations. It is frequently used as a business marketing tool to determine the best way to reach customers and assess their behavior. Segmenting a population by using demographics allows companies to determine the size of a potential market.



The use of demographics helps determine whether its products and services are being targeted to that company's most influential consumers. For example, market segments may identify a particular age group, such as baby boomers (born 1946–1964) or millennials (born 1981–1996), with specific buying patterns and characteristics.



The advent of the internet, social media, predictive algorithms, and big data has dramatic implications for collecting and using demographic information. Modern consumers give out a flood of data, sometimes unwittingly, collected and tracked through their online and offline lives by myriad apps, social media platforms, third-party data collectors, retailers, and financial transaction processors.



Combined with the growing field of artificial intelligence, this mountain of collected data can be used to predict and target consumer choices and buying preferences with uncanny accuracy based on their demographic characteristics and past behavior.


   Types of Demographic Information  

For corporate marketing goals, demographic data is collected to build a customer base profile. The common variables gathered in demographic research include age, sex, income level, race, employment, location, homeownership, and level of education. Demographical information makes certain generalizations about groups to identify customers.



Additional demographic factors include gathering data on preferences, hobbies, lifestyle, and more. Governmental agencies collect data when conducting a national census and may use that demographic data to forecast economic patterns and population growth to better manage resources.






You can gather demographic information on a large group and then break it down into smaller subsets for deeper dive into your research.


   Special Considerations  

Most large companies conduct demographic research to determine how to market their product or service and best market to the target audience. It is valuable to know the current customer and where the potential customer may come from in the future. Demographic trends are also significant since the size of different demographic groups changes over time due to economic, cultural, and political circumstances.



This information helps the company decide how much capital to allocate to production and advertising. For example, the aging U.S. population has specific needs that companies want to anticipate. Each market segment can be analyzed for its consumer spending patterns. Older demographic groups spend more on healthcare products and pharmaceuticals, and communicating with these customers differs from that of their younger counterparts.




Why Do Demographics Matter?
Demographics refers to the description or distribution of characteristics of some target audience, customer base, or population. Governments use socioeconomic information to understand the age, racial makeup, and income distribution (among several other variables) in neighborhoods, cities, states, and nations in order to make better public policy decisions.Companies look to demographics to craft more effective marketing and advertising campaigns and to understand patterns among different audiences.




Who Collects Demographic Data?
The U.S. Census Bureau collects demographic data on the American population every year through the American Community Survey (ACS) and every 10-years via an in-depth count of every American household. Companies use marketing departments or outsource to specialized marketing firms to collect demographics on users, customers, or prospective client groups. Academic researchers also collect demographic data for research purposes using various survey instruments. Political parties and campaigns also collect demographics in order to target messaging for political candidates.




Why Do Businesses Need Demographics?
Demographics are key to businesses today. They help identify the individual members of an audience by selecting key characteristics, wants, and needs. This allows companies to tailor their efforts based on particular segments of their customer base. Online advertising and marketing have made enormous headway over the past decade in using algorithms and big data analysis to micro-target ads on social media to very specific demographics.




How Are Demographic Changes Important for Economists?
Economists recognize that one of the major drivers of economic growth is population growth. There is a straightforward relationship when identifying this: Growth Rate of gross domestic product (GDP)=Growth Rate of Population+Growth Rate of GDP per capita, where GDP per capita is simply GDP divided by population. The more people around, the more available workers there are in the labor force, and also more people to consume items like food, energy, cars, and clothes. There are also demographic problems that lie on the horizon, such as an increasing number of retirees who, while no longer in the workforce, are nonetheless expected to live longer lives. Unfortunately, the number of new births seems to be too low to replace those retirees in the workforce.


   The Bottom Line  

Demographics and demographic analysis is used to describe the distribution of characteristics in a society or other population in order to understand them, make policy recommendations, and make predictions about where a society or group is headed in the future. Demographic data can come in many forms, but most often describes the distribution of characteristics found in populations such as age, sex/gender, marital status, household structure, income, wealth, education, religion, and so on - and to see how these are changing over time. Birth and death rates are also used to understand if a population is growing or not, and how this might affect things like economic growth, employment, government programs like social security, and so on.
What Is Demonetization?  

Demonetization is the act of stripping a currency unit of its status as legal tender. It occurs whenever there is a change in national currency. The current form or forms of money is pulled from circulation and retired, often to be replaced with new notes or coins. Sometimes, a country completely replaces the old currency with a new currency.





Key Takeaways

Demonetization is a drastic intervention into the economy that involves removing the legal tender status of a currency.Demonetization can cause chaos or a serious downturn in an economy if it goes wrong.Demonetization has been used as a tool to stabilize the currency and fight inflation, facilitate trade and access to markets, and push informal economic activity into more transparency and away from black and gray markets.A famous example of demonetization occurred in 2016 when India demonetized 86% of its nation's currency.Demonetized may also refer to social media or digital content that formerly qualified for revenue distribution but has since been denied income proceeds.


   Understanding Demonetization  

Removing the legal tender status of a unit of currency is a drastic intervention into an economy because it directly affects the medium of exchange used in all economic transactions. It can help stabilize existing problems, or it can cause chaos in an economy, especially if undertaken suddenly or without warning. That said, demonetization is undertaken by nations for a number of reasons.



Demonetization has been used to stabilize the value of a currency or combat inflation. The Coinage Act of 1873 demonetized silver as the legal tender of the United States, in favor of fully adopting the gold standard, in order to stave off disruptive inflation as large new silver deposits were discovered in the American West. Several coins, including a two-cent piece, three-cent piece, and half-dime were discontinued.



The withdrawal of silver from the economy resulted in a contraction of the money supply, which contributed to a recession throughout the country. In response to the recession and political pressure from farmers and from silver miners and refiners, the Bland-Allison Act remonetized silver as legal tender in 1878.



In a more modern example, the Zimbabwean government demonetized its dollar in 2015 as a way to combat the country’s hyperinflation. At its peak, Zimbabwe's hyperinflation reached month-over-month growth of 79.6 million percent growth and year-over-year growth of 89.7 sextillion percent. The three-month process involved expunging the Zimbabwean dollar from the country’s financial system and solidifying the U.S. dollar, the Botswana pula, and the South African rand as the country’s legal tender in a bid to stabilize the economy.



Some countries have demonetized currencies in order to facilitate trade or form currency unions. An example of demonetization for trade purposes occurred when the nations of the European Union officially began to use the euro as their everyday currencies in 2002. When the physical euro bills and coins were introduced, the old national currencies, such as the German mark, the French franc, and the Italian lira were demonetized. However, these varied currencies remained convertible into Euros at fixed exchange rates for a while to assure a smooth transition.






The opposite of demonetization is remonetization, in which a form of payment is restored as legal tender.


   Pros and Cons of Demonetization  

There are several advantages when a nation demonetizes its currency. Fraudulent financial practices may be minimized as individuals will be unable to exchange illegal tender with banks. This also includes the potential reduction in tax evasion, pumping additional revenue into a nation's economy.



Demonetizing physical paper tender also demonstrates an advancing banking system, as digital currency can be more accessible, safer to store, and easier to transfer ownership. Organized industries and companies often benefit the greatest due to an easier transition.



Demonetization isn't without its faults. It's inconvenient for the nation's citizens and may be confusing when only select denominations are phased out over time. As a result of the disturbance, a nation's economy may temporarily experience a period of stalled growth in the short-term as the demonetization process occurs.



There are costly logistical measures to be taken as well. ATMs and other means of disbursing cash must be modified and recoded. Consumer prices must be reframed to ensure proper change can be given if needed. Daily wage earners—often among the poorest with no to minimal savings—may continue to be paid in defunct tender and must miss work to exchange their earnings with a bank.




Demonetization

Pros

Often results in decreased tax evasion and increased tax revenue
Ofte nresults in higher long-term GDP due to higher tax revenue being reinvested in the nation
Fosters innovation by converting currency to digital currency and promoting digital transactions
Reduces overall crime by enhancing transparency and discouraging the circulation of black money.



Cons

Imposes a burden on citizens, especially those who must convert one currency to another
Likely stalls a nation's GDP during the conversion process
Incurs expensive administrative costs including printing, adjusting ATMs, and marketing the changes.
Negatively impacts and even stops cash-driven sectors
Introduces new types of currency risk such as cybercrime





   Demonetization Example in India  

Lastly, demonetization has been tried as a tool to modernize a cash-dependent developing economy and to combat corruption and crime (counterfeiting, tax evasion). In 2016, the Indian government decided to demonetize the 500- and 1000- rupee notes, the two biggest denominations in its currency system; these notes accounted for 86% of the country’s circulating cash.



With little warning, India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced to the citizenry on Nov. 8, 2016, that those notes were worthless, effective immediately—and they had until the end of the year to deposit or exchange them for newly introduced 2000 rupee and 500 rupee bills.





Indian Rupee: Value in Dollars



Chaos ensued in the cash-dependent economy (some 78% of all Indian customer transactions are in cash), as long, snaking lines formed outside ATMs and banks, which had to shut down for a day. The new rupee notes have different specifications, including size and thickness, requiring re-calibration of ATMs: only 60% of the country’s 200,000 ATMs were operational. Even those dispensing bills of lower denominations faced shortages. The government’s restriction on daily withdrawal amounts added to the misery, though a waiver on transaction fees did help a bit. Severe cash shortages were recurring even through 2018.



Small businesses and households struggled to find cash and reports of daily wage workers not receiving their dues surfaced. The rupee fell sharply against the dollar. 



The government’s goal (and rationale for the abrupt announcement) was to combat India's thriving underground economy on several fronts: eradicate counterfeit currency, fight tax evasion (only 1% of the population pays taxes), eliminate black money gained from money laundering, and terrorist financing activities, and to promote a cashless economy.



Individuals and entities with huge sums of black money gotten from parallel cash systems were forced to take their large-denomination notes to a bank, which was by law required to acquire tax information on them. If the owner could not provide proof of making any tax payments on the cash, a penalty of 200% of the owed amount was imposed.


   Other Uses of Demonetization  

Demonetization can also refer to the business practice of denying payment and is often experienced related to social media. Demonetization happens when a platform's content creator used to receive payment but due to underlying changes in the platform are no longer eligible. This may occur due to a terms and conditions violation or due to changes in the platform's algorithms that determine which creators are eligible to earn revenue.



Although used in an entirely different context, this form of demonetization is similar to the form of discontinuing legal tender. For both, an asset once held value but due to underlying changes in the nature of the asset, it no longer holds any monetary value.




Why Would a Country Demonetize?
Demonetization has been used to stabilize the value of a currency or combat inflation. Some countries have demonetized currencies in order to facilitate trade or form currency unions. Lastly, demonetization has been tried as a tool to modernize a cash-dependent developing economy and to combat corruption and crime (counterfeiting, tax evasion). 




What Are the Advantages of Demonetization?
The main benefit of demonetization is to curtail criminal activity as their supply of money is no longer legal tender. This affects counterfeiters as well as they cannot exchange their "merchandise" for fear of discovery. It can prevent tax evasion as those who were evading taxes must come forward to exchange their existing currency at which time the authorities can retroactively tax them. Finally, it can usher in the digital currency age by slowing down the circulation of physical currency.




What Are the Disadvantages of Demonetization?
The chief disadvantage is the costs involved in printing and minting the new currency. Also, demonetization may not have the intended effect of reducing criminal activity as these entities might be savvy enough to hold assets in other forms other than physical currency. Finally, this process is risky as it can plunge the nation into utter chaos if not handled with the utmost of competence.




How Does Demonetization Impact GDP?
In the short-term, demonetization usually stunts economic growth and causes GDP to decline. During the conversion process, many industries and sectors may temporarily come to a halt. Some industries may not be able to pay laborers as the demonetization process occurs.Once demonetization is finished, it often creates long-term economic benefits that increase GDP in the long run. Demonetization attempts to fight financial crime; by making transactions more transparent or discouraging the trade of illegal bills, a government is usually able to collect more tax revenue and invest heavier into their country.
What Is Demutualization?  

Demutualization is a process by which a private, member-owned company, such as a co-op, or a mutual life insurance company, legally changes its structure, in order to become a public-traded company owned by shareholders.





Key Takeaways

Demutualization occurs when a company structured as a mutual company transitions to a stockholder corporation.The most common place that demutualization happens is among companies in the life insurance sector.Several methods exist for demutualization, but in all cases, policyholder customers are replaced as owners by shareholder investors.


   Understanding Demutualization  

Demutualization involves the complex process of transitioning a company’s financial structure, from a mutual company into a shareholder-driven model. Mutual companies (not to be confused with mutual funds) are entities seeded by private investors who are also customers or members of these operations. Businesses such as insurance companies, savings and loan associations, banking trusts, and credit unions are commonly structured as mutual companies.



Mutual insurance companies typically collect policyholder premiums from their members and spread risk and profits through various mechanisms. In America, this practice dates back to 1716, when the nation's first-ever insurance company was created by the Synod of Philadelphia, which structured the operation as a mutual company.



In 2000 and 2001, a flurry of noteworthy demutualization events occurred in the insurance space, with the demutualization of Prudential Insurance Company, Sun Life Assurance Company, Phoenix Home Life Mutual Insurance Company, Principal Life Insurance Company, and the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife).


   The Demutualization Process  

In a demutualization, a mutual company elects to change its corporate structure to a public company, where prior members may receive a structured compensation or ownership conversion rights in the transition, in the form of shares in the company.



Several demutualization methodologies exist. In a "full demutualization," a company launches an initial public offering (IPO), where it auctions stock to shareholders, who may trade their equity positions over a public market exchange. Under this scenario, the former members of the mutual company do not automatically receive stock, and must consequently invest separately.



Alternatively, with the “sponsored demutualization” method, after the IPO, former members of the mutual company automatically receive shares in the newly-formed company. Under this model, members typically receive greater compensation for their previous membership and, generally, don’t have to invest personal capital in the newly-issued shares. However, they may buy additional shares, if they choose.



When a demutualization occurs, former members may still utilize the products and services as they did before, however, prices and other terms of the transactions may change.
What Is a Denomination?  

A denomination refers to the units classification for the stated or face value of financial instruments such as currency notes or coins, as well as for securities, bonds, and other investments.



The denomination can therefore be used to quote the base currency in a forex transaction, or the quoted currency in a financial asset. This use of the term helps define the acceptable payment in trades and the monetary unit in which it is priced, for example when indicating U.S. dollar-denominated bonds issued by a foreign government.





Key Takeaways

A denomination defines the monetary unit with which assets, securities, and transactions are priced in.Often, the denomination will refer to the face value of the instrument, for instance based on the bond's par value denominated in U.S. dollars.Collectible currencies will at times, have a market value that is higher than the face value denomination, such as an old penny today worth several hundred dollars.


   Understanding Denomination  

Most often, a denomination is a unit of value, or numeraire, given to money or currencies like coins and notes, as well as other financial instruments that maintain set values, such as government-issued bonds. The denomination value of such a fixed-income security is often referred to as its “face value” because it appears on the front, or face, of the financial instrument.



In the United States, currency notes dispensed by most automated teller machines (ATMs) are only available in certain denominations. As an example, some ATMs offer $20 bills and $100 bills, while others might provide $10 and $50 notes. In a trade transaction, an exporter based in Europe may invoice the buyer in U.S. dollars, making the transaction U.S. dollar-denominated. While most commodities were quoted in terms of the dollar, beginning in 2011, commodities such as crude oil could receive quotes in other currency denominations, such as the euro.



Some foreign entities will issue securities denominated in a different currency from their own. For instance, the government of Argentina has issued U.S.-dollar denominated sovereign debt, and certain non-U.S. corporations issue shares denominated in dollars.


   Par Values as Denominations  

The denomination affixed to a bond or other fixed-income investment is equal to the bond's par value, which is the amount paid upon maturity. One may purchase bonds in a variety of denominations, ranging from $50 to $10,000. When one buys a mutual bond, it is sold for an amount below the marked denomination because the difference between the sales price and the value at maturity serves a function similar to the interest earned in other investment vehicles.



Other types of securities are also issued with par values; however, the actual par value on a share of stock, for instance, is not an accurate assessment of the security's importance in the marketplace. The par value here instead represents a minimum value for the holding. When issuing common stock, corporations actually issue them with a face value as little as zero or one cent. This pricing convention allows them to avoid legal liabilities they may expose themselves to if they listed the stock at a higher price.


   Denominations and Nomenclature  

Nomenclature is the act of applying a name to an item, and many currencies carry not only the official denomination but also a nickname. As an example, the Canadian dollar (CAD) carries the nickname of the "loonie" because it has the image of a loon bird on one side. The American $100 bill is known as a "Benjamin" because it carries the picture of Benjamin Franklin.


   Real World Example  

Some individual pieces of currency have a higher retail market value than their officially marked denomination. These currencies are collectible and sought after by hobbyists and those looking for an alternative investment.



For example, some U.S. quarters produced between 1932 and 1964 comprised 90% silver content. Consequently, although the face value maintains their worth at 25 cents, the market value may be higher, based on the price of silver, the melt value of silver, the condition of a specific coin, and the date and mint involved. This difference between the denomination and the melt value ultimately led to a change in the materials used to produce quarters.
What Is the Dependency Ratio?  

The dependency ratio is a measure of the number of dependents aged zero to 14 and over the age of 65, compared with the total population aged 15 to 64. This demographic indicator gives insight into the number of people of non-working age, compared with the number of those of working age.



It is also used to understand the relative economic burden of the workforce and has ramifications for taxation. The dependency ratio is also referred to as the total or youth dependency ratio.





Key Takeaways

The dependency ratio is a demographic measure of the ratio of the number of dependents to the total working-age population in a country or region.This indicator paints a picture of the make-up of a population compared to its workforce and can shed light on the tax implications of dependency.As the overall age of the population rises, the ratio can be shifted to reflect the increased needs associated with an aging population.


   Formula for the Dependency Ratio  

﻿




Dependency Ratio


=




#


 Dependents




Population Aged 15 to 64




⋅


1


0


0



\text{Dependency Ratio} = \frac{\# \text{ Dependents}}{\text{Population Aged 15 to 64}} \cdot 100


Dependency Ratio=Population Aged 15 to 64# Dependents​⋅100﻿


   What Does the Dependency Ratio Tell You?  

A high dependency ratio means those of working age, and the overall economy, face a greater burden in supporting the aging population. The youth dependency ratio includes those only under 15, and the elderly dependency ratio focuses on those over 64.



The dependency ratio focuses on separating those of working age, deemed between the ages of 15 and 64 years of age, from those of non-working age. This also provides an accounting of those who have the potential to earn their own income and who are most likely to not earn their own income.



Various employment regulations make it unlikely that individuals less than 15 years old would get employed for any personal income. A person who turns 64 years old is generally considered to be of normal retirement age and is not necessarily expected to be part of the workforce. It is the lack of income potential that generally qualifies those under 15 and over 64 as dependents as it is often necessary for them to receive outside support to meet their needs.


   An Analysis of Dependency Ratios  

Dependency ratios are generally reviewed to compare the percentage of the total population, classified as working age, that will support the rest of the non-working age population. This provides an overview for economists to track shifts in the population.



As the percentage of non-working citizens rises, those who are working are likely subject to increased taxes to compensate for the larger dependent population.



At times, the dependency ratio is adjusted to reflect a more accurate dependency. This is due to the fact those over 64 often require more government assistance than dependents under the age of 15. As the overall age of the population rises, the ratio can be shifted to reflect the increased needs associated with an aging population.


   Example of the Dependency Ratio  

For example, assume that the mythical country of Investopedialand has a population of 1,000 people, and there are 250 children under the age of 15, 500 people between the ages of 15 and 64, and 250 people aged 65 and older. The youth dependency ratio is 50%, or 250/500.


   Limitations of the Dependency Ratio  

The dependency ratio only considers age when determining whether a person is economically active. Other factors may determine if a person is economically active aside from age, including status as a student, illness or disability, stay-at-home parents, early retirement, and the long-term unemployed. Additionally, some people choose to continue working beyond age 64.




What Is a Good Dependency Ratio?
A good dependency ratio is a low dependency ratio. A low dependency ratio indicates that there is a sufficient number of people in the workforce that can support the dependent population. Lower dependency ratios typically signify better healthcare for aging adults as well as higher pensions. A high dependency ratio, on the other hand, indicates stress on the economy as the dependent population is too large to be supported by the workforce.




Which Country Has the Lowest Dependency Ratio?
As of 2021, the country with the lowest dependency ratio is Qatar, with a ratio of 18.38. The country with the highest dependency ratio at 108.92, is Niger. The United States has a dependency ratio of 54.52.




What Affects the Dependency Ratio?
Age is the primary factor that affects the dependency ratio, as that determines who is and is not included in the workforce. The demographics of a nation, however, are affected by a variety of factors, such as birth rates, immigration policies, and other government policies (such as China's previous one-child policy). If a country can attract foreign workers, it will help grow the workforce, similarly, if the birth rate is high, then there will be enough individuals to replace the portion of the workforce that retires. These factors would help lower the dependency ratio.


   The Bottom Line  

The dependency ratio is a demographic indicator that measures the number of dependents aged zero to 14 and over the age of 65, compared with the total population aged 15 to 64. It is analyzed to determine the people of working age versus those of non-working age, which aids in understanding taxation, which in turn impacts the government's revenue and, therefore, various aspects of the nation.



A lower dependency ratio is ideal as it signifies less of a burden on the workforce in supporting those who are not working.
What Are Dependent Care Benefits?  

Dependent care benefits are provided by an employer to an employee for use in caring for dependents, such as young children or disabled family members. Dependent care benefits may include flexible spending accounts (FSAs), paid leave, and certain tax credits and can be worth thousands of dollars to eligible participants.





Key Takeaways

Dependent care benefits include tax credits and employee benefits, such as daycare allowances, for the care of their dependents.The IRS provides a child and dependent care tax credit to eligible taxpayers who paid child or dependent care expenses for the tax year.Eligible employees can allocate a portion of their pay to be put into a special flexible spending account to later be reimbursed for qualifying out-of-pocket dependent care expenses.Paid leave is another benefit available to certain employees who take time away from work to care for a dependent.


   How Dependent Care Benefits Work  

Dependents, according to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), are treated as an exemption credit that may be claimed on an annual tax return. On its own, the dependent credit can reduce a filer's taxable income by thousands of dollars. Children are the most commonly claimed dependent, though dependent care benefits may be extended to cover a variety of people, provided they meet several stipulations. For example, dependents may also be relatives, roommates, or even romantic partners. The IRS provides a guide on who may be claimed as a dependent.



Dependent care benefits are available to individuals whose children are cared for by a daycare facility or provider. Such benefits may take the form of childcare tax credits or a dependent care flexible spending account (FSA). Each provides tax savings based on money spent on childcare.



Dependent care benefits are part of an overall employee benefits system administered by the IRS.


   Dependent Care Benefits: Flexible Spending Account  

A dependent care flexible spending account is available for individuals who care for a child or adult who is incapable of self-care, who lives in the taxpayer's home for at least eight hours each day, and who can be claimed as a dependent on an income tax return. These accounts allow individuals to pay for qualified child and dependent care expenses while lowering their taxable income.



This type of FSA is set up by an employer. Participants authorize their employer to withhold a specified amount from their paycheck each pay period and deposit the money in an account. Instead of using the FSA money to pay for expenses directly, those costs are paid out-of-pocket, and reimbursement must be applied for.


   Dependent Care Benefits: Child and Dependent Care Credit  

The child and dependent care credit is a tax credit available to taxpayers who paid for the care of their child, spouse, or dependent so they can work or look for work. The IRS maintains a comprehensive information page related to the child and dependent care credit, which includes eligibility and timing requirements, how much can be claimed, and information on which forms to complete. This tax credit (not a deduction) reduces the tax burden dollar for dollar.






The American Rescue Plan, signed by President Biden on March 11, 2021, includes generous tax breaks to low- and moderate-income people. Originally capped at 35% of eligible expenses up to $2,100, the child and dependent care credit is now capped at 50% of eligible expenses up to $4,000 for one qualifying individual and $8,000 for two or more for 2021. In addition, the credit is entirely refundable for 2021.


   Dependent Care Benefits: Paid Leave  

More and more employers are making paid family leave available to their workers. Nine states (California, Colorado, Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, and Washington) and the District of Columbia offer paid family and medical leave (PFML). Hawaii provides paid medical leave in the form of temporary disability insurance. Most workers are eligible for the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), which offers up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave per year to care for family members.
What Is a Dependent?  

A dependent is a person who relies on someone else for financial support and can include children or other relatives. Having a dependent entitles a taxpayer to claim a dependency exemption on their tax return as long as the dependent meets the qualifying definition according to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).



A taxpayer who can demonstrate that they have a dependent also may be able to use this filing status to qualify for certain tax credits.



Tests in the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) establish a person’s eligibility to be a taxpayer’s dependent for the purpose of dependency claims.





Key Takeaways

A dependent is a person who relies on someone else for financial support and can include children or other relatives.If you claim one or more dependents on your tax return, you may be eligible for certain tax credits.The amount of the Child Tax Credit is $2,000 per qualifying child, and it is partially refundable.Usually, any person who filed a joint return (as a married person) cannot be claimed as a dependent on anyone else's tax return.To be claimed as a dependent, a person must be a U.S. citizen, U.S. resident alien, U.S. national, or a resident of Canada or Mexico.


   How Does Dependency Work?  

A dependent may be a qualifying child or another qualifying relative. Dependency status is determined by IRC tests. To qualify for dependent status, three tests must be met for all dependents: the dependent taxpayer test, the joint return test, and the citizen or resident test.



Any person who may be claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer may not claim anyone as a dependent on their own tax return. Any person who filed a joint return (as a married person) cannot be claimed by anyone as a dependent on their tax return unless that dependent is filing a joint return only to claim a refund of tax that was withheld or paid as estimated taxes. Finally, to be claimed as a dependent, a person must be a U.S. citizen, U.S. resident immigrant, U.S. national, or a resident of Canada or Mexico.



If you are married and filing jointly, you and your spouse can both claim dependents and share any tax benefits. In the case of separate returns, whether you are married or not, only one taxpayer may claim a given dependent on their income tax return, which is particularly crucial in cases of dual custodial parents. Dependency claims of separated or divorced parents are resolved in favor of the custodial parent. In some cases, previously determined court decrees or a written declaration by the custodial parent may release the claim to the noncustodial parent.


   Types of Dependents  
  Qualifying Child  

Specific tests are used to determine if a dependent is a qualifying child or a qualifying relative. To meet the IRC relationship test—and be considered a qualifying child—the child must be:



The taxpayer’s son, daughter, stepchild, foster child (placed by an authorized placement agency), or a descendant (for example, a grandchild) of any of themThe taxpayer’s brother, sister, half-brother, half-sister, stepbrother, stepsister, or a descendant (for example, niece or nephew) of any of them



To meet the IRC age test, the child must be:



Under age 19 at the end of the tax year and younger than the taxpayer (or the taxpayer’s spouse if filing jointly)A full-time student under the age of 24 at the end of the year and younger than the taxpayer (or spouse, if filing jointly)



The resident and support tests are the final tests to determine if the individual qualifies as a qualifying child. To meet the resident test, the child must have lived with the taxpayer for more than half of the year; however, there are exceptions to this rule.



For example, if the child or the taxpayer is temporarily absent due to illness, education, business, vacation, military service, institutionalized care for a child who is permanently and totally disabled, or incarceration, then the child is still considered part of the residence (living with the taxpayer) during this time.



The support test requires that the child cannot have provided more than half of their own financial support during the tax year.



You may be eligible to file as head of household even if the child who is your qualifying person has been kidnapped. This treatment applies for all years until the year when there is a determination that the child is no longer alive or the year when the child would have reached age 18 (whichever is earlier).


  Qualifying Relative  

If these tests are not met, the taxpayer may decide to see if the tests for a qualifying relative are met. These tests are slightly different and are applied only when the tests for a qualifying child are not met. Unlike a qualifying child, a qualifying relative can be any age.



A qualifying relative must meet the “not a qualifying child” test, the member of household or relationship test, the gross income test, and the support test. In addition, a child cannot be a taxpayer’s qualifying relative if the child is the taxpayer’s qualifying child (or is the qualifying child of any other taxpayer).



To meet the member of household or relationship test, the person either must live as a member of the taxpayer’s household all year or be related to the taxpayer. It is important to note that an adopted child is treated the same as a natural child and that any relationships established by marriage are not ended by death or divorce.



To meet the gross income test, the dependent’s gross income for the tax year must be less than the threshold amount. This amount changes every year. For the 2022 tax year (the tax return filed in 2023), it is $4,400; it increases to $4,700 for 2023.






The deduction for personal and dependency exemptions is suspended until 2025. Although the exemption amount is zero, the ability to claim a dependent may make you eligible for other tax benefits.



Finally, to meet the support test, the taxpayer must have provided more than 50% of the person’s total support for the tax year. (This support test should be differentiated from the one for a qualifying child, which tests whether the child provided more than half of their own support for the year.)


   Dependent Tax Considerations  

Both being a dependent and having a dependent can impact your tax return, tax credits, and deductions.


  Tax Credits for Dependents  

If the IRC tests determine that you are a dependent, then you may be eligible for certain tax credits and deductions on your own tax return.


  Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC)  

The Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) is a refundable tax credit for low- to moderate-income working individuals and couples, particularly those with children. The amount of EITC benefit a taxpayer receives depends on income and the number of children in their household.



The EITC is:



$560 in 2022 (the tax return filed in 2023) for childless households, increasing to $600 in 2023$3,733 in 2022 for one child, increasing to $3,995 in 2023$6,164 in 2022 for two children, increasing to $6,604 in 2023$6,935 in 2022 for three or more children, increasing to $7,430 in 2023


  Child Tax Credit (CTC)  

For 2022, taxpayers can claim a Child Tax Credit (CTC) of up to $2,000 for each child under age 18 if a taxpayer's income is not more than $200,000 (or $400,000 if married filing jointly. If the credit exceeds the total taxes owed, taxpayers will receive up to $1,500 (2022) or $1,600 (2023) of the balance as a refund.


  Child and Dependent Care Credit  

You may be able to claim the child and dependent care credit if you paid expenses for the care of a qualifying individual to enable you (and your spouse, if filing a joint return) to work or actively look for work. The amount you receive is a percentage of the work-related expenses you paid to a provider for the care of a qualifying individual, and the percentage depends on your AGI.



The credit is capped at 50% of eligible expenses (for those that make less than $125,000 per year) up to $3,000 for one qualifying individual and $6,000 for two or more qualifying individuals.


  Education Credits  

The two education credits are the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) and the lifetime learning credit (LLC). If the taxpayer has a dependent who attends a higher education institution, then the taxpayer will be eligible to claim the education credits associated with the dependent.



The AOTC is a credit for qualified education expenses paid for an eligible student for the first four years of higher education. The LLC is for qualified tuition and related expenses paid for eligible students enrolled in an eligible educational institution.




What Is a Dependent Person?
A dependent is an individual that relies on another person for support, most often financial support. A dependent can be a child, a relative, or any other individual who cannot take care of themselves and relies on another person.




What Is a Dependent for Tax Purposes?
A dependent, for tax purposes, is a qualifying child or relative of the taxpayer as laid out by the IRS. This includes a child, parent, sibling, or stepchild, but not a spouse. There are tax benefits a taxpayer can claim for having a dependent.




How Much Is the Tax Credit for Each Dependent?
In 2023, the child tax credit for each dependent is $2,000, with a maximum refundable amount of $1,600, up from $1,500 in 2022.


   The Bottom Line  

A dependent is someone who relies on another individual for support, usually a child or other relative who is unable to take care of themselves. For tax purposes, dependents must meet certain qualifying tests: the dependent taxpayer test, the joint return test, and the citizen or resident test.



Having qualifying dependents can make you eligible for certain tax benefits, including Child Tax Credit, the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit, and certain educational credits. How many dependents you have can also affect the Earned Income Tax Credit you are eligible for.
What is Depletion?  

Depletion is an accrual accounting technique used to allocate the cost of extracting natural resources such as timber, minerals, and oil from the earth. 



Like depreciation and amortization, depletion is a non-cash expense that lowers the cost value of an asset incrementally through scheduled charges to income. Where depletion differs is that it refers to the gradual exhaustion of natural resource reserves, as opposed to the wearing out of depreciable assets or aging life of intangibles.


   How Depletion Works  

Depletion for accounting and financial reporting purposes is meant to assist in accurately identifying the value of the assets on the balance sheet and recording expenses in the appropriate time period on the income statement.



When the costs associated with natural resource extraction have been capitalized, the expenses are systematically allocated across different time periods based upon the resources extracted. The costs are held on the balance sheet until expense recognition occurs.





Key Takeaways

Depletion is an accrual accounting method used to allocate the cost of extracting natural resources such as timber, minerals, and oil from the earth.When the costs associated with natural resource extraction have been capitalized, the expenses are systematically allocated across different time periods based upon the resources extracted.There are two basic forms of depletion allowance: percentage depletion and cost depletion.


   Recording Depletion  

To calculate what expenses need to be spread out for the use of natural resources, each different phase of production must be taken into consideration. The depletion base is the capitalized costs depleted across multiple accounting periods. There are four main factors that affect the depletion base:



Acquisition: Costs associated with purchasing or leasing the property rights to land that the company believes has natural resources.Exploration: Expenses linked to digging under the land that was leased or bought.Development: The costs necessary to prepare the land for natural resource extraction, such as tunneling or developing wells.Restoration: Expenses associated with restoring the land to its original condition after completion.


   Percentage Depletion Method  

One method of calculating depletion expense is the percentage depletion method. It assigns a fixed percentage to gross revenue—sales minus costs—to allocate expenses. For example, if $10 million of oil is extracted and the fixed percentage is 15%, $1.5 million of capitalized costs to extract the natural resource are depleted.



The percentage depletion method requires a lot of estimates and is, therefore, not a heavily relied upon or accepted method of depletion.


   Cost Depletion Method  

The second method of calculating depletion is the cost depletion method. Cost depletion is calculated by taking the property's basis, total recoverable reserves and number of units sold into account. The property’s basis is distributed among the total number of recoverable units. As natural resources are extracted, they are counted and taken out from the property’s basis.



For example, the capitalized costs of $1 million yields 500,000 barrels of oil. In the first year, if 100,000 barrels of oil are extracted, the depletion expense for the period is $200,000 (100,000 barrels * ($1,000,000 / 500,000 barrels)


   Reporting Requirements  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requires the cost method to be used with timber.﻿﻿﻿ It requires the method that yields the highest deduction to be used with mineral property, which it defines as oil and gas wells, mines, and other natural deposits, including geothermal deposits.﻿﻿﻿



Because the percentage depletion looks at the property's gross income and taxable income limit, as opposed to the amount of the natural resource extracted, it is not an acceptable reporting method for certain natural resources.
A deposit is money held in a bank account or with another financial institution that requires a transfer from one party to another. A deposit can can also be the amount of money used as security or collateral for delivery of goods or services.





Key Takeaways

A deposit generally refers to money held in a bank account.A deposit can also be the funds used as security or collateral for the delivery of goods or services.A demand deposit account is essentially a checking account in which you can withdraw funds at any time. A time deposit account usually requires that you hold your funds in the account a certain amount of time or face a fee for withdrawal.


   How a Deposit Works  

A deposit is essentially your money that you transfer to another party, such as when you move funds into a checking account at a bank or credit union.



In the case of depositing money into a bank account, you can withdraw the money at any time, transfer it to another person’s account, or use it to make purchases.



Often, you must deposit a certain amount of money, called the "minimum deposit," to open a new bank account. Depositing money into a checking account qualifies as a transaction deposit, which means that the funds are immediately available and liquid, and you can withdraw them without delays.



The other definition of deposit is when a portion of funds is used as a security or collateral for the delivery of a good. Some contracts require a percentage of funds paid before the delivery as an act of good faith. For example, brokerage firms often require traders to make an initial margin deposit to enter into a new futures contract.






When you deposit money into some bank accounts, it can earn interest. This means that, at fixed intervals, a small percentage of the account’s total is added to the amount of money already in the account. Interest can compound at different rates and frequencies, depending on the terms of the bank.


   Types of Deposits   

There are two main types of deposits: demand and time.



Demand deposit: A demand deposit is a conventional bank and savings account. You can withdraw the money anytime from a demand deposit account without advance notice. 
Time deposits: Time deposits are those with a fixed time and usually pay a fixed interest rate, like a certificate of deposit (CD). These interest-earning accounts offer higher rates than savings accounts. However, time deposit accounts require that money be kept in the account for a set period of time. 


   Example of a Deposit   

Deposits are often required on many large purchases, such as real estate or vehicles, for which sellers require payment plans. Financing companies typically set these deposits at a certain percentage of the full purchase price. A down payment on a home is essentially a deposit.



You may have to pay a deposit in many rental scenarios, whether your are renting an apartment, car, or another product. The deposit is called the security deposit. A security deposit’s function is to cover any costs associated with any potential damage done to the property or asset rented during the rental period. A partial or a total refund is applied after the property or the asset is verified at the end of the rental period.


   FAQs  


Does Every Deposit Made to a Bank Earn Interest?
Not all deposits to bank account earn interest. Interest is determined by the terms of the account. Many checking accounts do not provide interest, while most savings accounts and certificates of deposit (CDs) do.




Can I Make a Deposit Using a Check From Another Bank?
You can make a deposit with a check from one bank to another. Most banks will take deposits in the form of cash, checks, money orders, or cashier’s checks. If you’re using a check to open an account, there may be a holding period as the new bank ensures the check will clear.




When I Place a Deposit for Goods or Services, Do I Get the Money Back?
This depends on your agreement. In many rental agreements, a security deposit is held to ensure that there is no damage to a property. This may also be the case in renting equipment. The deposit may be returned if the item or space is returned in the same condition. For other items, a deposit may be used a partial payment on the balance due.


   The Bottom Line  

A deposit in finance is typically when you transfer money to a bank account like a checking account for safekeeping. However, it can have other meanings as well. For example, you may need to place a deposit, or a certain amount of money, with a business to secure goods or services such as for a rental.
What Does Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian Mean?  

Deposit/withdrawal at custodian (DWAC) is a method of electronically transferring new shares or paper share certificates to and from the Depository Trust Company (DTC) using a Fast Automated Securities Transfer (FAST) service transfer agent as the distribution point. The DWAC is one of two ways of transferring between broker/dealers and the DTC, the other being the Direct Registry System (DRS) method. Both enable investors to hold securities in registered form on the books of the transfer agent, rather than in physical form. DRS is different from DWAC in that shares in DRS have already been issued and are held electronically on the books of the transfer agent.


   Understanding Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian (DWAC)  

The DWAC process offers a number of benefits to investors, including time, cost savings, and lower risk.



As an electronic system, DWAC allows for immediate transfer to a brokerage account. There is no time needed for physical delivery so the settlement process is made more efficient and significantly accelerated. It also saves on costs associated with printing a physical certificate and mailing it.



Because there are no physical certificates transferred, there is no risk of loss or damage when transporting and handling such certificates.



While not typically a concern of investors, there are several requirements for the DWAC. Shares must be free trading or eligible for restriction removal. The broker must be a DTC participant and the issuer must be DWAC eligible.





Key Takeaways

DWAC is a transfer method of transferring certificates between broker/dealers and the Depository Trust Corporation (DTC) using FAST.It offers the benefits of quicker processing and minimal loss or damage to the shares (because they are in electronic format).


   What is FAST?  

The Fast Automated Securities Transfer Program (FAST) is a contract between DTC and transfer agents whereby FAST agents act as custodians for DTC. It eliminates the movement of physical securities.



The FAST program facilitates the industry’s dematerialization efforts and plays a significant role in reducing the costs associated with shipping certificates to and from agents as well as those related to printing and processing certificates. The FAST program does not apply to money market securities.


   Requesting and Delivering Physical Certificates  

While this process is electronic, shareholders can still withdraw their stock from their brokerage accounts and request a physical stock certificate by either having the broker initiate the request through DTC or by having their broker send the shares electronically directly to the transfer agent through the DWAC system. There may be fees for this service. The withdrawal of DWAC shares as physical certificates generally require Medallion Signature Guarantee - a certification stamp that guarantees the signature on a share certificate is authentic.



Shareholders can deposit their stock into a brokerage account by either sending their physical stock certificate to their broker or by having the transfer agent send the shares directly to the broker through the DWAC system.



To deposit your shares to your broker via DWAC, shareholders must provide original stock certificate(s), the DWAC deposit form, and applicable fees.
What Is the Deposit Multiplier?  

The deposit multiplier is the maximum amount of money that a bank can create for each unit of money it holds in reserves. The deposit multiplier involves the percentage of the amount on deposit at the bank that can be loaned. That percentage normally is determined by the reserve requirement set by the Federal Reserve.



The deposit multiplier is key to maintaining an economy's basic money supply. It's a component of the fractional reserve banking system, which is now common to banks in most nations around the world.





Key Takeaways

The deposit multiplier is the maximum amount of money a bank can create in the form of checkable deposits for each unit of money of reserves.This figure is key to maintaining an economy's basic money supply.It's a component of the fractional reserve banking system.Although reserve minimums are set by the Federal Reserve, banks may set higher ones for themselves.The deposit multiplier is different from the money multiplier, which reflects the change in a nation's money supply created by the actual use of a loan.


   Understanding the Deposit Multiplier  

The deposit multiplier is also called the deposit expansion multiplier or the simple deposit multiplier. It's connected to the portion of a bank's deposits that can be lent to borrowers.



This lending activity injects money into the nation's money supply and supports economic activity. Essentially, the deposit multiplier is an indicator of how banks can increase, or multiply, deposits.



Central banks, such as the Federal Reserve in the United States, establish minimum amounts that banks must hold in reserve. These amounts are known as required reserves. Banks must maintain reserves apart from what they loan to ensure that they have sufficient cash to meet any withdrawal requests from depositors. The Fed pays banks a small amount of interest on their reserves, which can be held at the bank or at a local Federal Reserve bank.



The deposit multiplier relates to the percentage of funds in reserve. It provides an idea of how much money banks could create based on what they have to lend after accounting for reserves.


  Deposit Multiplier Calculation  

The deposit multiplier is the inverse of the percentage of required reserves. So if the reserve requirement is 20%, the deposit multiplier is 5. Here's how that's calculated:



Deposit multiplier = 1/.20



Deposit multiplier = 5



For every $1 a bank has in reserves, it is able to increase deposits (and, theoretically, the money supply) by $5 through what it lends.



The amount that a bank can lend from its checkable deposits—demand accounts against which checks, drafts, or other financial instruments can be negotiated—depends on the Fed's reserve requirement. This is fractional reserve banking at work. If the reserve requirement is 20%, the bank can lend out 80% of money on deposit.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


   Deposit Multiplier vs. Money Multiplier  

The deposit multiplier is frequently confused with the money multiplier. Although the two terms are closely related, they are are distinctly different and not interchangeable.



The money multiplier reflects the change in a nation's money supply created by the loan of capital beyond a bank's reserve. It can be seen as the maximum potential creation of money through the multiplier effect of all bank lending.



The deposit multiplier provides the basis for the money multiplier, but the money multiplier value is ultimately less. That's because of excess reserves, savings, and conversions to cash by consumers.






Banks may keep reserves beyond the requirements set by the Federal Reserve in order to reduce the number of its checkable deposits. This can reduce the amount of new money it injects into the nation's money supply.




What Is Fractional Reserve Banking?
It's a system of banking whereby a portion of all money deposited is held in reserve to protect the daily activities of banks and ensure that they are able to meet the withdrawal requests of their customers. The amount not in reserve can be loaned to borrowers. This continually adds to the nation's money supply and supports economic activity. The Fed can use fractional reserve banking to affect the money supply by changing its reserve requirement.




How Does the Deposit Multiplier Relate to the Money Supply?
The deposit multiplier is an indicator of how much a bank's lending activity can add to the money supply. Essentially, banks multiply deposits throughout the country by lending money to borrowers who then deposit the money in their own bank accounts. The deposit multiplier represents the amount of money that can be created based on a single unit held in reserve. The higher the Fed's reserve requirement, the smaller the deposit multiplier, and the less of an increase in deposits created through lending.




How Do You Calculate the Deposit Multiplier?
Take the Federal Reserve's reserve requirement for banks. Divide that figure into 1. The result is the amount of new money that could be created. So, say the Fed's reserve requirement is 18%. The deposit multiplier would be 1/.18, or 5.55. That means for every $1 in bank reserves, $5.55 could be added to the money supply. The lower the reserve requirement, the greater the amount of money that can be created (because more money is available to be lent).
What Is a Deposit Slip?  

A deposit slip is a small paper form that a bank customer includes when depositing funds into a bank account. A deposit slip states the date, the name of the depositor, the depositor's account number, and the amounts being deposited.





Key Takeaways

A deposit slip is a small paper form that a bank customer includes when depositing funds into a bank account.A deposit slip contains the date, the name of the depositor, the depositor's account number, and the amounts being deposited as well as break down of whether the deposit consists of checks, cash, or if the depositor wants a specific amount of cash back from a check deposit.The deposit slip serves as proof that the bank acknowledged receiving the funds from the customer.


   How Deposit Slips Work  

A customer can typically find a stack of deposit slips when entering a bank, with designated spaces where they can fill in the required information to complete the deposit. A customer is required to fill out the deposit slip before approaching the bank teller to deposit funds.



The account number must be written at the bottom of the slip where indicated if the customer uses a deposit slip provided by the bank. The deposit slip informs the teller of the bank account number to which the funds should be credited.






Customers can request a copy of their deposit if necessary, including the itemized amounts that made up the total deposit if there's a dispute with the bank.



The slip also breaks down whether the deposit consists of checks, cash, or if the depositor wants a specific amount of cash back from a check deposit. The bank clerk typically verifies the funds received for the deposit against the amounts listed on the deposit slip to ensure that they match. The teller processes the slip along with the items in the deposit and prints a receipt for the customer.



Deposit slips are often included in the back of checkbooks. These have the customer's account number and the bank routing number pre-printed on them so there's no need to fill out one of the blank slips provided by the banking institution. You need only enter the details of the deposit you're making.


   Benefits of Deposit Slips  

Deposit slips protect both the bank and the customer. Banks use them to help maintain a written ledger of funds deposited throughout the day and to ensure that no deposits are unaccounted for at the end of the business day.



For bank customers, a deposit slip serves as a de facto receipt that the bank properly accounted for the funds and deposited the correct amount into the correct account. The deposit slip serves as proof that the bank acknowledged receiving the funds from the customer if the customer later checks the account balance and discovers the deposit was not reported correctly,



The deposit receipt proves that the deposit was made, but the receipt only shows the total of the deposit.




Is There Any Way to Avoid Using a Deposit Slip to Deposit Money?
Many major banks allow you to make mobile deposits if you're depositing a check. Simply take a picture of the check on your phone then submit it as a deposit using your bank's mobile app. You must typically enroll with your bank to use the app and some banks may enforce limits as to how much you can deposit this way.




What Is a Bank Routing Number?
A routing number is made up of nine digits that identify your bank to other banks. It will typically be printed on deposit slips that come with your checkbook and it may even appear on blank deposit slips that you can pick up at your bank.




Do Banks Have to Keep a Record of Deposit Slips?
Banks are required by federal law to keep records of deposits exceeding $100 for at least five years. They have the option of keeping them longer. But these records can be and typically are digital, not paper copies.


   The Bottom Line  

Deposit slips are becoming a thing of the past as banks have begun removing them from their branches in favor of new technology. Most banks don't require deposit slips for ATM deposits because the computer can read the check or count the cash and electronically credit the account associated with the ATM card.



ATM deposit receipts are available before completing the deposit, including receipts that contain images of the checks being deposited. Smartphone technology has advanced in that banks are offering apps that enable customers to scan paper checks instead of depositing them via a bank teller or ATM.
What Is a Deposition?  

In law, a deposition is an integral part of the discovery process. It is testimony made under oath and taken down in writing by an authorized officer of the court, typically in an out-of-court setting and before trial.





Key Takeaways

A deposition is testimony made under oath and taken down in writing by an authorized officer of the court, typically in an out-of-court setting and before trial.Depositions are usually taken from key witnesses, but can also involve the plaintiff or defendant, to give the involved parties a fair preview of all the evidence.The individual making the deposition is known as the deponent and false statements can carry civil and criminal penalties.


   Understanding Depositions  

The discovery process enables both sides involved in a legal case to unearth all the pertinent facts and learn about the other side’s view of the case, so as to map out an effective legal strategy. Depositions are usually taken from key witnesses, but can also involve the plaintiff or defendant, and often take place in an attorney's office rather than the courtroom. The individual making the deposition is known as the deponent. Since the deponent is under oath, false statements can carry civil and criminal penalties.



As with any discovery proceeding, the primary objective of a deposition is to give all parties involved in the litigation a fair preview of the evidence and level the field as far as information is concerned, so that there are no unwelcome surprises at trial. A deposition also preserves the testimony of the witness if it is taken in a relatively short time period after the occurrence of the crime or accident, since a trial may be months away and the witness’s recollection of the event may get blurred with the passage of time.


   When to Depose  

A deposition would be required, for instance, if one were to witness an accident that resulted in a liability lawsuit. All parties involved in the case are permitted to attend the deposition. The deponent will be asked a number of questions related to the lawsuit by the attorneys on both sides. A court reporter who is present accurately records every question and answer in the deposition, and produces a transcript that can later be used at trial.



Due to the exhaustive questioning that is characteristic of depositions, they may last several hours. Under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and its state equivalents, a deposition must take a maximum of seven hours per day for each deponent. In Canada, the deposition process is called “examination for discovery", and examinations for discovery are limited to 7 hours per party conducting the examination.


   Deposition Questions  

Questions asked at a deposition can be more wide-ranging than those that may be allowed in courtroom proceedings. For example, a witness to an automobile accident may be asked a series of questions such as:



Background – Does the witness have any prior convictions? Are they related to the parties involved in the case? Do they have physical limitations such as poor eyesight?Scene of the accident – Is the witness familiar with the scene? Do they know traffic controls and posted speed limits at the scene?Accident observations – How far was the witness from the scene of the accident? Did they have a clear view of the occurrence? What was the estimated speed of each vehicle?



As depositions are a critical part of the litigation process, and can significantly affect the outcome of a trial, legal professionals strive to adequately prepare their clients for depositions. While deponents are required to be scrupulously honest in their answers to questions, the objective is to avoid common mistakes made by deponents. These mistakes may include saying too much, thereby providing information that can be used to the advantage by the opposing side. Another common mistake is making guesses or assumptions, since deponents are required to stick to the facts and not speculate or theorize.




How Long Does a Deposition Take?
The length of a deposition will depend on the scope of the questions, the details needed, and the willingness to participate by the person being deposed. In general, a deposition can last as little as 30 minutes to more than eight hours spread over multiple sessions.




What Happens After a Deposition?
After a deposition has been finished, transcriptions and/or video recordings of the testimony are sent to both sides' lawyers for review and analysis. The depositions, along with other evidence collected during the discovery period, will either lead to a settlement out of court or a trial.




Can You Refuse a Deposition?
If you are subpoenaed to sit for a deposition, you must show up by law and answer the questions honestly and to the best of your knowledge. Failure to show up could result in imprisonment for contempt of court and forced into a deposition there. Lying under oath can result in the crime of perjury.
What Is a Depository?  

The term depository can refer to a facility in which something is deposited for storage or safeguarding, or an institution that accepts currency deposits from customers, such as a bank or a savings association. A depository also can be an organization, bank, or institution that holds securities and assists in the trading of securities. Deposits placed in a depository must be returned in the same condition upon request.



Depositories provide security and liquidity in the market. They use money deposited for safekeeping to lend to others, they invest in other securities, and they provide a funds transfer system.





Key Takeaways

A depository can be a facility or institution, such as a building, office, or warehouse, where something is deposited for storage or safeguarding.Depositories also may be organizations, banks, or institutions that hold currency or securities and assist in the trading of securities.They provide security, liquidity, and a means of transferring funds.


   Understanding Depositories  

Depositories are buildings, offices, and warehouses that allow consumers and businesses to deposit money, securities, and other valuable assets for safekeeping. Depositories may include banks, safehouses, vaults, financial institutions, and other organizations.



Depositories serve multiple purposes for the general public. First, they eliminate the owner's risk of holding physical assets by providing a safe place to store them. For instance, banks and other financial institutions give consumers a place to deposit their money by offering time deposit and demand deposit accounts.



A time deposit is an interest-bearing account with a specific date of maturity, such as a certificate of deposit (CD). A demand deposit account holds funds until they need to be withdrawn, such as with a checking or savings account.



Deposits can also be securities, such as stocks or bonds. When these assets are deposited, the institution holds the securities, either in electronic form, also known as book-entry form, or in paper form, such as a physical stock certificate.



Depository organizations also help create liquidity in the market. Customers give their money to a financial institution; the company holds it for a time and returns it when the customer wants it back. These institutions accept customers' money and pay interest on their deposits over time. While holding the customers' money, the institutions lend it to others in the form of mortgage or business loans, generating more interest on the money loaned than the interest they paid to customers.


   Example of a Depository  

Euroclear is a clearinghouse that acts as a central securities depository for its clients, many of whom trade on European exchanges. Most of its clients are banks, broker-dealers, and other institutions professionally engaged in managing new issues of securities, market-making, trading, or holding a wide variety of securities.



Euroclear settles domestic and international securities transactions, covering bonds, equities, derivatives, and investment funds. Domestic securities from more than 40 markets are accepted in the system, covering a broad range of internationally traded fixed- and floating-rate debt instruments, convertibles, warrants, and equities. This includes domestic debt instruments, short- and medium-term instruments, equities and equity-linked instruments, and international bonds from the major markets of Europe, Asia-Pacific, Africa and the Americas.


   Special Considerations  

Transferring the ownership of shares from one investor's account to another account when a trade is executed is one of the primary functions of a depository. This helps reduce the paperwork for executing a trade and speeds up the transfer process.



Another function of a depository is the elimination of the risk of holding the securities in physical form. These risks can include theft, loss, fraud, damage, or delay in deliveries.



An investor who wants to purchase precious metals can purchase them in physical bullion or paper form. Gold or silver bars or coins can be purchased from a dealer and kept with a third-party depository. Investing in gold through futures contracts is not equivalent to the investor owning gold. Instead, gold is owed to the investor.



A trader or hedger looking to take actual delivery on a futures contract must first establish a long (buy) futures position and wait until a short (seller) tenders a notice to delivery. With gold futures contracts, the seller is committing to deliver the gold to the buyer at the contract expiry date. The seller must have the metal—in this case, gold—in an approved depository. This is represented by holding COMEX-approved electronic depository warrants, which are required to make or take delivery.


   Types of Depositories  

The three main types of depository institutions are credit unions, savings institutions, and commercial banks. The main source of funding for these institutions is through deposits from customers. Customer deposits and accounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) up to certain limits.






A depository's institutional function or type determines which agency or agencies are responsible for its oversight.



Credit unions are nonprofit companies highly focused on customer services. Customers make deposits into a credit union account, which is similar to buying shares in that credit union. Credit union earnings are distributed in the form of dividends to every customer.



Savings institutions are for-profit companies also known as savings and loan institutions. These institutions focus primarily on consumer mortgage lending but may also offer credit cards and commercial loans. Customers deposit money into an account, which buys shares in the company. For example, a savings institution may approve 71,000 mortgage loans, 714 real estate loans, 340,000 credit cards, and 252,000 auto and personal consumer loans while earning interest on all these products during a single fiscal year.



Commercial banks are for-profit companies and are the largest type of depository institutions. These banks offer a range of services to consumers and businesses such as savings accounts, consumer and commercial loans, credit cards, and investment products. These institutions accept deposits and primarily use the deposits to offer mortgage loans, commercial loans, and real estate loans.


   Depository vs. Repository  

A depository is not the same thing as a repository, although they can often be confused.



A repository is where things are kept for safekeeping. But unlike a depository, the items kept in a repository are generally abstract such as knowledge. For instance, data can be kept in a software repository or a central location where files are housed. Investopedia is also considered a repository—in this case, it's a repository for financial information.




What Is a Depository Institution?
A depository institution is a financial institution whose main source of funds is deposits from customers. A commercial bank is a type of depository institution, as is a credit union or a savings and loan association.




What Is a Non-Depository Financial Institution?
A non-depository institution is a type of financial institution that does not primarily rely on customer deposits for its main income. Instead, it acts as a third party to financial transactions. One example of a non-depository institution is a life insurance company. Insurance companies accept payment for insurance products, but they do not typically hold funds for safekeeping, as a depository does.




What Are the Benefits of a Depository Institution?
There are several advantages to using a depository institution such as a bank. First, depositories provide safekeeping for assets, cash, and valuables, eliminating the risk of theft and loss. They typically pay interest on your deposits, which will grow your balance. Depositories also create liquidity by lending out money.


   The Bottom Line  

A depository is a place to deposit, or place, assets such as cash or securities. Depository institutions can include banks, credit unions, and savings and loans institutions. When you place your funds in a depository, the organization often will pay you interest on your deposit. It may also loan out those funds in the form of mortgages or personal loans. However, a depository must return your deposit when you request it. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation guarantees your deposits at participating institutions, up to certain limits.
What Is a Depositary Receipt (DR)?  

A depositary receipt (DR) is a negotiable certificate issued by a bank. It represents shares in a foreign company traded on a local stock exchange and gives investors the opportunity to hold shares in the equity of foreign countries. It gives them an alternative to trading on an international market.



A depositary receipt was originally a physical certificate that allowed investors to hold shares in the equity of other countries. One of the most common types of DRs is the American depositary receipt (ADR), which has been offering companies, investors, and traders global investment opportunities since the 1920s.





Key Takeaways

A depositary receipt (DR) is a negotiable certificate representing shares in a foreign company traded on a local stock exchange.Depositary receipts allow investors to hold equity shares of foreign companies without the need to trade directly on a foreign market.Depositary receipts allow investors to diversify their portfolios by purchasing shares of companies in different markets and economies. Depositary receipts are more convenient and less expensive than purchasing stocks directly in foreign markets.


   Understanding Depositary Receipts (DR)  

A depositary receipt allows investors to hold shares in stocks of companies that are listed on exchanges in foreign countries. A depositary receipt avoids the need to trade directly with the stock exchange in the foreign market. Investors instead transact with a major financial institution within their home country. This typically reduces fees and is far more convenient than purchasing stocks directly in foreign markets.


   American Depositary Receipts  

Investors can gain access to foreign stocks via American depositary receipts (ADRs) in the United States. ADRs are issued only by U.S. banks for foreign stocks that are traded on a U.S. exchange, including the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), NYSE, or Nasdaq. The receipt is listed in U.S. dollars when an investor purchases an American depositary receipt. A U.S. financial institution overseas rather than a global institution holds the actual underlying security.



ADRs are a great way to buy shares in a foreign company while earning capital gains and possibly being paid dividends, which are cash payments by the companies to shareholders. Both capital gains and dividends are paid in U.S. dollars.



ADR holders don't have to transact in foreign currencies because ADRs trade in U.S. dollars and clear through U.S. settlement systems. The U.S. banks require that the foreign companies provide them with detailed financial information, making it easier for investors to assess the company's financial health compared to a foreign company that only transacts on international exchanges.


   An Example of an ADR  

ICICI Bank Ltd. is listed in India and is typically unavailable to foreign investors. But ICICI Bank has an American depositary receipt issued by Deutsche Bank that trades on the NYSE, which most U.S. investors can access. This provides it with much wider availability among investors.






Gain more insight about depositary receipts from our in-depth tutorial on ADR Basics.


   Global Depositary Receipts  

Depositary receipts have spread to other parts of the globe in the form of global depositary receipts (GDRs), European DRs, and international DRs. ADRs are traded on a U.S. national stock exchange, but GDRs are commonly listed on European stock exchanges such as the London Stock Exchange. Both ADRs and GDRs are usually denominated in U.S. dollars, but they can also be denominated in euros.



A GDR works similarly to an ADR but in reverse. A U.S.-based company that wants its stock to be listed on the London Stock Exchange can accomplish this via a GDR. The U.S.-based company enters into a depositary receipt agreement with the London depository bank. In turn, the London bank issues shares in Britain based on the regulatory compliance for both countries.


   Advantages of Depositary Receipts  

Depositary receipts can be attractive to investors because they allow them to diversify their portfolios and purchase shares in foreign companies. Diversification is an investment strategy in which a portfolio is constructed so it contains a wide variety of stocks in multiple industries. Diversifying using depository receipts along with other investments prevents a portfolio from being too heavily concentrated in one holding or sector.



Depositary receipts provide investors with the benefits and rights of the underlying shares, which can include voting rights and dividends. They can open up markets that investors wouldn't have access to otherwise.



Depositary receipts are more convenient and less expensive than purchasing stocks in foreign markets. ADRs help reduce the administration and duty costs that would otherwise be levied on each transaction.






Depositary receipts help international companies raise capital globally and encourage international investment.


   Disadvantages of Depositary Receipts  

One of the disadvantages of depository receipts is that investors may find that many aren't listed on a stock exchange. They may only have institutional investors trading them.



Another potential downside to depositary receipts is their relatively low liquidity. There aren't many buyers and sellers, and this can lead to delays in entering and exiting a position. They may also come with significant administrative fees in some cases.



Depositary receipts such as ADRs don't eliminate currency risk for the underlying shares in another country. Dividend payments in euros are converted to U.S. dollars, net of conversion expenses and foreign taxes. The conversion is done in accordance with the deposit agreement. Fluctuations in the exchange rate could impact the value of the dividend payment.



Investors still face economic risks because the country in which the foreign company is located could experience a recession, bank failures, or political upheaval. The value of depository receipt would fluctuate as a result, along with any heightened risks in the foreign county.



There are also risks with attending securities that aren't backed by a company. The depositary receipt may be withdrawn at any time, and the waiting period for the shares being sold and the proceeds distributed to investors can be long.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


How is a depositary receipt transaction accomplished?
A foreign-listed company typically hires a financial advisor to help it navigate regulations when it wants to create a depositary receipt abroad. The company also generally uses a domestic bank to act as the custodian and a broker in the target country. The domestic bank will list shares of the firm on an exchange, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), in the country where the firm is located.




How are depositary receipts taxed?
Dividends and gains earned on American depositary receipts are paid in U.S. dollars, net of expenses and foreign taxes. Most banks withhold to cover foreign taxes, but the full income is still reportable and potentially taxable on your U.S. tax return, potentially resulting in double taxation unless steps are taken to prevent this.




What is a "sponsored" ADR?
A depositary bank works with a foreign company and its custodian bank with a sponsored American depositary receipt. ADRs are otherwise issued by brokers or dealers that own common stock in the foreign company. Unsponsored ADRs aren't commonly available on exchanges.


   The Bottom Line  

You can avoid trading directly with foreign stock exchanges by purchasing depositary receipts, but DRs come with both pros and cons. They're convenient, and they can be less expensive than trading directly because the fees are often reduced. But your investment can be impacted by economic risks and circumstances in the foreign country, and DRs aren't particularly liquid. Trades you make can be subject to some delays, so you'll want to be sure that you can weather these circumstances.
What Is a Depository Transfer Check?  

A depository transfer check (DTC) is used by a designated collection bank to deposit the daily receipts of a corporation from multiple locations. Depository transfer checks are a way to ensure better cash management for companies, which collect cash at multiple locations.



Data is transferred by a third-party information service from each location, from which DTCs are created for each deposit location. This information is then entered into the check-processing system at the destination bank for deposit.


   Understanding Depository Transfer Checks  

Depository transfer checks are used by companies to collect revenue from multiple locations, which are then deposited in one lump sum at a bank or other institution. They are also called depository transfer drafts.



The third-party information service used to transfer the data does so through a concentration bank. A concentration bank is the organization's primary financial institution, or where it conducts the majority of its financial transactions. The concentration bank then creates DTCs for each deposit location, which is entered into the system.





Key Takeaways

Companies use depository transfer checks in order to have a better cash management system. Depository transfer checks (DTC) may look similar to a deposit check but they do not have signatures on them. Automatic clearing house systems are replacing depository transfer check systems but some companies continue to use DTCs for deposits. Depository transfer checks are not the same thing as overnight deposits. 



A depository transfer check looks like a personal check, except that "Depository Transfer Check" is written across the top center of the face of the check. These instruments are non-negotiable and do not bear a signature.



DTCs are not to be confused with overnight deposits. Businesses are given a key for a secured dropbox. Deposits, which are placed in a bag with deposit slips, are dropped off in this dropbox after business hours. The bank opens the drop box in the morning and deposits the overnight deposit into the business' checking account.


   DTCs vs. Automatic Clearing House (ACH) Systems  

DTC-based systems have slowly been replaced by Automatic Clearing House (ACH). ACH systems are electronic funds-transfer systems that generally deal with payroll, direct deposit, tax refunds, consumer bills, and other payment systems in the United States. Roughly 14.4 billion deposits and 10.3 billion credits were made via ACH in 2019, which are considered to be faster, cheaper, and more efficient.﻿﻿






Firms that are not part of an ACH network must still use DTCs.


   Special Considerations  

As noted above, depository transfer checks enable companies to better manage their inflows. Corporate cash management is generally managed by a corporate treasurer. This function is important in companies with high incoming and outgoing cash flows combined with low profit margins. Examples of those industries are downstream oil and gas, leading players are BP, Shell, Exxon, Total and mass retailers such as Walmart, Amazon, H&M, Zara and Home Depot.



For example, Goldman Sachs has a robust treasury team to ensure its cash is managed in a manner that maintains its value and mitigates several key risks, related to changes in interest rates, credit, currency, commodities, and operations. Cash management is critical to ensuring a company's financial stability and solvency or its ability to meet its long-term financial obligations.



DTCs and ACHs can help some organizations track cash inflows. These systems often help organize accounts receivable (AR), along with collection rates.
What Is the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation (DTCC)?  

The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation (DTCC) is an American financial services company founded in 1999 that provides clearing and settlement services for the financial markets. When the DTCC was established in 1999, it combined the functions of the Depository Trust Company (DTC) and the National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC). The NSCC is currently a subsidiary of the DTCC.





Key Takeaways

The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation (DTCC) is a financial services company that provides clearing and settlement services for the financial markets.The DTCC settles most securities transactions in the U.S.Settlement is integral to securities transactions. It boosts investor confidence and reduces market risk.


   How the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation (DTCC) Works  

The DTCC processes trillions of dollars of securities on a daily basis. As the centralized clearinghouse for various exchanges and equity platforms, the DTCC settles transactions between buyers and sellers of securities and plays a critical role in automating, centralizing, standardizing, and streamlining the world's financial markets.



For example, when an investor places an order through their broker—and the trade is made between that broker and another broker or similar financial professional—information about that trade is sent to the NSCC (or an equivalent clearinghouse) for clearinghouse services.



After the NSCC has processed and recorded the trade, they provide a report to the brokers and financial professionals involved. This report includes their net securities positions after the trade and the money that is due to be settled between the two parties.



At this point, the NSCC provides settlement instructions to the DTCC; the DTCC transfers the ownership of the securities from the selling broker's account to the account of the broker who made the purchase. The DTCC is also in charge of transferring funds from the buying broker's account to the account of the broker who made the sale. The broker is then responsible for making the appropriate adjustments to their client's account. This entire process typically happens the same day the transaction occurs. The process for institutional investors is similar to the process for retail investors.


  Settlement  

The DTCC settles the vast majority of securities transactions in the U.S. Settlement is an important step in the completion of securities transactions. By ensuring that trades are executed properly and on time, the settlement process contributes to investor confidence and reduces market risk; timely and accurate trades guarantee that investors won't lose their money with solvent brokerage firms or other intermediaries.


  Products Managed  

The DTCC provides clearance, settlement, and information services for a wide range of securities products, including government and mortgage-backed securities, corporate and municipal bonds, derivatives, mutual funds, money market instruments, alternative investment products, and insurance products.


  Fees  

At times, clearing corporations may earn clearing fees by acting as a third party to a trade. For example, a clearinghouse may receive cash from a buyer and securities or futures contracts from a seller. The clearing corporation then manages the exchange and collects a fee for this service. The size of the fee is dependent on the size of the transaction, the level of service required, and the type of instrument being traded. Investors who make several transactions in a day can generate significant fees. In the case of futures contracts specifically, clearing fees can accumulate for investors because long positions can spread the per-contract fee out over a longer period of time.


   History of the DTCC  

The National Securities Clearing Corporation, currently a subsidiary of the DTCC, was originally founded in 1976. Before the NSCC was founded, stock exchanges would close once a week to complete the lengthy task of processing paper stock certificates. The large volume of trading overwhelmed brokerage firms, and many chose to close every Wednesday (in addition to shortening trading hours on other days of the week).



Brokers had to physically exchange certificates, which required them to employ people to carry certificates and checks. The process for transferring securities also relied heavily on physical recordkeeping. The exchange of physical stock certificates was difficult, inefficient, and increasingly expensive.



To overcome this problem, two changes were made: First, it was recommended that all paper stock certificates were stored in one centralized location and that the process become automated by keeping electronic records of all certificates that indicated changes of ownership and other securities transactions. This eventually led to the development of the Depository Trust Company (DTC) in 1973.



Second, multilateral netting was proposed. In a multilateral netting process, multiple parties arrange for transactions to be summed (rather than settling them individually). All of this netting activity is centralized to reduce the amount of invoicing and payment settlements. In response to this proposal of multilateral netting, the NSCC was formed in 1976.


   Depository Trust Company (DTC) vs. the National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC)  

The Depository Trust Company (DTC) is a subsidiary of the DTCC and is responsible for settling securities trades, moving securities for NSCC net settlements, processing corporate actions, underwriting, and other services. The DTC's settlement services result in reduced costs and increase efficiencies by serving as the central repository for millions of active securities and facilitating ownership changes for securities.



The National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC), another subsidiary of the DTCC, provides clearing, settlement, risk management, and other financial services. Regulated by the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), the NSCC also provides multilateral netting, whereby transactions among several parties are summed up centrally, rather than individually.




What Does the DTCC Do?
The DTCC is an American financial services company that provides clearing and settlement services for the financial markets. Through its subsidiaries, it provides clearing, asset servicing, settlements, and other financial services.




Who Is DTCC Owned By?
The Participants of the Clearing Agencies hold the DTCC's common shares and are, therefore, its owners.




What Is the Difference Between DTC and DTCC?
The DTCC is the parent institution of the Depository Trust Company (DTC), a securities depository. A member of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, the DTC provides settlement services, asset servicing, and clearing services.


   The Bottom Line  

The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation (DTCC) is a financial services company that provides clearing and settlement services for financial markets. It is also instrumental in the automation, centralization, standardization, and streamlining of said markets. For its subsidiaries, including the Depository Trust Company (DTC) and the National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC), it oversees operations and manages financial risks.
What Is the Depository Trust Company (DTC)?  

The Depository Trust Company (DTC) is one of the world's largest securities depositories. Founded in 1973 and based in New York City, the DTC is organized as a limited purpose trust company and provides safekeeping through electronic record-keeping of securities balances. It also acts as a clearinghouse to process and settle trades in corporate and municipal securities.





Key Takeaways

Founded in 1973, the Depository Trust Company is one of the world's largest securities depositories.The DTC's automated system lowers costs and improves accuracy.The DTC provides direct registration, underwriting, reorganization, and proxy and dividend services.In 2021, the DTC held more than 1.3 million current securities issues valued at $87 trillion and issued in the U.S. and 131 countries and territories.


   How the Depository Trust Company (DTC) Works  

The Depository Trust Company (DTC) is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), is a member of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, and was created to reduce costs and provide clearing and settlement efficiencies by immobilizing securities and making "book-entry" changes to the ownership of the securities.



The largest broker-dealers and banks in the United States are DTC participants and they deposit and hold securities at the DTC, which appear in the records of an issuer’s stock as the sole registered owner of those securities deposited at the DTC.



The DTC provides financial institutions with a record of net settlement obligations at the end of each day from trading in equity, debt, and money market instruments. In 2021, the DTC held more than 1.3 million current securities issues valued at $87 trillion and issued in the U.S. and 131 countries and territories.


   History of the DTC  

In 1968, as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) became overwhelmed by the paperwork involved with trade volume, it installed the functions of DTS, or maintenance of daily share prices, through its Central Certificate Service (CCS), a securities depository established to serve NYSE member firms.



DTC was created in early 1973 to acquire the business of CCS and to expand the benefits of the depository approach to other areas of the financial industry, particularly the bank sector. 



The Depository Trust and Clearing Company (DTCC) owns the DTC and manages risk in the financial system. Formerly an independent entity, the DTC was consolidated with several other securities-clearing companies in 1999 and became a subsidiary of the DTCC.






The DTC has allowed the New York Stock Exchange to increase its trade volume to billions per day.


   Functions of the DTC  

The DTC holds trillions of dollars worth of securities in custody, including corporate stocks and bonds, municipal bonds, and money market instruments. Individuals do not interact with the DTC, but securities brokers, dealers, institutional investors, depository institutions, issuing and paying agents, and settling banks do.



Owned by many companies in the financial industry, with the NYSE being one of its largest shareholders, the DTC provides services including:



• Settling funds at the end of each trading day using the National Settlement Service.



• Ensures safekeeping and employs record-keeping services.



• Provides direct registration, underwriting, reorganization, and proxy and dividend services.



• Announces dividend payments from an issuing company and allocates and reports dividend payments to the shareholders.



• Global tax services.



• Alerts companies on market irregularities and may impose a “chill,” a limitation of services, or a “freeze,” a global lock and complete restriction of DTC service, on all the company’s securities.




What Is a DTC Clearing Number?
The DTC number is a number that helps facilitate transactions between financial institutions. The DTC number is typically associated with the clearing firm that is used by your IRA custodian. To confirm your custodian’s DTC number, please contact your current IRA custodian.




What Does DTC Eligibility Mean?
A DTC “eligible security” is a security that is freely tradable pursuant to U.S. securities laws and is otherwise qualified to be held at DTC and serviced. The eligibility criteria are more fully described in DTC’s Operational Arrangements. 




What Is the DTCC?
DTCC and its family of companies, including its subsidiary DTC, serve as the post-trade market infrastructure in the industry, providing automation, centralization, standardization, and streamlining of processes critical to the markets’ safety and security.




How Does DTCC and DTC Monitor for Money Laundering?
DTCC, and its subsidiary DTC, employ a KYC Program to provide a risk-based approach for the collection of sufficient information and documentation to know its customers and the customers of its subsidiaries, as required by U.S. and international AML regulations.




How Will an Investor Know if DTC Has Issued a Freeze?
When DTC chills or freezes a security, it will issue a “Participant Notice” to its participants. These notices are publicly available on DTC’s website. When securities are frozen, DTC provides optional automated notifications giving participants the ability to update their systems to automatically block future trading of affected securities, in addition to alerting participant compliance departments.


   The Bottom Line  

The Depository Trust Company (DTC) is a limited purpose trust company and subsidiary of DTCC. It provides safekeeping through electronic record-keeping of securities balances and acts as a clearinghouse to process and settle trades in corporate and municipal securities.
What Is Depreciated Cost?  

Depreciated cost is the value of a fixed asset minus all of the accumulated depreciation that has been recorded against it. In a broader economic sense, the depreciated cost is the aggregate amount of capital that is "used up" in a given period, such as a fiscal year. The depreciated cost can be examined for trends in a company's capital spending and how aggressive their accounting methods are, seen through how accurately they calculate depreciation.



Depreciated cost is also known as the "salvage value," "net book value," or "adjusted cost basis."





Key Takeaways

Depreciated cost is the value of a fixed asset minus all of the accumulated depreciation that has been recorded against it.The value of an asset after its useful life is complete is measured by the depreciated cost.The depreciated cost helps companies assess their capital spending habits as well as their accounting methodology.The depreciated cost is also known as the "salvage value," "net book value," or "adjusted cost basis."


   How Depreciated Cost Works  

The depreciated cost method of asset valuation is an accounting method used by businesses and individuals to determine the useful value of an asset. It's important to note that the depreciated cost is not the same as the market value. The market value is the price of an asset, based on supply and demand in the market.



The depreciated cost is the value of an asset after its useful life is complete, reduced over time through depreciation. The depreciated cost method always allows for accounting records to show an asset at its current value as the value of the asset is constantly reduced by calculating the depreciation cost. This also allows for measuring cash flows generated from the asset in relation to the value of the asset itself.


   The Formula for Depreciated Cost  

﻿















Depreciated Cost


=


Purchase Price (or Cost Basis)


−


CD
















where:
















CD


=


Cumulative Depreciation








\begin{aligned} &\text{Depreciated Cost} = \text{Purchase Price (or Cost Basis)} - \text{CD} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{CD} = \text{Cumulative Depreciation} \\ \end{aligned}


​Depreciated Cost=Purchase Price (or Cost Basis)−CDwhere:CD=Cumulative Depreciation​﻿


   Example of Depreciated Cost  

If a construction company can sell an inoperable crane for parts at a price of $5,000, that is the crane's depreciated cost or salvage value. If the same crane initially cost the company $50,000, then the total amount depreciated over its useful life is $45,000.



Suppose the crane has a useful life of 15 years. At this point, the company has all the information it needs to calculate each year's depreciation. The simplest method is the straight-line depreciation. This means that there is no curve to the amount of appreciation, whether that is an immediate 30% depreciation seen when driving new cars off the lot or an increased depreciation when an item is close to needing major repairs. Using this method, depreciation is the same every year. It equals total depreciation ($45,000) divided by the useful life (15 years), or $3,000 per year.
What Is Depreciation?  

The term depreciation refers to an accounting method used to allocate the cost of a tangible or physical asset over its useful life. Depreciation represents how much of an asset's value has been used. It allows companies to earn revenue from the assets they own by paying for them over a certain period of time.



Because companies don't have to account for them entirely in the year the assets are purchased, the immediate cost of ownership is significantly reduced. Not accounting for depreciation can greatly affect a company's profits. Companies can also depreciate long-term assets for both tax and accounting purposes.



Depreciation can be compared with amortization, which accounts for the change in value over time of intangible assets.





Key Takeaways

Depreciation ties the cost of using a tangible asset with the benefit gained over its useful life.There are many types of depreciation, including straight-line and various forms of accelerated depreciation.Accumulated depreciation refers to the sum of all depreciation recorded on an asset to a specific date.The carrying value of an asset on the balance sheet is its historical cost minus all accumulated depreciation.The carrying value of an asset after all depreciation has been taken is referred to as its salvage value.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Depreciation  

Assets such as machinery and equipment are expensive. Instead of realizing the entire cost of an asset in year one, companies can use depreciation to spread out the cost and match depreciation expenses to related revenues in the same reporting period. This allows a company to write off an asset's value over a period of time, notably its useful life.



Companies take depreciation regularly so they can move their assets' costs from their balance sheets to their income statements. When a company buys an asset, it records the transaction as a debit to increase an asset account on the balance sheet and a credit to reduce cash (or increase accounts payable), which is also on the balance sheet. Neither journal entry affects the income statement, where revenues and expenses are reported.



At the end of an accounting period, an accountant books depreciation for all capitalized assets that are not fully depreciated. The journal entry consists of a:



Debit to depreciation expense, which flows through to the income statement
Credit to accumulated depreciation, which is reported on the balance sheet



As noted above, businesses can take advantage of depreciation for both tax and accounting purposes. This means they can take a tax deduction for the cost of the asset, reducing taxable income. But the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) states that when depreciating assets, companies must spread the cost out over time. The IRS also has rules for when companies can take a deduction.


   Special Considerations  

Depreciation is considered a non-cash charge because it doesn't represent an actual cash outflow. The entire cash outlay might be paid initially when an asset is purchased, but the expense is recorded incrementally for financial reporting purposes. That's because assets provide a benefit to the company over a lengthy period of time. But the depreciation charges still reduce a company's earnings, which is helpful for tax purposes.



The matching principle under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) is an accrual accounting concept that dictates that expenses must be matched to the same period in which the related revenue is generated. Depreciation helps to tie the cost of an asset with the benefit of its use over time. In other words, the incremental expense associated with using up the asset is also recorded for the asset that is put to use each year and generates revenue.



The total amount depreciated each year, which is represented as a percentage, is called the depreciation rate. For example, if a company had $100,000 in total depreciation over the asset's expected life, and the annual depreciation was $15,000. This means the rate would be 15% per year.






Buildings and structures can be depreciated, but land is not eligible for depreciation.


  Threshold Amounts  

Different companies may set their own threshold amounts for when to begin depreciating a fixed asset or property, plant, and equipment (PP&E). For example, a small company may set a $500 threshold, over which it depreciates an asset. On the other hand, a larger company may set a $10,000 threshold, under which all purchases are expensed immediately.


  Accumulated Depreciation  

Accumulated depreciation is a contra-asset account, meaning its natural balance is a credit that reduces its overall asset value. Accumulated depreciation on any given asset is its cumulative depreciation up to a single point in its life.



As stated earlier, carrying value is the net of the asset account and the accumulated depreciation. The salvage value is the carrying value that remains on the balance sheet after which all depreciation is accounted for until the asset is disposed of or sold.



It is based on what a company expects to receive in exchange for the asset at the end of its useful life. An asset’s estimated salvage value is an important component in the calculation of depreciation.






The IRS publishes depreciation schedules detailing the number of years an asset can be depreciated for tax purposes, based on various asset classes.


   Types of Depreciation  

There are several methods that accountants commonly use to depreciate capital assets and other revenue-generating assets. These are straight-line, declining balance, double-declining balance, sum-of-the-years' digits, and unit of production. We've highlighted some of the basic principles of each below.


  Straight-Line  

Using the straight-line method is the most basic way to record depreciation. It reports an equal depreciation expense each year throughout the entire useful life of the asset until the entire asset is depreciated to its salvage value.















Straight Line Depreciation.
Image by Theresa Chiechi © The Balance 2019 



Let's assume that a company buys a machine at a cost of $5,000. The company decides on a salvage value of $1,000 and a useful life of five years. Based on these assumptions, the depreciable amount is $4,000 ($5,000 cost - $1,000 salvage value).



The annual depreciation using the straight-line method is calculated by dividing the depreciable amount by the total number of years. In this case, it amounts to $800 per year ($4,000 / 5). This results in a depreciation rate of 20% ($800 / $4,000).


  Declining Balance  

The declining balance method is an accelerated depreciation method. This method depreciates the machine at its straight-line depreciation percentage times its remaining depreciable amount each year. Because an asset's carrying value is higher in earlier years, the same percentage causes a larger depreciation expense amount in earlier years, declining each year.



Declining Balance Depreciation = (Net Book Value - Salvage Value) x (1 / Useful Life) x Depreciation Rate



Using the straight-line example above, the machine costs $5,000, has a salvage value of $1,000, a five-year life, and is depreciated at 20% each year, so the expense is $800 in the first year ($4,000 depreciable amount x 20%), $640 in the second year (($4,000 - $800) x 20%), and so on.


  Double-Declining Balance (DDB)  

The double-declining balance (DDB) method is another accelerated depreciation method. After taking the reciprocal of the useful life of the asset and doubling it, this rate is applied to the depreciable base—its book value—for the remainder of the asset’s expected life. Thus, it is essentially twice as fast as the declining balance method.



DDB = (Net Book Value - Salvage Value) x (2 / Useful Life ) x Depreciation Rate



For example, an asset with a useful life of five years would have a reciprocal value of 1/5, or 20%. Double the rate, or 40%, is applied to the asset's current book value for depreciation. Although the rate remains constant, the dollar value will decrease over time because the rate is multiplied by a smaller depreciable base for each period.


  Sum-of-the-Years' Digits (SYD)  

The sum-of-the-years' digits (SYD) method also allows for accelerated depreciation. Start by combining all the digits of the expected life of the asset.



For example, an asset with a five-year life would have a base of the sum of the digits one through five, or 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 = 15. In the first depreciation year, 5/15 of the depreciable base would be depreciated. In the second year, only 4/15 of the depreciable base would be depreciated. This continues until year five depreciates the remaining 1/15 of the base.






The depreciation rate is used in both the declining balance and double-declining balance calculations.


  Units of Production  

This method requires an estimate of the total units an asset will produce over its useful life. Depreciation expense is then calculated per year based on the number of units produced. This method also calculates depreciation expenses based on the depreciable amount.


   Example of Depreciation  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how depreciation works. Keep in mind, though, that certain types of accounting allow for different means of depreciation. Let's assume that if a company buys a piece of equipment for $50,000, it may expense its entire cost in year one or write the asset's value off over the course of its 10-year useful life. This is why business owners like depreciation. Most business owners prefer to expense only a portion of the cost, which can boost net income.



The company can also scrap the equipment for $10,000 at the end of its useful life, which means it has a salvage value of $10,000. Using these variables, the accountant calculates depreciation expense as the difference between the asset's cost and its salvage value, divided by its useful life. The calculation in this example is ($50,000 - $10,000) / 10. This results in a total of $4,000 of depreciation expenses per year.



As such, the company's accountant does not have to expense the entire $50,000 in year one, even though the company paid out that amount in cash. Instead, the company only has to expense $4,000 against net income. The company expenses another $4,000 next year and another $4,000 the year after that, and so on until the asset reaches its $10,000 salvage value in 10 years.




Why Are Assets Depreciated Over Time?
New assets are typically more valuable than older ones. Depreciation measures the value an asset loses over time—directly from ongoing usage through wear and tear and indirectly from the introduction of new product models and factors like inflation.




How Are Assets Depreciated for Tax Purposes?
Depreciation is often what people talk about when they refer to accounting depreciation. This is the process of allocating an asset's cost over the course of its useful life in order to align its expenses with revenue generation.Businesses also create accounting depreciation schedules with tax benefits in mind because depreciation on assets is deductible as a business expense in accordance with IRS rules.Depreciation schedules can range from simple straight-line to accelerated or per-unit measures.




How Does Depreciation Differ From Amortization?
Depreciation refers only to physical assets or property. Amortization is an accounting term that essentially depreciates intangible assets such as intellectual property or loan interest over time.




What Is the Difference Between Depreciation Expense and Accumulated Depreciation?
The basic difference between depreciation expense and accumulated depreciation lies in the fact that one appears as an expense on the income statement while the other is a contra asset reported on the balance sheet.Both pertain to the wearing out of equipment, machinery, or another asset, and help to state its true value, which is an important consideration when making year-end tax deductions and when a company is sold and the assets need a proper valuation.Although both of these depreciation entries should be listed on year-end and quarterly reports, it is depreciation expense that is the more common of the two due to its application regarding deductions and can help lower a company's tax liability. Accumulated depreciation is commonly used to forecast the lifetime of an item or to keep track of depreciation year-over-year.




Is Depreciation Considered to Be an Expense?
Depreciation is considered to be an expense for accounting purposes, as it results in a cost of doing business. As assets like machines are used, they experience wear and tear and decline in value over their useful lives. Depreciation is recorded as an expense on the income statement.
What Is Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization (DD&A)?  

Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (DD&A) is an accounting technique that enables companies to gradually expense various different resources of economic value over time in order to match costs to revenues.



Depreciation spreads out the cost of a tangible asset over its useful life, depletion allocates the cost of extracting natural resources, such as timber, minerals, and oil from the earth, and amortization is the deduction of intangible assets over a specified time period; typically the life of an asset.



Depreciation and amortization are common to almost every industry, while depletion is usually used only by energy and natural-resource firms. The use of all three, therefore, is often associated with the acquisition, exploration, and development of new oil and natural gas reserves.





Key Takeaways

Depreciation, depletion, and amortization (DD&A) are accounting techniques that enable companies to gradually expense resources of economic value.Depreciation relates to the cost of a tangible asset, depletion to the cost of extracting natural resources, and amortization to the deduction of an intangible asset.The use of all three expensing strategies is typically associated with the acquisition, exploration, and development of new oil and natural gas reserves.DD&A charges can be found on a company's net income statement.


   Understanding Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization (DD&A)  

Accrual accounting permits companies to recognize capital expenses in periods that reflect the use of the related capital asset. In other words, it lets firms match expenses to the revenues they helped produce.



For example, if a large piece of machinery or property requires a large cash outlay, it can be expensed over its usable life, rather than in the individual period during which the cash outlay occurred. This accounting technique is designed to provide a more accurate depiction of the profitability of the business.



DD&A is a common operating expense item for energy companies. Analysts and investors in the energy sector should be aware of this expense and how it relates to cash flow and capital expenditure.


  Depreciation  

Depreciation applies to expenses incurred for the purchase of assets with useful lives greater than one year. A percentage of the purchase price is deducted over the course of the asset's useful life. 


  Depletion  

Depletion also lowers the cost value of an asset incrementally through scheduled charges to income. Where it differs is that it refers to the gradual exhaustion of natural resource reserves, as opposed to the wearing out of depreciable assets or the aging life of intangibles.



Depletion expense is commonly used by miners, loggers, oil and gas drillers, and other companies engaged in natural resource extraction. Enterprises with an economic interest in mineral property or standing timber may recognize depletion expenses against those assets as they are used. Depletion can be calculated on a cost or percentage basis, and businesses generally must use whichever provides the larger deduction for tax purposes.


  Amortization  

Amortization is very similar to depreciation, in theory, but applies to intangible assets such as patents, trademarks, and licenses, rather than physical property and equipment. Capital leases are also amortized.


   Recording Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization (DD&A)  

If a company uses all three of the above expensing methods, they will be recorded in its financial statement as depreciation, depletion, and amortization (DD&A). A single line providing the dollar amount of charges for the accounting period appears on the income statement.



Explanations may also be supplied in the footnotes, particularly if there is a large swing in the depreciation, depletion, and amortization (DD&A) charge from one period to the next.



An entry is made on the balance sheet, too. The dollar amount represents the cumulative total amount of depreciation, depletion, and amortization (DD&A) from the time the assets were acquired. Assets deteriorate in value over time and this is reflected in the balance sheet. 


   Real World Example  

Chevron Corp. (CVX) reported $19.4 billion in DD&A expense in 2018, more or less in line with the $19.3 billion it recorded in the prior year. In its footnotes, the energy giant revealed that the slight DD&A expense increase was due to higher production levels for certain oil and gas producing fields.















Source: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
What Is Depreciation Recapture?  

Depreciation recapture is the gain realized by the sale of depreciable capital property that must be reported as ordinary income for tax purposes. Depreciation recapture is assessed when the sale price of an asset exceeds the tax basis or adjusted cost basis. The difference between these figures is thus "recaptured" by reporting it as ordinary income.



Depreciation recapture is reported on Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 4797.





Key Takeaways

Depreciation recapture is a tax provision that allows the IRS to collect taxes on any profitable sale of an asset that the taxpayer had used to previously offset taxable income.Depreciation recapture on non-real estate property is taxed at the taxpayer's ordinary income tax rate, rather than the more favorable capital gains tax rate.Depreciation recaptures on gains specific to real estate property are capped at a maximum of 25%.To calculate the amount of depreciation recapture, the adjusted cost basis of the asset must be compared to the sale price of the asset.






   Understanding Depreciation Recapture  

Companies account for wear and tear on property, plant, and equipment through depreciation. Depreciation divides the cost associated with the use of an asset over a number of years. The IRS publishes specific depreciation schedules for different classes of assets. The schedules tell a taxpayer what percentage of an asset’s value may be deducted each year and the number of years for which the deductions may be taken.



For tax purposes, annual depreciation expense lowers the ordinary income that a company or individual pays each year and reduces the adjusted cost basis of the asset. If the depreciated asset is disposed of or sold for a gain, the ordinary income tax rate will be applied to the amount of the depreciation expense previously taken on the asset.



Depreciation recapture is a tax provision that allows the IRS to collect taxes on any profitable sale of an asset that the taxpayer had used to previously offset their taxable income. Since depreciation of an asset can be used to deduct ordinary income, any gain from the disposal of the asset must be reported and taxed as ordinary income, rather than the more favorable capital gains tax rate.



Depreciable capital assets held by a business for over a year are considered to be Section 1231 property, as defined in Section 1231 of the IRS Code. Section 1231 is an umbrella for both Section 1245 property and Section 1250 property. Section 1245 refers to capital property that is not a building or structural component. Section 1250 refers to real estate property, such as buildings and land. The tax rate for the depreciation recapture will depend on whether an asset is a section 1245 or 1250 asset.


   Examples of Depreciation Recapture  
  Section 1245 Depreciation Recapture  

The first step in evaluating depreciation recapture is to determine the cost basis of the asset. The original cost basis is the price that was paid to acquire the asset. The adjusted cost basis is the original cost basis minus any allowed or allowable depreciation expense incurred. For example, if business equipment was purchased for $10,000 and had a depreciation expense of $2,000 per year, its adjusted cost basis after four years would be $10,000 - ($2,000 x 4) = $2,000.



For income tax purposes, the depreciation would be recaptured if the equipment is sold for a gain. If the equipment is sold for $3,000, the business would have a taxable gain of $3,000 - $2,000 = $1,000. It is easy to think that a loss occurred from the sale since the asset was purchased for $10,000 and sold for only $3,000. However, gains and losses are realized from the adjusted cost basis, not the original cost basis. The reasoning for this method is that the taxpayer has benefited from lower ordinary income over the previous years due to annual depreciation expenses.






Gains and losses are realized from the adjusted cost basis, not the original cost basis.



The realized gain from an asset sale must be compared with the accumulated depreciation. The smaller of the two figures is considered to be the depreciation recapture. In our example above, since the realized gain on the sale of the equipment is $1,000, and accumulated depreciation taken through year four is $8,000, the depreciation recapture is thus $1,000. This recaptured amount will be treated as ordinary income when taxes are filed for the year.



Instead, assume the equipment in the example above was sold for $12,000. In that case, the entire accumulated depreciation of $8,000 is treated as ordinary income for depreciation recapture purposes. The additional $2,000 is treated as a capital gain, and it is taxed at the favorable capital gains rate. There is no depreciation to recapture if a loss was realized on the sale of a depreciated asset.


   Unrecaptured Section 1250 Gain  

Depreciation recapture on real estate property is not taxed at the ordinary income rate as long as straight-line depreciation was used over the life of the property. Any accelerated depreciation previously taken is still taxed at the ordinary income tax rate during recapture. However, this is a rare occurrence because the IRS has mandated all post-1986 real estate be depreciated using the straight-line method.



Part of the gain beyond the original cost basis is taxed as a capital gain and qualifies for the favorable tax rate on long-term gains, but the part that is related to depreciation is taxed at the unrecaptured gains section 1250 tax rate specific only to gains on real estate property. The unrecaptured section 1250 tax rate is currently capped at 25%.



For example, consider a rental property that was purchased for $275,000 and has an annual depreciation of $10,000 ($275,000 / 27.5 years allowed by IRS for rental property). After 11 years, the owner decides to sell the property for $430,000. The adjusted cost basis then is $275,000 - ($10,000 x 11) = $165,000. The realized gain on the sale will be $430,000 - $165,000 = $265,000. The unrecaptured section 1250 gain can be calculated as $10,000 x 11 = $110,000, and the capital gain on the property is $265,000 - ($10,000 x 11) = $155,000.



Let’s assume a 15% capital gains tax and that the owner falls in the 32% income tax bracket. Unrecaptured section 1250 gains are limited to 25%. The total amount of tax that the taxpayer will owe on the sale of this rental property is (0.15 x $155,000) + (0.25 x $110,000) = $23,250 + $27,500 = $50,750. The depreciation recapture amount is, thus, $27,500.




How Do You Calculate Depreciation Recapture?
Depreciation recapture is calculated by subtracting the adjusted cost basis from the sale price of the asset. The adjusted cost basis is the original price paid to acquire the asset minus any allowed or allowable depreciation expense incurred. If, for example, the adjusted cost basis is $2,000 and the asset is sold for $3,000, there is a gain of $1,000 to be taxed. The rate it will be taxed depends on the taxpayer’s income tax rate and whether the asset is real estate.




How Is Depreciation Recapture Treated?
Depreciation recapture is treated as ordinary income and taxed as such. With real estate, it's a little more complicated. The gain beyond the original cost basis is taxed as a capital gain, whereas the part that is related to depreciation is taxed at the unrecaptured gains section 1250 tax rate, which is capped at 25%.




How Can I Avoid Depreciation Recapture?
Depreciation recapture can be quite costly when selling something like real estate. Other than selling the property for less, which isn’t a favorable option, ways around it could include using the IRS Section 121 exclusion or passing the property to your heirs. If you find yourself in this position, speak to an expert before acting.


   The Bottom Line  

Depreciation recapture offers the IRS a way to collect taxes on the profitable sale of an asset that a taxpayer used to offset taxable income. While owning the asset, the taxpayer is permitted each year to expense its declining value to reduce the amount of income tax owed. However, if that asset is later sold, the IRS may be able to claw some of that money back.



Depreciation recapture is calculated by subtracting the adjusted cost basis, which is the price paid for the asset minus any allowed or allowable depreciation expense incurred, from the sale price. It only applies when an asset is sold for more than its adjusted cost basis and is taxed differently depending on the type of asset. Depreciation recapture on non-real estate property is taxed at the taxpayer's ordinary income tax rate. Depreciation recapture on gains specific to real estate property, on the other hand, is capped at a maximum of 25%.
What Is a Depression?  

A depression is a severe and prolonged downturn in economic activity. A depression may be defined as an extreme recession that lasts three or more years or which leads to a decline in real gross domestic product (GDP) of at least 10% in a given year.



Depressions are far less common than milder recessions. Both tend to be accompanied by relatively high unemployment and relatively low inflation.



The U.S. has experienced at least 34 recessions since 1850 including, in recent years, the Great Recession of 2008-2009 and the covid recession of 2020. But it has had only one depression, which lasted from 1929 until 1939 and is known as the Great Depression.





Key Takeaways

A depression is a dramatic and sustained downturn in economic activity, with symptoms including a sharp fall in economic growth, employment, and production.A depression can be defined as a recession that lasts longer than three years or that results in a decline of at least 10% in annual GDP. The U.S. economy has experienced many recessions but only one major depression.





32

The number of recessions that the U.S. experienced between 1850 and 2008, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research. Those were followed by the Great Recession of 2008-2009 and the Covid Recession of 2020 for a total of 34 recessions since 1850.


   Understanding Depressions  

Two major factors characterize a depression. Consumer confidence falls dramatically as people begin to worry about their job security and pull back on spending. And, investments decrease as businesses and individuals stop investing, whether that means building a new factory, developing a new product, or buying stocks.



Economic factors that characterize a depression include:



A substantial increase in unemployment
A drop in available credit from banks
Diminishing output and productivity
Consistent negative GDP growth
Bankruptcies
Sovereign debt defaults
Reduced trade and global commerce
A bear market in stocks
Falling currency values
Low to no inflation, or even deflation
An increased savings rate (among those who still have money to save)



Economists disagree on the duration of a depression. Some argue that a depression encompasses only the period that is plagued by declining economic activity. Other economists argue that the depression continues up until the point that most economic activity has returned to normal.


   Depression vs. Recession  

A recession is considered a normal part of the boom-and-bust business cycle. It is generally defined as a decline in GDP for at least two consecutive quarters. Given the lag in collecting data on economic activity, a brief recession may be over before it is confirmed to have happened.



A depression lasts for years, and its consequences are far graver. Almost 25% of the U.S. population was unemployed during the depths of the Great Depression, and that figure does not include the farmers who lost their homes and their land due to cratering prices for their produce.



Recessions are much more common: Between 1854 and 2008, there were been 32 recessions in the U.S. and just one depression. Since then, we've had the Great Recession of 2008-2009 and the briefer and less disruptive covid recession of 2020.



As noted, a recession is defined as at least two consecutive quarters of negative GDP growth, even if that decline is slight. A depression is defined by a drop in annual GDP of 10% or more.



The Great Depression lasted for a decade.






A recession is defined as two or more consecutive quarters of decline in GDP growth, no matter how slight the decline is. A depression is defined by a drop in annual GDP of 10% or more.


   Example of a Depression   

The Great Depression is to this day the worst economic downturn in modern world history. Lasting roughly a decade, many historians trace its origins to Oct. 24, 1929, when the stock market crashed in an event afterward known as Black Thursday. After years of reckless investing and speculation, the stock market bubble burst and a huge sell-off began, with a then-record 12.9 million shares traded.



On that day, the United States was already in a recession. The following Tuesday, Oct. 29, 1929, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 12% more in another mass sell-off, triggering the start of the Great Depression.



The Great Depression began in the United States but soon took hold throughout the industrialized world. Its economic impact was felt for more than a decade. The era was characterized by catastrophic levels of unemployment, poverty, hunger, and political unrest. Consumer spending and business investment dried up. U.S. unemployment reached a level of just under 25% in 1933 and remained in the double digits until 1941 when it finally fell to 9.66%.






During the Great Depression, wages dropped 42%, real estate prices declined 25%, total U.S. economic output fell by 30%, and many investors' portfolios became worthless as stock prices cratered.



Shortly after Franklin D. Roosevelt was elected president in 1932, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) was created to protect depositors' bank accounts in the event of bank failure. In addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) was formed to regulate the U.S. stock markets. 


   Why a Repeat of the Great Depression Is Unlikely  

Government policymakers appear to have learned their lesson from the Great Depression. New laws and regulations were introduced to protect consumers and investors. Central banks developed tools designed to keep the economy steady.



Nowadays, central banks are quick to react to inflation before it gets out of control. They are equally willing to use expansionary monetary policy to lift the economy during difficult times. These tools are widely credited for helping to stop the Great Recession of 2008-2009 from becoming a full-blown depression.



A series of factors can cause an economy and production to contract severely. In the case of the Great Depression, questionable monetary policy took the blame.


   What Causes a Depression?  

An economic depression is a rolling disaster that begins with a decline in consumer confidence. There is, of course, a triggering event or events behind this loss of confidence. The subprime mortgage crisis of 2006 is seen as the first major event leading to the Great Recession of 2008-2009. As home prices fell, many Americans watched their personal wealth and that of their neighbors evaporate. They grew cautious about spending money.



When consumers spend less, businesses produce less and rethink investments in new enterprises. They need fewer workers to produce fewer goods, so they begin laying off people. With more people unemployed, wages for the few remaining jobs fall. With fewer people spending money, the prices of many goods fall.



The wheel keeps turning as the economy sinks farther into negative territory.


   What Signals an Upcoming Depression?  

If it all starts with the consumer, the number to keep an eye on is the Consumer Confidence Index published by the Confidence Board. One of the numbers considered to be a key economic indicator of the health of the U.S. economy, the latest updates to the index are published on the last Tuesday of every month.



For example, on the last day of January 2023, we learned that U.S. consumer confidence declined in December 2022. The index stood at 107.1, down from 109.0 the previous month.



The survey used to compile the index delves into the reasons behind consumer confidence, or lack of it. Its "Present Situation Index," which assesses views on current business and labor market conditions, increased slightly. Its "Expectations Index," based on consumers' short-term outlook, fell a bit.



In fact, the Expectations Index fell to 77.8, below the key level of 80, which is seen as a possible signal that there will be a recession in 2023.



Note, that's a potential for a recession, not a depression. The number would have to indicate a catastrophic loss in consumer confidence to cause anyone to use the "d" word. And even then, monetary policymakers and fiscal policymakers would be scrambling to use the tools at their disposal to prop up those numbers.


   How to Prevent a Depression  

In modern times, a deep recession or an outright depression is most often fended off by the use of two weapons wielded by separate branches of government, expansionary fiscal policy and expansionary monetary policy.



There is another course, fiscal austerity, that has been controversial, to say the least.


  Fiscal Policy  

Fiscal policy is the job of the U.S. Congress and the president. In warding off an economic downturn, fiscal policymakers spend taxpayer money. They may approve massive public works projects such as the Works Progress Administration (WPA), which was created in 1935 to create jobs to replace those lost. They may put money directly into the hands of the public, through such measures as the expanded child tax credit that increased the spending power of families during the Covid-related recession.


  Monetary Policy  

Monetary policy is the job of the central bank. In the U.S., that's the Federal Reserve, The Fed can goose the economy simply by lowering the interest rates it charges banks for the short-term loans that keep the banking system running.



These rates influence all other rates that are charged for consumer and business loans. Cheap money encourages more borrowing and more business investment, leading to the creation of more jobs. When it works, the rolling disaster of a looming depression comes to a halt and begins to reverse course.



If still more firepower is needed, the Fed may adopt a policy of quantitative easing. The Fed uses its own reserves to buy massive amounts of the government's debts, such as bonds. This has the effect of adding more cash to the economy. That cash becomes available for new investments.


  Fiscal Austerity  

Fiscal austerity stands in direct opposition to expansionary policy as a strategy for fending off an economic downturn.



In times of recession, government revenues decline. Fewer people are working, fewer projects are getting off the ground, and consumer spending is reduced. All of the taxable events that keep a government humming are in decline.



A commitment to a balanced budget could logically be met with cuts in government spending. That course was followed during the Great Recession by some nations in the European Union as well as by some U.S. states which were hamstrung by balanced budget rules or had a pronounced aversion to increasing government debt.



Whether this strategy cures a recession or feeds it continues to be a matter of debate. Most recently, U.K. Prime Minister Liz Truss was ousted from her job after a record-short tenure for recommending fiscal austerity in response to the nation's economic problems.


   How to Protect Your Money in a Depression  

If history is any guide, you shouldn't spend your time worrying about a depression but you should prepare for the next recession. It's really about maintaining your awareness that the economy moves in a boom-and-bust cycle, and if it's boom time, get ready for the bust.



As an investor, that means keeping your portfolio diversified to include safe haven picks that do well even in a downturn. As a responsible adult, it means saving regularly, paying your debt down, and maintaining an emergency fund.



And, as a participant in the modern American economy, it can mean looking around you and considering alternative sources of income that you can exploit when things turn dicey.




What Is a Depression vs. a Recession?
You might view a depression as a recession that is extreme in its effects and its duration. A recession is a relatively brief downturn in economic activity. It is seen as an intrinsic stage of the economic cycle.These are the generally accepted definitions of the two:A recession is a decrease in gross domestic product (GDP) that lasts for at least two quarters. It is a slowdown in economic activity.A depression is a severe drop in GDP that lasts for a year or more. It is characterized by massive job losses, widespread bankruptcies, and steeply declining prices for goods and services.




Can a Great Depression Happen Again?
The United States dodged another Great Depression in 2008-2009. There's a good chance that it could do so again using some of the same costly but powerful fiscal and monetary measures that it deployed at that time. These included huge loans to the banks and the auto industry; tax cuts for the public; increased government infrastructure spending, and lower interest rates.Keep in mind, too, that the covid pandemic caused only a brief recession in 2020. That, too, was met with a targeted array of fiscal and monetary actions that might have prevented a far more severe downturn.




How Long Can a Recession Last?
A recession is defined as at least two consecutive quarters of negative economic growth.A chart from the Federal Reserve of recessions since 1970 suggests how long a recession can last. Probably the worst was the "double-dip" recession that began in the second quarter of 1979 and ended in the third quarter of 1980, only to reemerge in the second quarter of 1981 and continue through the third quarter of 1982.


   The Bottom Line  

Recessions are common enough events to be considered a normal part of the economic cycle. A period of expansion is followed by a period of contraction. They are unpredictable, although plenty of people try to predict them.



Economists couldn't anticipate, for example, that a worldwide pandemic would cause a near shutdown of the global pipeline of goods and services, leading to a recession that began in the first quarter of 2020. They also could not predict that the recession would be over by the third quarter of 2020, after a huge infusion of government cash not only propped up the economy but kept it going until more normal economic activity could resume.



A depression is a recession of catastrophic proportions. The U.S. economy has not been in an economic depression since 1939. That may in part be because the nation's policymakers have developed tools to alleviate the effects of a recession before it morphs into something worse.
What Is Depth of Market (DOM)?  

Depth of market (DOM) is a measure of the supply and demand for liquid, tradeable assets. It is based on the number of open buy and sell orders for a given asset such as a stock or futures contract. The greater the quantity of those orders, the deeper or more liquid, the market is considered to be.



Depth of market data is also known as the order book since it consists of a list of pending orders for a security or currency. The data in the book is used to determine which transactions can be processed. DOM data is available from most online brokers for free or for a small fee.


   Understanding DOM  

By measuring real-time supply and demand, market depth is used by traders to assess the likely direction of an asset's price. It is also used to gauge the number of shares of the asset that can be bought without causing its price to appreciate.



If a stock is extremely liquid, it has a large number of both buyers and sellers. A buyer can purchase a large block of shares without causing a substantial stock price movement.



However, if a stock is not particularly liquid, it doesn't trade as constantly. Purchasing a block of shares may have a noticeable impact on the stock's price.



Depth of market is typically displayed as an electronic list of outstanding buy and sell orders, organized by price level and updated in real-time to reflect current activity. A matching engine pairs up compatible trades for completion.



Most online brokers offer some form of DOM display. This allows users to see a full list of buy and sell orders pending execution, along with the size of the trade, rather than just the best options available.





Key Takeaways

Depth of market (DOM) is an indicator of the current interest in a stock or other asset.It can be read as a signal of the likely direction of a stock's price.It is used to judge the optimal time to buy or sell an asset.


  How to Use DOM Data  

Depth of market data helps traders see where the price of a security may be heading in the near future as orders are filled, updated, or canceled. A trader might use market depth data to understand the bid-ask spread for a stock, along with its current volume.



Stocks with a strong depth of market tend to be popular large-cap companies like Apple (AAPL). They usually have strong volumes and are quite liquid, allowing traders to place large orders without significantly affecting their market prices.



Securities with poor depth of market tend to be more obscure companies with smaller market capitalizations. The prices of their stocks are likely to move if a single trader places a large buy or sell order.






The most popular stocks tend to have a greater depth of market than the stocks of lesser-known companies.



Being able to view the depth of market information for a particular security in real-time allows traders to profit from short-term price volatility. For example, when a company launches its initial public offering (IPO), traders can watch its DOM in real-time, waiting for the opportunity to buy or sell shares when the price reaches the right level of demand.


   Example of DOM  

Say a trader is tracking the DOM of Stock A. The shares might currently be trading at $1.00. But there are 250 offers at $1.05, 250 at $1.08, 125 at $1.10, and 100 at $1.12. Meanwhile, there are 50 offers at $0.98, 40 offers at $0.95, and 10 each at $0.93 and $0.92.



Seeing this trend, the trader might determine that Stock A is going higher. Armed with that knowledge, the trader can decide whether this is the right time to jump in and buy or sell the stock.
What Is Deregulation?  

Deregulation is the reduction or elimination of government power in a particular industry, usually enacted to create more competition within the industry. Over the years, the struggle between proponents of regulation and proponents of government nonintervention has shifted market conditions. Historically, finance has been one of the most heavily scrutinized industries in the United States.


   Understanding Deregulation  

Proponents of deregulation argue that overbearing legislation reduces investment opportunity and stymies economic growth, causing more harm than it helps. Indeed, the U.S. financial sector wasn’t heavily regulated until the stock market crash of 1929 and the resulting Great Depression. In response to the country’s greatest financial crisis in its history, Franklin D. Roosevelt’s presidential administration enacted many forms of financial regulation, including the Securities Exchange Acts of 1933 and 1934 and the U.S. Banking Act of 1933, otherwise known as the Glass-Steagall Act.



The Securities Exchange Acts required all publicly traded companies to disclose relevant financial information and established the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to oversee securities markets. The Glass-Steagall Act prohibited a financial institution from engaging in both commercial and investment banking. This reform legislation was based on the belief that the pursuit of profit by large, national banks must have spikes in place to avoid reckless and manipulative behavior that would lead financial markets in unfavorable directions.






Deregulation proponents argue that overbearing legislation reduces investment opportunity and stymies economic growth, causing more harm than it helps.



Over the years, proponents of deregulation steadily chipped away at these safeguards until the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which imposed the most sweeping legislation on the banking industry since the 1930s. How did they do it?


   The History of Deregulation  

In 1986, the Federal Reserve (Fed) reinterpreted the Glass-Steagall Act and decided that 5% of a commercial bank’s revenue could be from investment banking activity. In 1996, that level was pushed up to 25%. The following year, the Fed ruled that commercial banks could engage in underwriting, the method by which corporations and governments raise capital in debt and equity markets. In 1994, the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act was passed, amending the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, to allow interstate banking and branching.



Later, in 1999, the Financial Services Modernization Act, or Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, was passed under the watch of the Clinton administration and overturned the Glass-Steagall Act completely. In 2000, the Commodity Futures Modernization Act prohibited the Commodity Futures Trading Commission from regulating credit default swaps and other over-the-counter (OTC) derivative contracts. In 2004, the SEC made changes that reduced the proportion of capital that investment banks have to hold in reserves.



This spree of deregulation, however, came to a grinding halt following the subprime mortgage crisis of 2007 and the financial crash of 2007–2008, most notably with the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010, which restricted subprime mortgage lending and derivatives trading.



However, with the 2016 U.S. election bringing both a Republican president and Congress to power, then-President Donald Trump and his party set their sights on undoing Dodd-Frank. In May 2018, Trump signed a bill that exempted small and regional banks from Dodd-Frank’s most stringent regulations and loosened rules put in place to prevent the sudden collapse of big banks. The bill passed both houses of Congress with bipartisan support after successful negotiations with Democrats.



Trump had said that he wanted to “do a big number” on Dodd-Frank, possibly even repealing it completely. However, former Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.), its co-sponsor, said of the new legislation, “This is not a ‘big number’ on the bill. It’s a small number.” Indeed, the legislation left major pieces of Dodd-Frank’s rules in place and failed to make any changes to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which was created by Dodd-Frank to police its rules.


   What Are the Effects of Deregulation?  

The hoped-for effects of deregulation are to increase investment opportunities by eliminating restrictions for new businesses to enter markets and increase competition.



Increasing competition encourages innovation, and as companies enter markets and compete with each other, consumers can enjoy lower prices.



Lessening the need to use resources and capital to comply with regulations allows corporations to invest in research and development.



Without needing to comply with mandated restrictions, businesses will develop new products, set competitive prices, employ more labor, enter foreign countries, buy new assets, and interact with consumers without the need to obey regulations.




What are the most regulated industries in the United States?
The most regulated industries in the United States are:Petroleum and coal product manufacturingElectric power generation, transmission, and distributionMotor vehicle manufacturingNon-depository credit intermediationDepository credit intermediationScheduled air transportationFishingOil and gas extractionPharmaceutical and medicine manufacturingDeep sea, coastal, and Great Lakes water transportation




What would happen if there were no federal regulations in the U.S.?
Hazards would increase for people taking medicine, driving cars, eating food, and using other consumer products that were no longer subject to regulated safety standards.Workplaces would lack safe environments or conditions. Weekends and overtime might be eliminated, forcing employees to work long hours or face the prospect of losing their jobs. For example, rivers and other bodies of water could become heavily polluted and even catch fire, as they did before the passage of the Clean Water and Environmental Protection acts in 1970.




What are some benefits to deregulation?
Deregulation can help economic growth thrive. It is thought that by permitting firms to run their business how they prefer, they are able to be more efficient. There are no rules that specify that they can only run their factories for a set number of hours per day or use specific materials in production.When the company does not need to pay legal fees to ensure that it is in compliance, there is more available capital to use for investing in labor or new equipment. Companies can also lower their fees and thus attract more customers.In sectors such as airlines and telecommunications, deregulation has increased competition and lowered prices for consumers.As deregulation takes effect, it reduces barriers to entry. New businesses don’t have as many fees or regulatory considerations, so it is less expensive to enter markets.


   The Bottom Line  

Deregulation lowers costs of operations, allows more businesses to enter a market, and lowers prices for consumers. These factors can help stimulate efficiency and lead to increased economic growth.
What Is a Derivative?  

The term derivative refers to a type of financial contract whose value is dependent on an underlying asset, group of assets, or benchmark. A derivative is set between two or more parties that can trade on an exchange or over-the-counter (OTC).



These contracts can be used to trade any number of assets and carry their own risks. Prices for derivatives derive from fluctuations in the underlying asset. These financial securities are commonly used to access certain markets and may be traded to hedge against risk. Derivatives can be used to either mitigate risk (hedging) or assume risk with the expectation of commensurate reward (speculation). Derivatives can move risk (and the accompanying rewards) from the risk-averse to the risk seekers.





Key Takeaways

Derivatives are financial contracts, set between two or more parties, that derive their value from an underlying asset, group of assets, or benchmark.A derivative can trade on an exchange or over-the-counter.Prices for derivatives derive from fluctuations in the underlying asset.Derivatives are usually leveraged instruments, which increases their potential risks and rewards.Common derivatives include futures contracts, forwards, options, and swaps.












Investopedia / Katie Kerpel


   Understanding Derivatives  

A derivative is a complex type of financial security that is set between two or more parties. Traders use derivatives to access specific markets and trade different assets. Typically, derivatives are considered a form of advanced investing. The most common underlying assets for derivatives are stocks, bonds, commodities, currencies, interest rates, and market indexes. Contract values depend on changes in the prices of the underlying asset.



Derivatives can be used to hedge a position, speculate on the directional movement of an underlying asset, or give leverage to holdings. These assets are commonly traded on exchanges or OTC and are purchased through brokerages. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) is among the world's largest derivatives exchanges.



It's important to remember that when companies hedge, they're not speculating on the price of the commodity. Instead, the hedge is merely a way for each party to manage risk. Each party has its profit or margin built into the price, and the hedge helps to protect those profits from being eliminated by market moves in the price of the commodity.



OTC-traded derivatives generally have a greater possibility of counterparty risk, which is the danger that one of the parties involved in the transaction might default. These contracts trade between two private parties and are unregulated. To hedge this risk, the investor could purchase a currency derivative to lock in a specific exchange rate. Derivatives that could be used to hedge this kind of risk include currency futures and currency swaps.






Exchange-traded derivatives are standardized and more heavily regulated than those that are traded over-the-counter.






   Special Considerations  

Derivatives were originally used to ensure balanced exchange rates for internationally traded goods. International traders needed a system to account for the differing values of national currencies.



Assume a European investor has investment accounts that are all denominated in euros (EUR). Let's say they purchase shares of a U.S. company through a U.S. exchange using U.S. dollars (USD). This means they are now exposed to exchange rate risk while holding that stock. Exchange rate risk is the threat that the value of the euro will increase in relation to the USD. If this happens, any profits the investor realizes upon selling the stock become less valuable when they are converted into euros.



A speculator who expects the euro to appreciate versus the dollar could profit by using a derivative that rises in value with the euro. When using derivatives to speculate on the price movement of an underlying asset, the investor does not need to have a holding or portfolio presence in the underlying asset.






Many derivative instruments are leveraged, which means a small amount of capital is required to have an interest in a large amount of value in the underlying asset.


   Types of Derivatives  

Derivatives today are based on a wide variety of transactions and have many more uses. There are even derivatives based on weather data, such as the amount of rain or the number of sunny days in a region.



There are many different types of derivatives that can be used for risk management, speculation, and leveraging a position. The derivatives market is one that continues to grow, offering products to fit nearly any need or risk tolerance.



There are two classes of derivative products: "lock" and "option." Lock products (e.g., futures, forwards, or swaps) bind the respective parties from the outset to the agreed-upon terms over the life of the contract. Option products (e.g., stock options), on the other hand, offer the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell the underlying asset or security at a specific price on or before the option's expiration date. The most common derivative types are futures, forwards, swaps, and options.


  Futures  

A futures contract, or simply futures, is an agreement between two parties for the purchase and delivery of an asset at an agreed-upon price at a future date. Futures are standardized contracts that trade on an exchange. Traders use a futures contract to hedge their risk or speculate on the price of an underlying asset. The parties involved are obligated to fulfill a commitment to buy or sell the underlying asset.



For example, say that on Nov. 6, 2021, Company A buys a futures contract for oil at a price of $62.22 per barrel that expires Dec. 19, 2021. The company does this because it needs oil in December and is concerned that the price will rise before the company needs to buy. Buying an oil futures contract hedges the company's risk because the seller is obligated to deliver oil to Company A for $62.22 per barrel once the contract expires. Assume oil prices rise to $80 per barrel by Dec. 19, 2021. Company A can accept delivery of the oil from the seller of the futures contract, but if it no longer needs the oil, it can also sell the contract before expiration and keep the profits.



In this example, both the futures buyer and seller hedge their risk. Company A needed oil in the future and wanted to offset the risk that the price may rise in December with a long position in an oil futures contract. The seller could be an oil company concerned about falling oil prices that wanted to eliminate that risk by selling or shorting a futures contract that fixed the price it would get in December.



It is also possible that one or both of the parties are speculators with the opposite opinion about the direction of December oil. In that case, one might benefit from the contract, and one might not. Take, for example, the futures contract for West Texas Intermediate (WTI) oil that trades on the CME and represents 1,000 barrels of oil. If the price of oil rose from $62.22 to $80 per barrel, the trader with the long position—the buyer—in the futures contract would have profited $17,780 [($80 - $62.22) x 1,000 = $17,780]. The trader with the short position—the seller—in the contract would have a loss of $17,780.


  Cash Settlements of Futures  

Not all futures contracts are settled at expiration by delivering the underlying asset. If both parties in a futures contract are speculating investors or traders, it is unlikely that either of them would want to make arrangements for the delivery of a large number of barrels of crude oil. Speculators can end their obligation to purchase or deliver the underlying commodity by closing (unwinding) their contract before expiration with an offsetting contract.



Many derivatives are, in fact, cash-settled, which means that the gain or loss in the trade is simply an accounting cash flow to the trader's brokerage account. Futures contracts that are cash-settled include many interest rate futures, stock index futures, and more unusual instruments such as volatility futures or weather futures.


  Forwards  

Forward contracts, or forwards, are similar to futures, but they do not trade on an exchange. These contracts only trade over-the-counter. When a forward contract is created, the buyer and seller may customize the terms, size, and settlement process. As OTC products, forward contracts carry a greater degree of counterparty risk for both parties.



Counterparty risks are a type of credit risk in that the parties may not be able to live up to the obligations outlined in the contract. If one party becomes insolvent, the other party may have no recourse and could lose the value of its position.



Once created, the parties in a forward contract can offset their position with other counterparties, which can increase the potential for counterparty risks as more traders become involved in the same contract.


  Swaps  

Swaps are another common type of derivative, often used to exchange one kind of cash flow with another. For example, a trader might use an interest rate swap to switch from a variable interest rate loan to a fixed interest rate loan, or vice versa.



Imagine that Company XYZ borrows $1,000,000 and pays a variable interest rate on the loan that is currently 6%. XYZ may be concerned about rising interest rates that will increase the costs of this loan or encounter a lender that is reluctant to extend more credit while the company has this variable-rate risk.



Assume XYZ creates a swap with Company QRS, which is willing to exchange the payments owed on the variable-rate loan for the payments owed on a fixed-rate loan of 7%. That means that XYZ will pay 7% to QRS on its $1,000,000 principal, and QRS will pay XYZ 6% interest on the same principal. At the beginning of the swap, XYZ will just pay QRS the 1 percentage-point difference between the two swap rates.



If interest rates fall so that the variable rate on the original loan is now 5%, Company XYZ will have to pay Company QRS the 2 percentage-point difference on the loan. If interest rates rise to 8%, then QRS would have to pay XYZ the 1 percentage-point difference between the two swap rates. Regardless of how interest rates change, the swap has achieved XYZ's original objective of turning a variable-rate loan into a fixed-rate loan.



Swaps can also be constructed to exchange currency-exchange rate risk or the risk of default on a loan or cash flows from other business activities. Swaps related to the cash flows and potential defaults of mortgage bonds are an extremely popular kind of derivative. In fact, they've been a bit too popular in the past. It was the counterparty risk of swaps like this that eventually spiraled into the credit crisis of 2008.


  Options  

An options contract is similar to a futures contract in that it is an agreement between two parties to buy or sell an asset at a predetermined future date for a specific price. The key difference between options and futures is that with an option, the buyer is not obliged to exercise their agreement to buy or sell. It is an opportunity only, not an obligation, as futures are. As with futures, options may be used to hedge or speculate on the price of the underlying asset.






In terms of timing your right to buy or sell, it depends on the "style" of the option. An American option allows holders to exercise the option rights at any time before and including the day of expiration. A European option can be executed only on the day of expiration. Most stocks and exchange-traded funds have American-style options while equity indexes, including the S&P 500, have European-style options.



Imagine an investor owns 100 shares of a stock worth $50 per share. They believe the stock's value will rise in the future. However, this investor is concerned about potential risks and decides to hedge their position with an option. The investor could buy a put option that gives them the right to sell 100 shares of the underlying stock for $50 per share—known as the strike price—until a specific day in the future—known as the expiration date.



Assume the stock falls in value to $40 per share by expiration and the put option buyer decides to exercise their option and sell the stock for the original strike price of $50 per share. If the put option cost the investor $200 to purchase, then they have only lost the cost of the option because the strike price was equal to the price of the stock when they originally bought the put. A strategy like this is called a protective put because it hedges the stock's downside risk.



Alternatively, assume an investor doesn't own the stock currently worth $50 per share. They believe its value will rise over the next month. This investor could buy a call option that gives them the right to buy the stock for $50 before or at expiration. Assume this call option cost $200 and the stock rose to $60 before expiration. The buyer can now exercise their option and buy a stock worth $60 per share for the $50 strike price for an initial profit of $10 per share. A call option represents 100 shares, so the real profit is $1,000, less the cost of the option—the premium—and any brokerage commission fees.



In both examples, the sellers are obligated to fulfill their side of the contract if the buyers choose to exercise the contract. However, if a stock's price is above the strike price at expiration, the put will be worthless and the seller (the option writer) gets to keep the premium as the option expires. If the stock's price is below the strike price at expiration, the call will be worthless and the call seller will keep the premium.












 Melissa Ling {Copyright} Investopedia, 2019.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Derivatives  
  Advantages  

As the above examples illustrate, derivatives can be a useful tool for businesses and investors alike. They provide a way to do the following:



Lock in pricesHedge against unfavorable movements in ratesMitigate risks



These pluses can often come for a limited cost.



Derivatives also can often be purchased on margin, which means traders use borrowed funds to purchase them. This makes them even less expensive.


  Disadvantages  

Derivatives are difficult to value because they are based on the price of another asset. The risks for OTC derivatives include counterparty risks that are difficult to predict or value. Most derivatives are also sensitive to the following:



Changes in the amount of time to expirationThe cost of holding the underlying assetInterest rates



These variables make it difficult to perfectly match the value of a derivative with the underlying asset.



Because the derivative has no intrinsic value (its value comes only from the underlying asset), it is vulnerable to market sentiment and market risk. It is possible for supply and demand factors to cause a derivative's price and its liquidity to rise and fall, regardless of what is happening with the price of the underlying asset.



Finally, derivatives are usually leveraged instruments, and using leverage cuts both ways. While it can increase the rate of return, it also makes losses mount more quickly.





Pros

Lock in prices
Hedge against risk
Can be leveraged
Diversify portfolio



Cons

Hard to value
Subject to counterparty default (if OTC)
Complex to understand
Sensitive to supply and demand factors







What Are Derivatives?
Derivatives are securities whose value is dependent on or derived from an underlying asset. For example, an oil futures contract is a type of derivative whose value is based on the market price of oil. Derivatives have become increasingly popular in recent decades, with the total value of derivatives outstanding was estimated at $610 trillion at June 30, 2021.




What Are Some Examples of Derivatives?
Common examples of derivatives include futures contracts, options contracts, and credit default swaps. Beyond these, there is a vast quantity of derivative contracts tailored to meet the needs of a diverse range of counterparties. In fact, because many derivatives are traded over-the-counter (OTC), they can in principle be infinitely customized.




What Are the Main Benefits and Risks of Derivatives?
Derivatives can be a very convenient way to achieve financial goals. For example, a company that wants to hedge against its exposure to commodities can do so by buying or selling energy derivatives such as crude oil futures. Similarly, a company could hedge its currency risk by purchasing currency forward contracts. Derivatives can also help investors leverage their positions, such as by buying equities through stock options rather than shares. The main drawbacks of derivatives include counterparty risk, the inherent risks of leverage, and the fact that complicated webs of derivative contracts can lead to systemic risks.
What Is Derived Demand?  

Derived demand, in economics, is the demand for a good or service that results from the demand for a different, or related, good or service. It is a demand for some physical or intangible thing where a market exists for both related goods and services in question. Derived demand can have a significant impact on the derived product's market price.





Key Takeaways

Derived demand is an economic term that refers to the demand for a good or service that results from the demand for a different, or related, good or service.Derived demand is related solely to the demand placed on a product or service for its ability to acquire or produce another good or service.The demand that is derived from the demand for another product can be an excellent investing strategy when used to anticipate the potential market for goods outside of the original product desired.The pick-and-shovel investment strategy guides investors to invest in the technology needed to produce a good or service that is realizing an increase in demand.Certain raw or processed materials, widely used to produce various products, may not see a shift in demand when the demand for a final product changes.


   Understanding Derived Demand  

Derived demand is related solely to the demand placed on a good or service for its ability to acquire or produce another good or service. Derived demand can be spurred by what is required to complete the production of a particular good, including capital, land, labor, and necessary raw materials. In these instances, the demand for raw materials is directly tied to the demand for products that require the raw material for their production.



The demand that is derived from the demand for another product can be an excellent investing strategy when used to anticipate the potential market for goods outside of the desired original product. In addition, if activity in one sector increases, then any sector responsible for the first sector’s success may also see gains.






The principles of derived demand work in both directions. If the demand for a product decreases, then the demand for the goods required to produce that product will also decrease.


   Examples of Derived Demand  
  Pick-and-Shovel Strategy  

The pick-and-shovel investment strategy employs the principles of derived demand because it invests in the underlying technology needed to produce a good or service instead of investing in the final product, itself. It is a way to invest in a specific industry without being exposed to the market risks of the end product.



This strategy is named after the tools used to mine for gold during the California Gold Rush of the 1840s and 1850s. Prospectors needed to buy picks and shovels to mine for gold. So, though there was no guarantee that a prospector would find gold, the companies that sold picks and shovels were earning revenue, and thus were considered good investments during that era. The demand for picks and shovels was derived largely from the demand for gold.


  The Computer Marketplace  

As more businesses become dependent on computer technology and people expand their home-computing capabilities, the demand for computers rises. Consequently, we may see derived demand in the related products of computer peripherals such as computer mice, monitors, external drives, and so on. We also could see derived demand for the internal components of computers, like motherboards and video cards, and the materials required to produce them.






A pick-and-shovel investment strategy is not without risks as the subject investment could experience a loss even when demand for the derived product is high.


   Special Considerations  

Certain production materials may not experience large-scale changes based on increases or decreases in demand for a specific product based on how widely the production materials are used. For example, cotton is widely used to manufacture fabric. But if a particular print or color of cotton fabric is popular during a specific season, and its popularity diminishes over the course of a few seasons, then this may not have a large impact on the demand for cotton in general.




How Is Derived Demand Determined?
Derived demand occurs when the demand for a good or service produces a corresponding demand for a related good or service. For example, when demand for a good or service increases, demand for the related good or service increases, and vice versa.




Why Is Derived Demand Significant?
Demand for a good or service affects demand for a related good or service and the raw materials, labor, technology, and processed materials used to produce the related product or service. In addition, with an increased demand for raw materials, international trade may be created or boosted, and indirectly, as production increases, demand for energy increases. Companies can anticipate and plan for demand shifts when demand for a related or complimentary product or service changes.




What Is Derived vs. Direct Demand?
Direct demand is the demand for a final product or service and is not affected by the demand for other products or services; on the other hand, derived demand is the demand for a product or service based on the demand for another product or service.




What Are the Main Components of Derived Demand?
Derived demand consists of three main components: labor, raw materials, and processed materials. Labor is the work employed to produce final goods and services. Raw materials are the resources used to manufacture a product or service, and processed materials are the products created from raw materials and labor. When derived demand increases or decreases, the demand for these components follow.


   The Bottom Line  

Derived demand occurs when demand for a good or service affects demand for a related good or service. Comprised of raw materials, processed goods, and labor, derived demand can influence the demand for its associated components, the technology needed for production, and the derived product's market price. However, demand shifts may not significantly affect the demand for raw and processed materials that produce many other products. For investors, the demand for a final product or service helps predict demand for related goods or services, making for a sound investment strategy.
What Is a Descending Triangle?  

A descending triangle is a chart pattern used in technical analysis created by drawing one trend line connecting a series of lower highs and a second horizontal trend line connecting a series of lows.



A regular descending triangle pattern is commonly considered a bearish chart pattern or a continuation pattern with an established downtrend. However, a descending triangle pattern can also be bullish, with a breakout in the opposite direction, and is known as a reversal pattern.





Key Takeaways


A descending triangle signals traders to take a short position to accelerate a breakdown.
A descending triangle is detectable by trend lines drawn for the highs and lows on a chart.
A descending triangle is the counterpart of an ascending triangle, another trend line-based chart pattern used by technical analysts.



   What Does a Descending Triangle Tell You?  

A popular chart pattern used by traders, descending triangles clearly show that demand for an asset, derivative, or commodity is weakening. When the price breaks below the lower support, it indicates that downward momentum is likely to continue.



Technical traders have the opportunity to make substantial profits over a brief period. They often watch for a move below the lower support trend line, suggesting that downward momentum is building and a breakdown is imminent. Traders often enter into short positions to further lower the asset's price.


   How to Identify a Descending Triangle  

The descending triangle is one of three triangle patterns used in technical analysis.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



A descending triangle pattern has the following features:



An existing downtrend before the descending triangle pattern appears.A descending upper trendline can be drawn by connecting the upper points and indicates that the sellers are pushing prices downward.The lower horizontal trendline acts as support as prices approach this level until the breakout occurs.The downward trend continues after the breakout and is evident below the lower trendline.


   How to Trade a Descending Triangle  

Traders often initiate a short position following a high volume breakdown from lower trend line support in a descending triangle chart pattern.



In general, the price target for the chart pattern is equal to the entry price minus the vertical height between the two trend lines at the time of the breakdown. The upper trend line resistance also serves as a stop-loss level for traders to limit their potential losses.



Traders often choose the simplest way to use the descending triangle pattern and buy the breakout of the triangle, and it is one of several common strategies to take profits using this pattern.


  Descending Triangle Pattern Breakout Strategy  

This strategy anticipates a breakout from the descending triangle pattern and uses a combination of trading volumes and asserting the trend to capture short-term profits. When a stock is in a downtrend or a consolidation phase, traders watch for lower highs and lower lows being formed.


  Descending Triangles With Heikin-Ashi Charts  

Heikin-Ashi charts can apply to any market and are a trading tool used in conjunction with technical analysis to assist in identifying trends. The Heikin Ashi candlesticks turn bullish before the breakout. In this strategy, traders watch for the descending triangle pattern to form and wait for the bullish trend to begin using the Heikin Ashi charts. 


  Descending Triangle With Moving Averages  

Traders can combine price techniques, like the moving average, and chart patterns with technical indicators. In this strategy, traders use the descending triangle pattern to anticipate potential breakouts, and the moving average indicators trigger the signal to initiate a trade.


  Descending Triangle Reversal Pattern—Top  

This pattern emerges when volume declines and new stock price highs are limited. The pattern indicates that the bullish phase is ending. The trading period begins when the descending triangle reversal pattern is revealed ahead of the breakout.


  Descending Triangle Reversal Pattern—Bottom  

The descending triangle reversal pattern at the bottom end of a downtrend is where the price action stalls and a horizontal support level mark a bottom. If the price action breaks to the upside from the descending triangle reversal pattern at the bottom, a trader can choose long positions.


   Descending Triangles vs. Ascending Triangles  

Both the ascending and descending triangle are continuation patterns. The descending triangle has a horizontal lower trend line and a descending upper trend line. The ascending triangle has a horizontal trend line on the highs and a rising trend line on the lows.



Triangles reveal an opportunity to short and suggest a profit target, so both triangles are just different takes on a potential breakdown. Ascending triangles can also form at the reversal of a downtrend but are more commonly viewed as a bullish continuation pattern.


   The Limitations of a Descending Triangle  

Since no chart pattern is perfect and analysis is often subjective, using descending triangles has limitations. A false breakdown may occur, or trend lines may need to be redrawn if the price action breaks out in the opposite direction. If a breakdown doesn't occur, the stock could rebound to re-test the upper trend line resistance before making another move lower to re-test lower trend line support levels. The more often that the price touches the support and resistance levels, the more reliable the chart pattern.




What Is Descending Triangle Breakout?
Descending triangles are a bearish pattern that anticipates a downward trend breakout. A breakout occurs when the price of an asset moves above a resistance area, or below a support area. 




What Is the Difference Between Breakdown and Breakout In Technical Analysis?
A breakout refers to price movement above a resistance area or below a support area. Breakouts indicate the potential for the price to start trending in the breakout direction. A breakdown is a downward move in a security's price, usually, through an identified level of support, that predicts further declines. 




What Is the Difference Between Descending Triangle and Falling Wedge?
The falling wedge appears in a downtrend and indicates a bullish reversal. A descending triangle appears after a bearish trend with a probable breakdown continuation. The falling wedge appears in a downtrend but indicates a bullish reversal. 


   The Bottom Line  

The descending triangle is a chart pattern used in technical analysis. The pattern usually forms at the end of a downtrend but can also occur as a consolidation in an uptrend. A regular descending triangle pattern is commonly considered a bearish chart pattern with an established downtrend. A descending triangle pattern, however, may be bullish, with a breakout in the opposite direction, known as a reversal pattern.
What Are Descriptive Statistics?  

Descriptive statistics are brief informational coefficients that summarize a given data set, which can be either a representation of the entire population or a sample of a population. Descriptive statistics are broken down into measures of central tendency and measures of variability (spread). Measures of central tendency include the mean, median, and mode, while measures of variability include standard deviation, variance, minimum and maximum variables, kurtosis, and skewness.





Key Takeaways

Descriptive statistics summarizes or describes the characteristics of a data set.Descriptive statistics consists of three basic categories of measures: measures of central tendency, measures of variability (or spread), and frequency distribution.Measures of central tendency describe the center of the data set (mean, median, mode).Measures of variability describe the dispersion of the data set (variance, standard deviation).Measures of frequency distribution describe the occurrence of data within the data set (count). 












Jessica Olah


   Understanding Descriptive Statistics  

Descriptive statistics, in short, help describe and understand the features of a specific data set by giving short summaries about the sample and measures of the data. The most recognized types of descriptive statistics are measures of center: the mean, median, and mode, which are used at almost all levels of math and statistics. The mean, or the average, is calculated by adding all the figures within the data set and then dividing by the number of figures within the set.



For example, the sum of the following data set is 20: (2, 3, 4, 5, 6). The mean is 4 (20/5). The mode of a data set is the value appearing most often, and the median is the figure situated in the middle of the data set. It is the figure separating the higher figures from the lower figures within a data set. However, there are less common types of descriptive statistics that are still very important.



People use descriptive statistics to repurpose hard-to-understand quantitative insights across a large data set into bite-sized descriptions. A student's grade point average (GPA), for example, provides a good understanding of descriptive statistics. The idea of a GPA is that it takes data points from a wide range of exams, classes, and grades, and averages them together to provide a general understanding of a student's overall academic performance. A student's personal GPA reflects their mean academic performance.






Descriptive statistics, especially in fields such as medicine, often visually depict data using scatter plots, histograms, line graphs, or stem and leaf displays.


   Types of Descriptive Statistics  

All descriptive statistics are either measures of central tendency or measures of variability, also known as measures of dispersion.


  Central Tendency  

Measures of central tendency focus on the average or middle values of data sets, whereas measures of variability focus on the dispersion of data. These two measures use graphs, tables and general discussions to help people understand the meaning of the analyzed data.



Measures of central tendency describe the center position of a distribution for a data set. A person analyzes the frequency of each data point in the distribution and describes it using the mean, median, or mode, which measures the most common patterns of the analyzed data set.


  Measures of Variability  

Measures of variability (or the measures of spread) aid in analyzing how dispersed the distribution is for a set of data. For example, while the measures of central tendency may give a person the average of a data set, it does not describe how the data is distributed within the set.



So while the average of the data maybe 65 out of 100, there can still be data points at both 1 and 100. Measures of variability help communicate this by describing the shape and spread of the data set. Range, quartiles, absolute deviation, and variance are all examples of measures of variability.



Consider the following data set: 5, 19, 24, 62, 91, 100. The range of that data set is 95, which is calculated by subtracting the lowest number (5) in the data set from the highest (100).


  Distribution  

Distribution (or frequency distribution) refers to the quantity of times a data point occurs. Alternatively, it is the measurement of a data point failing to occur. Consider a data set: male, male, female, female, female, other. The distribution of this data can be classified as:



The number of males in the data set is 2.The number of females in the data set is 3.The number of individuals identifying as other is 1.The number of non-males is 4. 


   Univariate vs. Bivariate  

In descriptive statistics, univariate data analyzes only one variable. It is used to identify characteristics of a single trait and is not used to analyze any relationships or causations.



For example, imagine a room full of high school students. Say you wanted to gather the average age of the individuals in the room. This univariate data is only dependent on one factor: each person's age. By gathering this one piece of information from each person and dividing by the total number of people, you can determine the average age.



Bivariate data, on the other hand, attempts to link two variables by searching for correlation. Two types of data are collected, and the relationship between the two pieces of information is analyzed together. Because multiple variables are analyzed, this approach may also be referred to as multivariate.



Let's say each high school student in the example above takes a college assessment test, and we want to see whether older students are testing better than younger students. In addition to gathering the age of the students, we need to gather each student's test score. Then, using data analytics, we mathematically or graphically depict whether there is a relationship between student age and test scores.






The preparation and reporting of financial statements is an example of descriptive statistics Analyzing that financial information to make decisions on the future is inferential statistics.


   Descriptive Statistics vs. Inferential Statistics  

Descriptive statistics have a different function than inferential statistics, data sets that are used to make decisions or apply characteristics from one data set to another.



Imagine another example where a company sells hot sauce. The company gathers data such as the count of sales, average quantity purchased per transaction, and average sale per day of the week. All of this information is descriptive, as it tells a story of what actually happened in the past. In this case, it is not being used beyond being informational.



Let's say the same company wants to roll out a new hot sauce. It gathers the same sales data above, but it crafts the information to make predictions about what the sales of the new hot sauce will be. The act of using descriptive statistics and applying characteristics to a different data set makes the data set inferential statistics. We are no longer simply summarizing data; we are using it predict what will happen regarding an entirely different body of data (the new hot sauce product).




What Is Descriptive Statistics?
Descriptive statistics is a means of describing features of a data set by generating summaries about data samples. It's often depicted as a summary of data shown that explains the contents of data. For example, a population census may include descriptive statistics regarding the ratio of men and women in a specific city.




What Are Examples of Descriptive Statistics?
Descriptive statistics are informational and meant to describe the actual characteristics of a data set. When analyzing numbers regarding the prior Major League Baseball season, descriptive statistics including the highest batting average for a single player, the number of runs allowed per team, and the average wins per division.




What Is the Main Purpose of Descriptive Statistics?
The main purpose of descriptive statistics is to provide information about a data set. In the example above, there are hundreds of baseballs players that engage in thousands of games. Descriptive statistics summarizes the large amount of data into several useful bits of information.




What Are the Types of Descriptive Statistics?
The three main types of descriptive statistics are frequency distribution, central tendency, and variability of a data set. The frequency distribution records how often data occurs, central tendency records the data's center point of distribution, and variability of a data set records its degree of dispersion.




Can Descriptive Statistics Be Used to Make Inference or Predictions?
No. While these descriptives help understand data attributes, inferential statistical techniques—a separate branch of statistics—are required to understand how variables interact with one another in a data set.


   The Bottom Line  

Descriptive statistics refers to the analysis, summary, and communication of findings that describe a data set. Often not useful for decision-making, descriptive statistics still hold value in explaining high-level summaries of a set of information such as the mean, median, mode, variance, range, and count of information.
What Is Devaluation?  

Devaluation is the deliberate downward adjustment of the value of a country's money relative to another currency or standard. It is a monetary policy tool used by countries with a fixed exchange rate or semi-fixed exchange rate.





Key Takeaways

Devaluation is the deliberate downward adjustment of a country's currency value.The government issuing the currency can decide to devalue its currency.Devaluing a currency reduces the cost of a country's exports and can help shrink trade deficits.


   Devaluation Strategy  

By devaluing its currency, a country makes its money cheaper and boosts exports, rendering them more competitive in the global market. Conversely, foreign products become more expensive, so the demand for imports falls. Governments use devaluation to combat a trade imbalance and have exports exceed imports.



As exports increase and imports decrease, there is typically a better balance of payments as the trade deficit shrinks. A country that devalues its currency can reduce its deficit because of the greater demand for its less expensive exports.






Devaluation is the opposite of revaluation, which refers to the readjustment of a currency's exchange rate.


   Consequences of Devaluation  

While devaluing a currency may be an option, it can have negative consequences.



Increasing the price of imports protects domestic industries, but they may become less efficient without the pressure of competition.
Higher exports relative to imports can also increase aggregate demand, leading to inflation.
Manufacturers may have less incentive to cut costs because exports are cheaper, increasing the cost of products and services over time.


   Currency Wars  

There has been historical conflict between countries such as China and the United States over the valuation of their currencies. A monetary policy that stresses devaluation allows a country to remain competitive in the global trading marketplace. Devaluation also encourages investment, drawing in foreign investors to cheaper assets.






In August 2023, Fitch Ratings downgraded the United States' Long-Term Foreign-Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) to "AA+" from "AAA." The downgrade reflects the expected fiscal deterioration over the next three years, a high and growing general government debt burden, and the erosion of governance relative to "AA" and "AAA" peers over the last two decades resulting in repeated debt limit standoffs and untimely resolutions.



The Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 requires the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury to analyze the exchange rate policies of other countries and determine if they are manipulating the exchange rate between their currency and the United States dollar. In 2019, Secretary Mnuchin found that China devalued its currency to gain an unfair competitive advantage in international trade.



However, in 2023, following several years of trade woes caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, China’s central bank hopes to keep the Chinese yuan from weakening too quickly against the U.S. dollar as imports are becoming more expensive relative to its exports. The offshore yuan traded around 7.15 per dollar in May 2023, and Chinese exports fell more than expected, reflecting the country’s slow recovery path.








How Do Tariffs Combat Devaluation?
When imported goods become less expensive and attractive to consumers, a country may impose tariffs to increase the cost of those goods to reclaim demand for domestic products.




How Does Devaluation Affect International Trade?
Devaluation causes a shift in international trade, changing the balance of trade in favor of the devaluing country. Revising how much one currency is worth relative to another means the relative cost of goods from each country also changes.




What Is the Difference Between Devaluation and Depreciation?
Devaluation occurs when a government changes the fixed exchange rate of its currency. Most currencies traded on foreign exchange markets are not pegged to another currency, and the market determines their value with floating exchange rates. If the demand for one currency changes relative to another due to market forces and loses value, it is called depreciation. 


   The Bottom Line  

Devaluation occurs when a country creates a downward adjustment of its currency value to balance trade. Devaluing a currency reduces the cost of a country's exports and makes imports less attractive. As exports increase and imports decrease, there is typically a better balance of payments as the trade deficit shrinks.
What Is a Developed Economy?  

A developed economy is typically characteristic of a developed country with a relatively high level of economic growth and security. Standard criteria for evaluating a country's level of development are income per capita or per capita gross domestic product, the level of industrialization, the general standard of living, and the amount of technological infrastructure.



Noneconomic factors, such as the human development index (HDI), which quantifies a country's levels of education, literacy, and health into a single figure, can also be used to evaluate an economy or the degree of development.





Key Takeaways

Countries with relatively high levels of economic growth and security are considered to have developed economies.Common criteria for evaluation include income per capita or per capita gross domestic product.If per capita gross domestic product is high but a country has poor infrastructure and income inequality, it would not be considered a developed economy.Noneconomic factors, such as the human development index, may also be used as criteria.Developing economies are often helped by globalization to reach improved levels of income and increased standards of living.


   Understanding a Developed Economy  

The most common metric used to determine if an economy is developed or developing is per capita gross domestic product (GDP), although no strict level exists for an economy to be considered either developing or developed. Some economists consider $12,000 to $15,000 per capita GDP to be sufficient for developed status while others do not consider a country developed unless its per capita GDP is above $25,000 or $30,000. The U.S. per capita GDP in 2019 was $65,111.



For countries that are difficult to categorize, economists turn to other factors to determine development status. Standard-of-living measures, such as the infant mortality rate and life expectancy, are useful although there are no set boundaries for these measures either. However, most developed economies suffer fewer than 10 infant deaths per 1,000 live births, and their citizens live to be 75 or older on average.



A high per capita GDP alone does not confer developed economy status without other factors. For example, the United Nations still considers Qatar, with one of the world's highest per-capita GDP in 2021 at around $62,000, a developing economy because the nation has extreme income inequality, a lack of infrastructure, and limited educational opportunities for non-affluent citizens.



Examples of countries with developed economies include the United States, Canada, and most of western Europe, including the United Kingdom and France.


   The Human Development Index  

The UN's Human Development Index (HDI) looks at three standards of living criteria—literacy rates, access to education, and access to health care—and quantifies this data into a standardized figure between zero and one. Most developed countries have HDI figures above 0.8.



The United Nations, in its annual HDI rankings, reports that in 2020, Norway had the world's highest HDI at 0.957. The United States ranked 17th at 0.926. The top 10 countries in the HDI index were Norway, Ireland, Switzerland, Hong Kong, Iceland, Germany, Sweden, Australia, Netherlands, and Denmark. Niger had the lowest human development index score at 0.394 out of 189 countries.


   Developing Economies  

Terms such as "emerging countries," "least-developed countries," and "developing countries" are commonly used to refer to countries that do not enjoy the same level of economic security, industrialization, and growth as developed countries. The term "third-world country" to describe a state is today considered archaic and offensive.



The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development notes that the world's least-developed countries are "deemed highly disadvantaged in their development process—many of them for geographical reasons—and (face) more than other countries the risk of failing to come out of poverty."



It is often claimed by proponents of globalization, that globalization is helping to lift developing economies out of poverty and onto a path of improved standards of living, higher wages, and use of modern technology. These benefits have primarily been witnessed in the Asia-Pacific region. Though globalization has not taken root in all developing economies, it has shown to improve the economies in the ones that it has. That being said, globalization does come with drawbacks as well that need to be assessed when foreign investments flow into a developing economy.
What Is Development Economics?  

Development economics is a branch of economics that focuses on improving fiscal, economic, and social conditions in developing countries. Development economics considers factors such as health, education, working conditions, domestic and international policies, and market conditions with a focus on improving conditions in the world's poorest countries.



The field also examines both macroeconomic and microeconomic factors relating to the structure of developing economies and domestic and international economic growth.





Key Takeaways

Development economics is a branch of economics whose goal is to better the fiscal, economic, and social conditions of developing countries.Areas that development economics focuses on include health, education, working conditions, and market conditions.Development economics seeks to understand and shape macro and microeconomic policies in order to lift poor countries out of poverty.The application of development economics is complex and varied as the cultural, social, and economic frameworks of every nation is different.Four common theories of development economics include mercantilism, nationalism, the linear stages of growth model, and structural-change theory.


   Understanding Development Economics  

Development economics studies the transformation of emerging nations into more prosperous nations. Strategies for transforming a developing economy tend to be unique because the social and political backgrounds of countries can vary dramatically. Not only that, but the cultural and economic frameworks of every nation is different also, such as women's rights and child labor laws.



Students of economics, and professional economists, create theories and methods that guide practitioners in determining practices and policies that can be used and implemented at the domestic and international policy level.



Some aspects of development economics include determining to what extent rapid population growth helps or hinders development, the structural transformation of economies, and the role of education and healthcare in development.



They also include international trade, globalization, sustainable development, the effects of epidemics, such as HIV, and the impact of catastrophes on economic and human development.



Prominent development economists include Jeffrey Sachs, Hernando de Soto Polar, and Nobel Laureates Simon Kuznets, Amartya Sen, and Joseph Stiglitz.


   Types of Development Economics  
  Mercantilism  

Mercantilism is thought to be one of the earliest forms of development economics that created practices to promote the success of a nation. It was a dominant economic theory practiced in Europe from the 16th to the 18th centuries. The theory promoted augmenting state power by lowering exposure to rival national powers.



Like political absolutism and absolute monarchies, mercantilism promoted government regulation by prohibiting colonies from transacting with other nations.



Mercantilism monopolized markets with staple ports and banned gold and silver exports. It believed the higher the supply of gold and silver, the more wealthy it would be. In general, it sought a trade surplus (exports greater than imports), did not allow the use of foreign ships for trade, and it optimized the use of domestic resources.


  Economic Nationalism  

Economic nationalism reflects policies that focus on domestic control of capital formation, the economy, and labor, using tariffs or other barriers. It restricts the movement of capital, goods, and labor.



Economic nationalists do not generally agree with the benefits of globalization and unlimited free trade. They focus on a policy that is isolationist so that the industries within a nation are able to grow without the threat of competition from established companies in other countries.



The economy of the early United States is a prime example of economic nationalism. As a new nation, it sought to develop itself without relying so much on outside influences. It enacted measures, such as high tariffs, so its own industries would grow unimpeded.


  Linear Stages of Growth Model  

The linear stages of growth model was used to revitalize the European economy after World War II.



This model states that economic growth can only stem from industrialization. The model also agrees that local institutions and social attitudes can restrict growth if these factors influence people's savings rates and investments.



The linear stages of growth model portrays an appropriately designed addition of capital partnered with public intervention. This injection of capital and restrictions from the public sector leads to economic development and industrialization.


  Structural-Change Theory  

The structural-change theory focuses on changing the overall economic structure of a nation, which aims to shift society from being a primarily agrarian one to a primarily industrial one.



For example, Russia before the communist revolution was an agrarian society. When the communists overthrew the royal family and took power, they rapidly industrialized the nation, allowing it to eventually become a superpower.




What Is Development Economics Used for?
Development economics is the study of how emerging nations become more financially stable. It can be used as a tool for students and economists working to develop policies that can be used in creating domestic and international policy.




What Is the Goal of Development Economics?
Ultimately, the study of development economics is meant to help better the financial, economic and social circumstances in developing countries through the enactment of certain structures and policies.




What Are the 4 Main Topics in Development Economics?
The topics, or types of development economics include mercantilism, economic nationalism, linear stages of growth model, and structural-change theory.


   The Bottom Line  

Development economics examines things like the structure of domestic and international economies in order to improve conditions in developing countries. There are many theories of development economics. While mercantilism, nationalism, linear stages of growth, and structural-change theory are four of the most common, this field of study continues to develop and change.
What Is the Diamonds ETF?  

Diamonds is an informal term for an index-based exchange-traded fund (ETF) known as the SPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF. The Diamonds ETF trades on the NYSE Arca exchange under the ticker symbol DIA. The ETF's objective is to provide returns that mirror the price and yield performance of the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA).





Key Takeaways

The SPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF is colloquially called the Diamond ETF, also known as the Dow Jones Diamond Index.Since its launch in 1998, the Diamond ETF has become popular among investors as a way of achieving approximately the same returns as owning the individual stocks in the underlying Dow Jones Industrial Average.Owning shares of Diamonds allows investors to attain the diversity of the DJIA with relatively low transaction fees.


   Understanding Diamonds  

Launched in 1998, the Dow Jones Diamonds Index is managed by State Street Global Advisors. Since its launch, it has become popular among investors as a way of achieving approximately the same returns as owning the individual stocks in the underlying Dow Jones Industrial Average. Investors can buy and sell shares of the ETF, just like with common stocks. The fund's holdings consist of the 30 blue-chip stocks in the DJIA, in the same price-weighted proportion as they appear in the DJIA, as well as some cash holdings.﻿﻿


   The Popularity of the Diamonds ETF  

Diamonds are a popular and generally well-regarded fund. Owning shares of Diamonds allows investors to attain the diversity of the DJIA with relatively low transaction fees. The fund is highly regarded for its relatively low gross expense ratio of 0.16%. Diamonds, like other ETFs, may offer some investors tax advantages over owning mutual funds. The fund's large size provides ample share liquidity, and investors can buy or sell shares any time the exchange is open. The ETF's high market capitalization and liquidity have spawned a variety of options chains from which traders can choose. The NYSE allows investors to trade Diamond shares using margin, as well as to short-sell Diamond shares.﻿﻿


   Diamonds ETF Statistics  

As of Sept. 10, 2020, the fund had total net assets of more than $22.65 billion, with nearly 81 million shares outstanding. The fund's weighted average market cap was about $326.8 billion, at a price-earnings ratio of about 22.25. The fund has a 10-year net asset value of 13.60%.﻿﻿


   Investing in Diamond Gemstones  

Diamonds as gemstones--not the ETF--are generally considered a poor investment vehicle, mainly due to the illiquidity of the market, a lack of price transparency, high transaction fees, and high risk related to quality assurance. Investors who want exposure to diamonds could reduce some of the risks by owning GEMS, an ETF that invests in the diamond and gemstone industry. Many wealthy individuals consider diamonds a good investment because they can buy high-priced stones with relatively low transaction costs, and they can enjoy the diamonds while their value grows, as with antiques or art.
What Is a Digital Currency?  

Digital currency is a form of currency that is available only in digital or electronic form. It is also called digital money, electronic money, electronic currency, or cybercash.





Key Takeaways

Digital currencies are currencies that are only accessible with computers or mobile phones because they only exist in electronic form.Typical digital currencies do not require intermediaries and are often the cheapest method for trading currencies.All cryptocurrencies are digital currencies, but not all digital currencies are cryptocurrencies.Some of the advantages of digital currencies are that they enable seamless transfer of value and can make transaction costs cheaper. Some of the disadvantages of digital currencies are that they can volatile to trade and are susceptible to hacks. 


   Understanding Digital Currencies  

Digital currencies do not have physical attributes and are available only in digital form. Transactions involving digital currencies are made using computers or electronic wallets connected to the internet or designated networks. In contrast, physical currencies, such as banknotes and minted coins, are tangible, meaning they have definite physical attributes and characteristics. Transactions involving such currencies are made possible only when their holders have physical possession of these currencies.



Digital currencies have utility similar to physical currencies. They can be used to purchase goods and pay for services. They can also find restricted use among certain online communities, such as gaming sites, gambling portals, or social networks.



Digital currencies also enable instant transactions that can be seamlessly executed across borders. For instance, it is possible for a person located in the United States to make payments in digital currency to a counterparty residing in Singapore, provided they are both connected to the same network.


   Characteristics of Digital Currencies  

As mentioned earlier, digital currencies only exist in digital form. They do not have a physical equivalent. Digital currencies can be centralized or decentralized. Fiat currency, which exists in physical form, is a centralized system of production and distribution by a central bank and government agencies. Prominent cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin and Ethereum, are examples of decentralized digital currency systems.



Digital currencies can transfer value. Using digital currencies requires a mental shift in the existing framework for currencies, where they are associated with sale and purchase transactions for goods and services.



Digital currencies, however, extend the concept. For example, a gaming network token can extend the life of a player or provide them with extra superpowers. This is not a purchase or sale transaction but, instead, represents a transfer of value.


   Types of Digital Currencies  

Digital currency is an overarching term that can be used to describe different types of currencies that exist in the electronic realm. Broadly, there are three different types of currencies:


  Cryptocurrencies  

Cryptocurrencies are digital currencies that use cryptography to secure and verify transactions in a network. Cryptography is also used to manage and control the creation of such currencies. Bitcoin and Ethereum are examples of cryptocurrencies. Depending on the jurisdiction, cryptocurrencies may or may not be regulated.






Cryptocurrencies are considered virtual currencies because they are unregulated and exist only in digital form.


  Virtual Currencies  

Virtual currencies are unregulated digital currencies controlled by developers or a founding organization consisting of various stakeholders involved in the process. Virtual currencies can also be algorithmically controlled by a defined network protocol. An example of a virtual currency is a gaming network token whose economics is defined and controlled by developers.


  Central Bank Digital Currencies  

Central bank digital currencies (CBDCs) are regulated digital currencies issued by the central bank of a country. A CBDC can be a supplement or a replacement to traditional fiat currency. Unlike fiat currency, which exists in both physical and digital form, a CBDC exists purely in digital form. England, Sweden, and Uruguay are a few of the nations that are considering plans to launch a digital version of their native fiat currencies.



The use of CBDCs has been suggested as a means of enhancing the speed and security of centralized payment systems, lowering the costs and dangers of handling cash, and promoting greater financial inclusion for people and companies without access to conventional banking services. They may also make cross-border payments easier and lessen the need for foreign exchange.



The introduction of a U.S. CBDC presents a number of difficulties. For instance, for Congress to authorized the issuance of a CBDC, there must be robust privacy and security infrastructures put in place. The government must also weight the possible impacts on monetary policy and the operational management of the switch from conventional money to a CBDC.










Digital Currencies
Virtual Currencies
Cryptocurrencies


Regulated or unregulated currency that is available only in digital or electronic form.
An unregulated digital currency that is controlled by its developer(s), its founding organization, or its defined network protocol.
A virtual currency that uses cryptography to secure and verify transactions as well as to manage and control the creation of new currency units.





   Advantages of Digital Currencies  

The advantages of digital currencies are as follows:


  Fast Transfer and Transaction Times  

Because digital currencies generally exist within the same network and accomplish transfers without intermediaries, the amount of time required for transfers involving digital currencies is extremely fast.



As payments in digital currencies are made directly between the transacting parties without the need for any intermediaries, the transactions are usually instantaneous and low-cost. This fares better compared to traditional payment methods that involve banks or clearinghouses. Digital-currency-based electronic transactions also bring in the necessary record keeping and transparency in dealings.


  No Physical Manufacturing Required  

Many requirements for physical currencies, such as the establishment of physical manufacturing facilities, are absent for digital currencies. Such currencies are also immune to physical defects or soiling that are present in physical currency.


  Monetary and Fiscal Policy Implementation  

Under the current currency regime, the Fed works through a series of intermediaries—banks and financial institutions—to circulate money into an economy. CBDCs can help circumvent this mechanism and enable a government agency to disburse payments directly to citizens. They also simplify the production and distribution methods by obviating the need for physical manufacturing and transportation of currency notes from one location to another.


  Cheaper Transaction Costs  

Digital currencies enable direct interactions within a network. For example, a customer can pay a shopkeeper directly as long as they are situated in the same network. Even costs involving digital currency transactions between different networks are relatively cheaper as compared to those with physical or fiat currencies. By cutting out middlemen that seek economic rent from processing the transaction, digital currencies can make the overall cost of a transaction cheaper.


  Decentralized  

Digital currencies may be decentralized. This means they are not controlled by any government or financial institution. Digital currencies that are decentralized make them more resistant to government interference, censorship, and manipulation. Decentralization means true control over the digital currency is spread over a broader range of owners or users.


  Privacy  

Due to the fact that transactions with digital currencies are not linked to personal data, users are given a high level of privacy and anonymity. They are therefore very helpful for those who want to protect the confidentiality of their financial dealings.


  Accessible Around the World  

Anyone with an internet connection can utilize digital currencies from anywhere in the globe. These services are therefore particularly helpful for people who do not have access to conventional banking institutions. In addition, many of these banking services only need access to an internet connection; for geographical areas that are not as developed with a strong financial infrastructure, digital currencies may be a stronger option.


   Disadvantages of Digital Currencies  

The disadvantages of digital currencies are as follows:


  Storage and Infrastructure Issues  

While they do not require physical wallets, digital currencies have their own set of requirements for storage and processing. For example, an Internet connection is necessary as are smartphones and services related to their provisioning. Online wallets with robust security are also necessary to store digital currencies.


  Hacking Potential  

Their digital provenance makes digital currencies susceptible to hacking. Hackers can steal digital currencies from online wallets or change the protocol for digital currencies, making them unusable. As the numerous cases of hacks in cryptocurrencies have proved, securing digital systems and currencies is a work-in-progress.


  Volatile Value  

Digital currencies used for trading can have wild price swings. For example, the decentralized nature of cryptocurrencies has resulted in a profusion of thinly capitalized digital currencies whose prices are prone to sudden changes based on investor whims.



Other digital currencies have followed a similar price trajectory during their initial days. For example, Linden dollars used in the online game Second Life had a similarly volatile price trajectory in its early days.


  Limited Acceptance  

Digital currencies are still not commonly used as a means of payment by retailers and other enterprises. Because of this, using them for routine transactions may be challenging. Though digital currencies have gained gained in popularity, there are still limited functionalities in everyday transactions in many places.


  Irreversibility  

On a digital currency network, transactions are irreversible. This means that once a transaction has been completed, it cannot be undone. In circumstances where a mistake or fraud has taken place, this may be a disadvantage.



This is also a tremendous disadvantage for those new to the digital currency space, as there is a substantial learning curve. Because there is no central oversight area for many digital currencies, new users can't simply go to their local branch to receive help for many digital currencies.




Pros and Cons of Digital Currencies

Pros

Faster transaction times.
Do not require physical manufacturing.
Lower transaction costs.
Make it easier to implement monetary and fiscal policy.
Offers greater privacy than other forms of currency.



Cons

Can be difficult to store and use.
Can be hacked.
Can have volatile prices that result in lost value.
May not allow for irrevocability of transactions.
Still has limited acceptability.





   Central Bank Digital Currencies Around the World  

Some major central banks around the world have begun looking issuing their own digital currencies. Some of the larger, more notable examples include the countries below.



China: Since 2020, the People's Bank of China (PBOC) has been testing the digital yuan, also known as e-CNY, in a number of Chinese localities. Millions of Chinese citizens currently utilize the digital yuan, which is intended to be used for retail transactions.
Sweden: Also since 2020, Sweden's Riksbank has been testing the e-krona digital currency. The e-krona is being created to complement Sweden's diminishing use of currency and to give the general public access to a safe and effective payment system.
EU: A digital euro that may be issued by the European Central Bank (ECB) and used for retail transactions within the Eurozone is being investigated.
England: The Bank of England is looking into the prospect of launching the "Britcoin" cryptocurrency. The UK's payment system would be backed by a digital currency, which could also reduce the nation's dependence on cash.
Canada: The Bank of Canada has been conducting research and consultations on the idea of creating a CBDC.


   Future of Digital Currencies  

Cryptocurrencies like bitcoin have exploded in value, but they are largely used for speculation or to buy other speculative assets. Although there have been some signs of merchant adoption in countries like El Salvador, the high volatility and complexity of these currencies make them impractical for most daily applications.



Many companies have tried to reduce volatility by introducing stablecoins, whose value is fixed to the price of fiat currency. This is usually done by depositing an equivalent amount of fiat, which can be used to redeem the tokens. However, stablecoin issuers such as Tether have used these deposits on more speculative investments, raising concerns that they are vulnerable to a market crash.



Another possible application is in central bank digital currencies, which could be issued by a country's bank or monetary authority. These would be used and stored in online wallets, similar to cryptocurrencies, but allowing the central bank to issue and freeze tokens at will. Several countries, such as China, have proposed digital versions of their currencies.




Can You Invest in Central Bank Digital Currencies?
CBDCs are unlikely to be useful for speculative investments since they will likely be pegged to the value of an underlying currency. However, it will still be possible to invest in those currencies through the forex markets.




How Do You Buy China's Digital Yuan?
The digital yuan, or e-CNY, is only available to Chinese cities living in 23 major cities. Users can buy digital yuan by downloading an app and connecting it to their bank accounts.




How Do You Make a Digital Currency?
Most digital currencies are created by issuing them on Ethereum or another blockchain capable of running smart contracts. The issuer must first decide how many tokens to issue, and any special rules that limit transactions or ownership. Once these choices are coded into the smart contract, the issuer pays a small amount of cryptocurrency to pay for the computational cost of issuing the tokens.


   The Bottom Line  

Digital currencies are assets that are only used for electronic transactions. They do not have any physical form, although they can be exchanged for regular money or other assets. Although the most popular digital currencies are cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, many national governments are considering issuing their own centralized digital currencies.
What Is Digital Marketing?  

The term digital marketing refers to the use of digital channels to market products and services to consumers. This type of marketing involves the use of websites, mobile devices, social media, search engines, and other similar channels. Digital marketing became popular with the advent of the internet in the 1990s.



Digital marketing involves some of the same principles as traditional marketing and is often considered an additional way for companies to approach consumers and understand their behavior. Companies often combine traditional and digital marketing techniques in their strategies. But digital marketing comes with its own set of challenges, including implicit bias.





Key Takeaways

Digital marketing involves marketing to consumers through digital channels, including websites, mobile devices, and social media platforms.This form of marketing is different from internet marketing, which is exclusively done on websites.Digital marketing relates to attracting customers via email, content marketing, search platforms, social media, and more.One of the biggest challenges digital marketers face is how to set themselves apart in a world that is oversaturated with digital marketing ads.Digital marketing comes with various challenges, including implicit bias.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   How Digital Marketing Works  

Marketing refers to activities that a company uses to promote its products and services and to improve its market share. To be successful, it requires a combination of advertising savvy, sales, and the ability to deliver goods to end-users. Professionals, known as marketers, take on these tasks either internally at companies or externally at marketing firms.



Corporations traditionally focused on marketing through print, television, and radio. Although these options still exist, the internet led to a shift in the way companies reach consumers. That's where digital marketing came into play. This form of marketing involves the use of websites, social media, search engines, and apps—anything that incorporates marketing with customer feedback or a two-way interaction between the company and its customers.



New technologies and trends forced companies to change their marketing strategies. Email became a popular marketing tool in the early days of digital marketing. Then, the focus shifted to search engines like Netscape, which allowed businesses to tag and keyword items to get themselves noticed. The development of sites like Facebook made it possible for companies to track data and cater to consumer trends.



Smartphones and other digital devices now make it easier for companies to market themselves and their products and services to consumers. Studies show that people prefer using their phones to go online. In fact, according to a Pew Research Center study, over 75% of American adults typically make shopping purchases using their phones.






Digital marketing can be interactive and is often used to target specific segments of the customer base.


   Sources and Receivers  

Advertisers are commonly referred to as sources, while recipients of the targeted ads are the receivers. Sources frequently target highly specific, well-defined receivers, as McDonald's did with shift workers and travelers.



The company used digital ads because it knew these people used digital devices and made up a large segment of its late-night business. McDonald's encouraged them to download the Restaurant Finder app, targeting them with ads placed at automated teller machines (ATMs), gas stations, and websites that its customers frequented.


   Types of Digital Marketing Channels  

As noted above, marketing was traditionally done through print (newspapers and magazines) and broadcast ads (TV and radio). These channels still exist and are used today. Digital marketing channels have evolved and continue to do so. The following are eight of the most common digital avenues that companies can take to boost their marketing efforts. Keep in mind that some companies may use multiple channels in their efforts.


  Website Marketing  

A website is the centerpiece of all digital marketing activities. It is a very powerful channel on its own, but it’s also the medium needed to execute a variety of online marketing campaigns. A website should represent a brand, product, and service in a clear and memorable way. It should be fast, mobile-friendly, and easy to use.


  Pay-Per-Click Advertising  

Pay-per-click (PPC) advertising enables marketers to reach internet users on a number of digital platforms through paid ads. Marketers can set up PPC campaigns on Google, Bing, LinkedIn, X platform (formerly Twitter), Pinterest, and Facebook and show their ads to people searching on terms related to products or services.



These campaigns can segment users based on their demographic characteristics (such as age or gender), or even target their particular interests or location. The most popular platforms for PPC are Google Ads and Facebook Ads.


  Content Marketing  

The goal of content marketing is to reach potential customers through the use of content that interests them. Content is usually published on a website and then promoted through social media, email marketing, search engine optimization, or even pay-per-click campaigns. The tools of content marketing include blogs, ebooks, online courses, infographics, podcasts, and webinars.


  Email Marketing  

Email marketing is still one of the most effective digital marketing channels. Many people confuse email marketing with spam email messages, but that’s not what email marketing is about. This type of marketing allows companies to reach potential customers and anyone else interested in their brands and products.



Many digital marketers use all other digital marketing channels to add leads to their email lists. Then, using email marketing, they create customer acquisition funnels to turn those leads into customers.


  Social Media Marketing  

The primary goals of a social media marketing campaign are to build brand awareness and establish social trust. As you go deeper into social media marketing, you can use it to obtain leads and as a direct marketing or sales channel. Promoted posts and tweets are two examples of social media marketing.


  Affiliate Marketing  

Affiliate marketing is one of the oldest forms of marketing, and the internet has given it new life. With affiliate marketing, influencers promote other people’s products and get a commission every time a sale is made or a lead is introduced. Many well-known companies including Amazon have affiliate programs that pay out millions of dollars per month to websites that sell their products.


  Video Marketing  

YouTube is one of the most popular search engines in the world. A lot of internet users turn to YouTube before making a buying decision, to learn something, to read a review, or just to relax.



Marketers can use any of several video marketing platforms, including Facebook Videos, Instagram, and TikTok, to run a video marketing campaign. Companies find the most success with video by integrating it with SEO, content marketing, and broader social media marketing campaigns.


  SMS Messaging  

Companies and nonprofit organizations also use text messages (formally known as SMS, or short message service) to send information about their latest promotions or give opportunities to willing customers. Political candidates running for office also use SMS campaigns to spread positive information about their platforms. As technology has advanced, many text-to-give campaigns also allow customers to directly pay or give via a simple text message.






Internet marketing differs from digital marketing. Internet marketing is advertising that is solely on the internet, whereas digital marketing can take place through mobile devices, on a subway platform, in a video game, or via a smartphone app.


   Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) in Digital Marketing  

A key point to remember is that digital marketers use key performance indicators (KPIs) just like traditional marketers. KPIs are quantifiable ways that companies can measure long-term performance of marketing and compare their efforts to their competition. Areas of measurement include corporate strategies, financial goals and achievements, operational activities, and even marketing campaigns.



The following are some of the most common KPIs that marketers can use to help companies achieve their goals:



Blog Articles: Marketers can use this KPI to figure out how many times a company publishes blog posts each month.
Clickthrough Rates: Companies can use this KPI to figure out how many clicks take place for email distributions. This includes the number of people that open an email and click on a link to complete a sale.
Conversion Rate: This measure focuses on call-to-action promotional programs. These programs ask consumers to follow through with certain actions, such as buying a product or service before the end of a promotional period. Companies can determine the conversion rate by dividing successful engagements by the total number of requests made.
Traffic on Social Media: This tracks how many people interact with corporate social media profiles. It includes likes, follows, views, shares, and/or other measurable actions.
Website Traffic: Marketers can use this metric to track how many people visit a company's website. Corporate management can use this information to understand whether the site's design and structure contribute to sales.


   Digital Marketing Challenges  

Digital marketing poses special challenges for its purveyors. Digital channels proliferate rapidly, and digital marketers have to keep up with how these channels work and how they're used by receivers. Marketers need to know how to use these channels to effectively market their products or services.



It's becoming more difficult to capture receivers' attention because they're increasingly inundated with competing ads. Digital marketers also find it challenging to analyze the vast troves of data they capture and then exploit this information in new marketing efforts.



The challenge of capturing and using data effectively highlights that digital marketing requires an approach to marketing based on a deep understanding of consumer behavior. For example, it may require that a company use different techniques, such as website heatmaps, to learn more about the customer journey and new forms of consumer behavior.


   Implicit Bias in Digital Marketing  

Implicit bias has a way of creeping into digital marketing, even when marketers and companies do all they can to ensure that it doesn't. Implicit bias refers to attitudes and stereotypes that occur automatically without any conscious knowledge.



Algorithms are part of the foundation of digital marketing, which makes them very important when companies craft their marketing strategies. These algorithms are often created with the intention of being unbiased. However, the intention doesn't always match the result.



That's because algorithms are programmed by various individuals, including engineers, developers, data scientists, and marketers—all of whom come with their own implicit biases. This means they may program, input, and manipulate data in certain ways, without meaning to.



Something as simple as adding stock photos or videos to a campaign can come with implicit bias. For instance, companies may unintentionally use images and videos of heterosexual White individuals while excluding Black, Indigenous, and other people of color, along with those of different body types and abilities.




What Is a Digital Marketing Agency?
A digital marketing agency is a firm that deals exclusively in marketing to consumers through digital channels. This includes creating and launching campaigns for corporate clients through social media, pay-per-click advertising, videos, and websites, among others.




What Is SEO in Digital Marketing?
Search engine optimization (SEO) is a way that companies increase traffic to their websites, with the goal of pushing their sites and names to the top of any search results page. This can occur with search results obtained organically or editorially. When companies are able to successfully apply SEO to their digital marketing strategies, their names and websites become increasingly visible to more consumers.




What Is Internet Marketing?
Internet marketing is any marketing that takes place solely on the internet. This means it exclusively appears on websites. It is different than digital marketing, which includes internet marketing as well as marketing on social media sites, and mobile apps. These marketing campaigns can take place through smartphones, digital devices, and other platforms.




How Can I Become a Digital Marketer?
Digital marketers require strong writing skills along with data analytics and social media skills. A bachelor's degree is needed for most digital marketing positions. You'll find these positions in a business field such as marketing, or a related field such as communications. You may also want to take digital marketing courses or bootcamps. In addition, completing an internship while in school can be useful. A master’s degree in digital marketing may be useful but is not necessary to getting a job in the digital marketing field.




What Skills Are Needed in Digital Marketing?
Writing content is a required skill. So are communication skills, to effectively tell your product's story to your consumer base. Data analytics skills are important for understanding how well your marketing campaigns are performing and where they can be improved. Finally, social media and other online skills are a must.


   The Bottom Line  

Some of the world's biggest advertising campaigns were executed through traditional means. The Marlboro Man was very popular in print and on television, while people still recall Wendy's "Where's the beef?" tagline.



But changes in the way people consume media forced companies to shift their focus. Digital marketing is now just as big, if not bigger, than traditional advertising and marketing.



Implicit bias can occur in digital marketing, just as it can elsewhere. The main thing to keep in mind is that, as technology continues to change, you can also expect digital marketing to evolve.
What Is Digital Money?  

Digital money (or digital currency) refers to any means of payment that exists in a purely electronic form. Digital money is not physically tangible like a dollar bill or a coin. It is accounted for and transferred using online systems. One well-known form of digital money is the cryptocurrency Bitcoin.



Digital money can also represent fiat currencies, such as dollars or euros. Digital money is exchanged using technologies such as smartphones, credit cards, and online cryptocurrency exchanges. In some cases, it can be converted into physical cash through the use of an ATM.





Key Takeaways

Digital money is money in purely digital form. It is not a physically tangible asset like cash or other commodities like gold or oil.Digital money can streamline the current financial infrastructure, making it cheaper and faster to conduct monetary transactions. It can also ease monetary policy implementation by central banks.Examples of types of digital money are cryptocurrencies, central bank digital currencies, and stablecoins.Digital money is susceptible to hacks and can compromise user privacy. 


   Understanding Digital Money  

A variant of digital money is already present in society today in the form of cash held in online bank accounts. This cash can be sent to others or received from them. It can also be used for online transactions.



Digital money is similar in concept and use to its cash counterpart in that it can be a unit of account and a medium for daily transactions. But it is not cash. For example, the dollars in your online bank account are not digital money because they take on a physical form when you withdraw them from an ATM.



Digital money is different from cash because it improves upon the process for monetary transactions. For example, the technological rails of digital money can make currency transfers across borders easier and faster as compared to standard money. This form of money also streamlines the process for monetary policy implementation for central banks. The use of cryptography in some forms of digital money makes transactions involving them tamper-proof and censorship-resistant, meaning they cannot be controlled by governments or private agencies.



Given these advantages, digital money has become a priority for several governments around the world. The central bank of Sweden, a country that is on its way to becoming a cashless society, has released several exploratory papers since 2017 that explore the benefits and drawbacks of introducing digital money into its economy. Meanwhile, China has already conducted pilot tests involving the DC/EP, the digital equivalent of its national currency, and is planning to release it soon. The Bahamas sand dollar is a digital iteration of the country's national currency. It was released in October 2020.



According to a February 2021 survey conducted by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), around 111 countries from its 159 member countries are researching or planning to introduce digital money in the near future.


   What Problems Does Digital Money Solve?   

Several systems already perform transactions with digital versions of money. For example, credit card systems allow users to purchase goods and services on credit. Wire transfer systems enable movement of cash across borders.



Such transactions are expensive and time-consuming because they involve the use of disparate processing systems. The SWIFT system, a payments systems network consisting of various banks and financial institutions across the globe, is an example of such an outfit. There are charges for each transfer conducted through the SWIFT network. The member institutions of SWIFT also function in a patchwork of regulation, each specific to a different financial jurisdiction. Moreover, these systems are built on the promise of future payments, ensuring a time lag for each transaction. For example, reconciliation for credit cards occurs at a later date, and users can file chargebacks for transactions.



One of the aims of digital money is to do away with the time lag and operating costs for such transactions by using distributed ledger technology (DLT). In a DLT system, nodes or shared ledgers connect to form a common network to process transactions. This network can also extend to other jurisdictions and minimize the processing time for transactions. It provides transparency to authorities and stakeholders, improving the resiliency of a financial network by eliminating the need for a centralized database of records.



Digital money also solves the double-spending problem by using an algorithmic consensus system. The problem, stated quite simply, relates to ensuring that a "note" of digital money is not spent twice by the same person.



A centralized setup of currency production and distribution, such as the one with central banks that exists currently, uses a system of serial numbers to ensure that each note is unique. Some forms of digital money like central bank digital currencies (CBDCs) or digital money issued by private parties replicate the role of a central authority in ensuring solvency and integrity of transactions, albeit in a digital context.



Other types of digital money are decentralized. They eliminate the function of central authorities to oversee production and intermediaries needed to distribute the currency. Cryptography is used. Blind signatures hide the identity of transacting parties, and zero-knowledge proofs encrypt transaction details. Examples of this type of digital money are cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and Ethereum.


   Types of Digital Money   

Thanks to its technological underpinning, digital money can be adapted to suit multiple purposes and can take on various forms. The three adaptations of digital money that have emerged in recent times are as follows:


  Central Bank Digital Currencies (CBDCs)  

Central bank digital currencies (CBDCs) are currencies issued by the central bank of a country. They are separate from fiat currencies, which are also backed by the authority and credit of a central bank, and are another obligation of the institution. CBDCs ease monetary policy implementation by removing intermediaries from the policy by establishing a direct connection between the government and the average citizen. Banks and financial institutions responsible for distributing national currency are no longer required in the process.



Depending on their use and type of implementation in the economy, there can be two types of CBDCs. Retail CBDCs are designed to be used for daily transactions, much like fiat currencies. In a more limited implementation of the concept, Wholesale CBDCs are used for transactions conducted between banks and financial institutions.


  Cryptocurrencies  

Cryptocurrencies are digital currencies designed using cryptography. The crypto wrapper around a digital currency provides enhanced security and makes transactions tamper-resistant. The most popular cryptocurrencies are Bitcoin and Ethereum. Since 2017, the popularity of cryptocurrencies as an investment class has skyrocketed their value and the overall market capitalization of crypto markets. By July 2021, the market cap of cryptocurrencies had surpassed $2 trillion.


  Stablecoins  

Stablecoins are a variation of cryptocurrencies and were developed to counter the price volatility of regular cryptocurrencies. Stablecoins can be likened to a form of private money whose price is tied to that of a fiat currency or a basket of goods to ensure that they remain stable. They can be a proxy for fiat currencies, except they are not backed by governmental authority. The market for stablecoins has exploded in recent times. As of February 2021, 200 stablecoins had been released or were in development.


   Advantages of Digital Money   

The current financial infrastructure is a complex system of many entities. Conducting a transaction between financial institutions takes time and money because they work in different technological systems and regulation regimes. The main advantage of digital money is that it speeds up transaction speed and cuts back on costs.



Other advantages of digital money are as follows:



Digital money eliminates the need for physical storage and safekeeping that is a characteristic of cash-intensive systems. You do not need to invest in a wallet or bank vaults to ensure that your money is not stolen.
Digital money simplifies accounting and record-keeping for transactions through technology. Therefore, manual accounting and separate entity-specific ledgers are not necessary to maintain records of transactions.
While it has already shortened the amount of time and the cost required to transfer money across borders, digital money has the potential to further revolutionize the remittance industry by eliminating intermediaries and further reducing the costs associated with cross-border transfers.
Digital money removes intermediaries in the implementation of monetary policy and makes it possible to include groups of people who were previously excluded from the economy. For example, those who are unbanked can still participate in an economy by using digital money present in their online wallet or mobile phones.
In the case of cryptocurrencies, digital money transactions can become censorship-resistant, meaning they can be impervious to tracking by government or other authorities.


   Disadvantages of Digital Money   

The disadvantages of digital money are as follows: 



Digital money is susceptible to hacking. Even as it removes the need for physical safekeeping, digital money's origins in technology ensure that this form of money becomes a target for hackers, who can steal from digital wallets. A seamless financial infrastructure consisting of digitally connected entities can be brought down by hackers. The 2018 SWIFT hacks, which affected multiple countries, are an example. Hacks of digital money on a large scale have the potential to bring a country's financial infrastructure to heel and become a national security threat.
Digital money use can compromise user privacy. Cash is anonymous, and it is nearly impossible to track and trace its users. On the other hand, digital money can be traced. While the use of internet cookies enables targeted advertising, the implications for digital money tracking are more far-reaching. For example, organizations or governments could blacklist or freeze accounts without the permission of users. They could also instigate double-accounting in bank accounts, inflating expenses and reducing the overall total.
Digital money has its own set of costs. For example, digital wallets are required to store digital money. Cryptocurrencies also require custody solutions that act as a failsafe against hackers. Systems that use blockchains also have to pay transaction fees, or the costs associated with processing the transaction, to miners.
Digital money presents several challenges on the governance and policy framework front. This form of money is uncharted territory for policymakers, and problems have already begun emerging in its ecosystem. For example, the integrity of stablecoins is already under a cloud after Tether, the most widely used stablecoin in cryptocurrency markets, was found to have co-mingled client and corporate funds and used funds from its reserve backup – to ensure a 1:1 peg to the U.S. dollar – to cover up its debt obligations.


   Digital Currency FAQs   
  What is digital money?   

Digital money (or digital currency) refers to any means of payment that exists purely in electronic form. Digital money does not have a physical and tangible form, such as a dollar bill or a coin, and is accounted for and transferred using online systems. 


  What are the different types of digital money?   

Its technological underpinnings mean that digital money can be adapted to suit various purposes. Apart from being a digital representation of fiat currency, there are three other forms of digital money: cryptocurrencies, central bank digital currencies, and stablecoins.


  What are some advantages of digital money?   

Digital money eases and expedites money transfer and remittance systems. It also simplifies the implementation of monetary policy by central banks by removing intermediaries like banks from the process. Cryptocurrencies are also censorship-resistant, meaning that the flow and use of digital money on their blockchains cannot be tracked.


  What are some disadvantages of digital money?   

Digital money systems are susceptible to hacks. Through skillful targeting of such systems, hackers can bring down important financial infrastructure and cripple the economic foundations of a country. Centralized digital money systems, such as those for CBDCs, can enable the tracking and tracing of user information and compromise their privacy.


   The Bottom Line  

Digital money is a major innovation in financial technology. It overcomes the problems of cash and makes payment systems faster and cheaper. But it has the attendant problems of technology, as digital money can be hacked and can erode privacy. While it is still early days for digital money, it will play an important part in the future of finance.
What Is a Binary Option?  

A binary option is a financial product where the parties involved in the transaction are assigned one of two outcomes based on whether the option expires in the money. Binary options depend on the outcome of a "yes or no" proposition, hence the name "binary." Traders receive a payout if the binary option expires in the money and incur a loss if it expires out of the money.





Key Takeaways

Binary options depend on the outcome of a "yes or no" proposition.Traders receive a payout if the binary option expires in the money and incur a loss if it expires out of the money.Binary options set a fixed payout and loss amount.Binary options don't allow traders to take a position in the underlying security.Most binary options trading occurs outside the United States.


   How a Binary Option Works  

Binary options have an expiry date and/or time. At the time of expiry, the price of the underlying asset must be on the correct side of the strike price (based on the trade taken) for the trader to make a profit.



A binary option automatically exercises, meaning the gain or loss on the trade is automatically credited or debited to the trader's account when the option expires. That means the buyer of a binary option will either receive a payout or lose their entire investment in the trade—there is nothing in between. Conversely, the seller of the option will either retain the buyer's premium, or be required to make the full payout.



A binary option may be as simple as whether the share price of ABC will be above $25 on April 22, 2021, at 10:45 a.m. The trader makes a decision, either yes (it will be higher) or no (it will be lower). 



Let's say the trader thinks the price will be trading above $25 on that date and time and is willing to stake $100 on the trade. If ABC shares trade above $25 at that date and time, the trader receives a payout per the terms agreed. For example, if the payout was 70%, the binary broker credits the trader's account with $70.



If the price trades below $25 at that date and time, the trader was wrong and loses their $100 investment in the trade.


   Binary Options vs. Vanilla Options  

A vanilla American option gives the holder the right to buy or sell an underlying asset at a specified price on or before the expiration date of the option. A European option is the same, except traders can only exercise that right on the expiration date. Vanilla options, or just options, provide the buyer with potential ownership of the underlying asset. When buying these options, traders have fixed risk, but profits vary depending on how far the price of the underlying asset moves.



Binary options differ in that they don't provide the possibility of taking a position in the underlying asset. Binary options typically specify a fixed maximum payout, while the maximum risk is limited to the amount invested in the option. Movement in the underlying asset doesn't impact the payout received or loss incurred.



The profit or loss depends on whether the price of the underlying is on the correct side of the strike price. Some binary options can be closed before expiration, although this typically reduces the payout received (if the option is in the money). 



Binary options occasionally trade on platforms regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other agencies, but most binary options trading occurs outside the United States and may not be regulated. Unregulated binary options brokers don't have to meet a particular standard. Therefore, investors should be wary of the potential for fraud. Conversely, vanilla options trade on regulated U.S. exchanges and are subject to U.S. options market regulations.


   Example of a Binary Option  

Nadex is a regulated binary options exchange in the U.S. Nadex binary options are based on a "yes or no" proposition and allow traders to exit before expiry. The binary option's entry price indicates the potential profit or loss, with all options expiring worth $100 or $0.



Let's assume stock Colgate-Palmolive is currently trading at $64.75. A binary option has a strike price of $65 and expires tomorrow at 12 p.m. The trader can buy the option for $40. If the price of the stock finishes above $65, the option expires in the money and is worth $100. The trader makes $60 ($100 – $40).



If the option expires and the price of the Colgate is below $65 (out of the money), the trader loses the $40 they put into the option. The potential profit and loss, combined, always equals $100 with a Nadex binary option.



If the trader wanted to make a more significant investment, they could change the number of options traded. For example, selecting three contracts, in this case, would up the risk to $120, and increase the profit potential to $180.



Non-Nadex binary options are similar, except they typically aren't regulated in the U.S., often can't be exited before expiry, may not trade in $100 increments, and usually have fixed percentage payout for wins.
What Is a Digital Wallet?  

A digital wallet (or electronic wallet) is a financial transaction application that runs on any connected device. It securely stores your payment information and passwords in the cloud. Digital wallets may be accessible from a computer; mobile wallets, which are a subset, are primarily used on mobile devices.



Digital wallets allow you to pay when you're shopping using your device so that you don't need to carry your cards around. You enter and store your credit card, debit card, or bank account information and can then use your device to pay for purchases.



Digital wallets can also store:



Gift cardsMembership cardsLoyalty cardsCouponsEvent ticketsPlane and transit ticketsHotel reservationsDriver's licenseIdentification cardsCar keys



Learn more about digital wallets, how they work, and how you can use them.





Key Takeaways

Digital wallets are financial applications that allow you to store funds, make transactions, and track payment histories on devices like phones and tablets.You can store all of your financial information in a digital wallet; some even let you store identification cards and driver's licenses.Digital wallets may be included in a bank's mobile app or payment apps like PayPal or Alipay.Digital wallets allow people in financially underserved parts of the world to access financial services they may not have been able to before.


   How a Digital Wallet Works  

Digital wallets are applications designed to take advantage of the abilities of mobile devices to improve access to financial products and services. Digital wallets essentially eliminate the need to carry a physical wallet by storing all of a consumer's payment information securely and compactly.



Digital wallets use a mobile device's wireless capabilities like Bluetooth, WiFi, and magnetic signals to transmit payment data securely from your device to a point of sale designed to read the data and connect via these signals.



Currently, the technologies used by mobile devices and digital wallets are:



QR codes: Quick response codes are matrix bar codes that store information. You use your device's camera and the wallet's scanning system to initiate payment.Near field communication (NFC): NFC is a technology that allows two smart devices to connect and transfer information using electromagnetic signals. It requires two devices to be close to each other to connect.Magnetic secure transmission (MST): The same technology used by magnetic card readers that read your card when you swipe it through a slot on a point of sale. Your phone generates this encrypted field that the point of sale can read. However, at least one digital wallet and mobile phone provider, Samsung, has phased out an MST feature for Samsung Pay on its Android mobile phones.



The card information you've stored in your wallet and choose to use for a transaction is transmitted from your device to the point-of-sale terminal, which is connected to payment processors. Then, through the processors, gateways, acquirers, or any other third parties involved in credit and debit card transactions, the payment is routed through the credit card networks and banks to make a payment.






When you hold your phone over a point of sale to make a purchase, you're using your digital wallet to conduct the transaction.



Because cryptocurrency has become a part of the financial system, companies like Bitpay invented cards that let you pay with cryptocurrency. Digital wallets like Apple Pay and Google Pay allow you to add a Bitpay debit card. The Bitpay card converts cryptocurrency to dollars at the current market value, which your wallet then uses to pay for your purchase.


   Types of Digital Wallets  

There are several digital wallets available. Here are some of the most well-known:



Cash AppApple PayGoogle WalletSamsung PayPayPalVenmoAliPayWalmart PayDwollaVodafone M-PESA



Most wallets attempt to distinguish themselves from their competitors with different methods. For example, Google's digital wallet service allows you to add funds to the wallet on your phone or device. Then you can spend this cash in-store and online at businesses that accept Google payments.



Apple, on the other hand, entered into a strategic partnership with Goldman Sachs to issue Apple credit cards and expand its Apple Pay services.


  Age Requirements for Using a Digital Wallet  

Most makers of digital wallets place age restrictions on young users. For example, if you're not yet 18, you can't use Apple Pay to reimburse friends or family, although you can buy items with it yourself.



Cash App is a bit more user-friendly for teens. The wallet's payment system is available for kids as young as 13, and it's one of the few mobile options that allows a young person to pay someone else or receive funds—up to $1,000 every 30 days, in peer-to-peer transactions.


   Pros and Cons of Digital Wallets  



Pros

Limits exposure of financial and personal information
Ends carrying a physical wallet and cards
Can improve access to financial services in underserved areas



Cons

Payment method may not be accepted everywhere
May not work if Bluetooth or WiFi isn't available or your device isn't charged
Can be vulnerable to identity theft or fraud if your mobile device is stolen while unprotected, or hacked





  Pros Explained  

Limits exposure for financial and personal information: Having a digital wallet adds security for your credit cards and identification.Ends carrying a physical wallet and cards: Possessing forms of payment and ID in your mobile device means you can carry less, avoiding the chance of losing those items.Can improve financial services access: Availability of digital wallets gives people in underserved areas more options for payment and commerce.


  Cons Explained  

May not be accepted everywhere: Smaller shops or less-developed areas may not be set up to accept payment via a digital wallet.May not work if Bluetooth or WiFi aren't available: If an internet setup or electronic point-of-sale network aren't functioning, it may not be possible to pay using a digital wallet.Vulnerable to identify theft or fraud: If your mobile device is stolen and isn't protected by a password or biometric data, or if your digital wallet is hacked, you could suffer criminal use of the information.






Digital wallets allow businesses and consumers worldwide to accept payments, receive funds, or send and receive remittances from friends and family in other nations.



Digital wallets don't require a bank account at a bank with a physical branch. Instead, you can place your funds in an online-only bank—which gives unbanked and underbanked communities access to financial services, enabling broader financial inclusion.



Security might become an issue if you use a digital wallet from a provider that hasn't been vetted or doesn't have an established reputation. If your phone isn't password-protected, you risk giving someone else access to your finances if you lose your phone. Additionally, there might be local businesses you prefer to shop at that don't yet have a point of sale that accepts this technology.




What Is a Digital Wallet Example?
Google Pay and Apple Pay are examples of more well-known digital wallets. Both services allow you to access your financial products through your devices and to make purchases.




Is PayPal a Digital Wallet?
PayPal is a peer-to-peer payment and money exchange platform, but it has a digital wallet included in its app.




Do I Need a Digital Wallet?
You don't necessarily need a digital wallet. However, they offer a convenient way to pay for your purchases because you don't have to carry credit and debit cards around; that information is instead stored in the cloud. This also increases card security—you can't lose your cards if you don't carry them.


   The Bottom Line  

A digital wallet is a type of financial transaction app that runs on any connected device. It securely stores your payment information and passwords. Mobile wallets are a form of digital wallet most often used on mobile devices. One of the biggest advantages of digital wallets is that they let you pay for things without credit or debit cards, once you enter and store your card and banking information in the mobile payment platform.
What Is Diluted EPS?  

Diluted EPS is a measurement used to gauge the quality of a company's earnings per share (EPS) if all convertible securities were exercised. The diluted EPS is commonly lower than the simple or basic EPS.



Convertible securities are outstanding convertible preferred shares, convertible debentures, stock options, and warrants.





Key Takeaways

Diluted earnings per share (EPS) is a measurement of a company’s earnings per share if all convertible securities were converted. Dilutive securities are securities that can be converted to common stock. Dilution devalues a shareholder's existing equity stake and reduces a firm's earnings per share.Diluted EPS is considered a conservative metric because it indicates a worst-case scenario in terms of EPS.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Diluted EPS  

Earnings per share, or EPS, is a financial metric used to measure a company's profitability. It compares the company's net earnings against its current number of shares. Calculating diluted EPS includes shares that a company may be obligated to issue in the future.



Convertible preferred stock, stock options, and convertible bonds are common types of dilutive securities. All of these securities, if exercised, would increase the number of shares outstanding and decrease EPS.



Convertible preferred stock is a preferred share that can be converted to a common share at any time. Stock options grant the buyer the right to purchase common stock at a set price at a set time.



Convertible bonds are similar to convertible preferred stock as they are converted to common shares at the prices and times specified in their contracts.






Shareholders typically resist dilution as it devalues their existing equity stake and reduces a firm's earnings per share.


   Formula and Calculation of Diluted EPS  

A basic EPS takes the company's net income minus any preferred dividends and divides it by the number of outstanding shares.













To calculate diluted EPS, add the number of dilutive shares, or the number of shares that would exist if all of a company's existing potential share obligations were exercised.













For both calculations, it is best to use a weighted average of shares outstanding for the period.


   Example of Diluted EPS  

Company ABC has the following financial data:












Net Income
Preferred Dividends
Outstanding Shares
Employee Stock Options
Convertible Bonds


$11 Million
$1 Million
$20 Million
5 Million Shares
15 Million Shares






EPS = ($11 Million - $1 Million) / 20 Million Shares Outstanding



EPS = $.50 Per Share



Diluted EPS = ($11 Million - $1 Million) / (20 Million Shares Outstanding + 20 Million Dilutive Shares)



Diluted EPS = $.25 Per Share



Diluted EPS can provide a more accurate picture of a company's financial condition than ordinary EPS. Since many companies have obligations that could result in additional shares being issued, it is best to express financial metrics such as EPS using a diluted share count. 


   Diluted EPS vs. EPS  

Earnings per share, the value of earnings per share of outstanding common stock, is an important metric used to assess a company's financial health.



EPS is reported on a company's income statement, and only public companies are required to include it in their earnings reports. Public companies report both primary and diluted EPS, but the focus is often on the conservative diluted EPS measurement.



Dilutive EPS indicates a worst-case scenario for earnings per share and reflects the consequence of all dilutive shares such as options, warrants, and convertible preferred shares, converted simultaneously.



A large difference between a company's basic EPS and diluted EPS can indicate the potential for dilution of the company's shares and is a concern for analysts and investors.



If Company A has $9 billion in outstanding shares and there is a $0.10 difference between its basic EPS and diluted EPS. it equates to $900 million in value unavailable to investors.




What Does a Diluted EPS Tell Shareholders?
Diluted EPS considers what would happen if dilutive securities were exercised. Dilutive securities are securities that are not common stock but can be converted to common stock if the holder exercises that option. If converted, dilutive securities effectively increase the weighted number of shares outstanding, which decreases EPS, thereby devaluing a shareholder's existing equity stake.




Is a High Diluted EPS Better Than a Low Diluted EPS?
Higher diluted EPS figures should obtain higher valuations from the market with investors more willing to pay a premium for each share of equity.




What Types of Companies Report Diluted EPS?
Only publicly traded companies are required to report both EPS and diluted EPS. Private companies are not required to report these figures.


   The Bottom Line  

Diluted EPS is a performance metric used to assess a company's earnings per share if all convertible securities were exercised. Dilution devalues a shareholder's existing equity stake and reduces a firm's earnings per share. Only publicly traded companies are required to report both EPS and diluted EPS on their earnings report.
What Is Dilution?  

Dilution occurs when a company issues new shares that result in a decrease in existing stockholders' ownership percentage of that company. Stock dilution can also occur when holders of stock options, such as company employees, or holders of other optionable securities exercise their options. When the number of shares outstanding increases, each existing stockholder owns a smaller, or diluted, percentage of the company, making each share less valuable.



A share of stock represents equity ownership in that company. When a firm's board of directors decides to take their company public, usually through an initial public offering (IPO), they authorize the number of shares that will be initially offered. This amount of outstanding stock is commonly referred to as the "float." If that company later issues additional stock (often called secondary offerings) they have increased the float and therefore diluted their stock: the shareholders who bought the original IPO now have a smaller ownership stake in the company than they did prior to the new shares being issued.





Key Takeaways

Dilution is the reduction in shareholders' equity positions due to the issuance or creation of new shares.Dilution also reduces a company's earnings per share (EPS), which can have a negative impact on share prices.Dilution can occur when a firm raises additional equity capital, though existing shareholders are usually disadvantaged.


   Understanding Dilution  

Dilution is simply a case of cutting the equity "cake" into more pieces. There will be more pieces but each will be smaller. So, you will still get your piece of the cake only that it will be a smaller proportion of the total than you had been expecting, which is often not desired.



While it primarily affects equity ownership positions, dilution also reduces the company's earnings per share (EPS, or net income divided by the float), which often depresses stock prices in the market. For this reason, many public companies publish estimates of both non-diluted and diluted EPS, which is essentially a "what-if-scenario" for investors in the case new shares are issued. Diluted EPS assumes that potentially dilutive securities have already been converted to outstanding shares.



Share dilution may happen any time a company raises additional equity capital, as newly created shares are issued to new investors. The potential upside of raising capital in this way is that the funds the company receives from selling additional shares can improve the company's profitability and growth prospects, and by extension the value of its stock.



Understandably, share dilution is not often viewed favorably by existing shareholders, and companies sometimes initiate share repurchase programs to help curb the effects of dilution. Note that stock splits do not create dilution. In situations where a company splits its stock, current investors receive additional shares while the price of the shares is adjusted accordingly, keeping their percentage ownership in the company static.






   General Example of Dilution  

Suppose a company has issued 100 shares to 100 individual shareholders. Each shareholder owns 1% of the company. If the company then has a secondary offering and issues 100 new shares to 100 more shareholders, each shareholder only owns 0.5% of the company. The smaller ownership percentage also diminishes each investor's voting power.


   Real-World Example of Dilution  

Often times a public company disseminates its intention to issue new shares, thereby diluting its current pool of equity long before it actually does. This allows investors, both new and old, to plan accordingly. For example, MGT Capital filed a proxy statement on July 8, 2016, that outlined a stock option plan for the newly appointed CEO, John McAfee. Additionally, the statement disseminated the structure of recent company acquisitions, purchased with a combination of cash and stock.



Both the executive stock option plan as well as the acquisitions are expected to dilute the current pool of outstanding shares. Further, the proxy statement had a proposal for the issuance of newly authorized shares, which suggests the company expects more dilution in the near-term.


   Dilution Protection  

Shareholders typically resist dilution as it devalues their existing equity. Dilution protection refers to contractual provisions that limit or outright prevent an investor's stake in a company from being reduced in later funding rounds. The dilution protection feature kicks in if the actions of the company will decrease the investor's percentage claim on assets of the company.



For example, if an investor's stake is 20%, and the company is going to hold an additional funding round, the company must offer discounted shares to the investor to at least partially make up for the dilution of the overall ownership stake. Dilution protection provisions are generally found in venture capital funding agreements. Dilution protection is sometimes referred to as "anti-dilution protection."



Similarly, an anti-dilution provision is a provision in an option or convertible security, and it is also known as an "anti-dilution clause." It protects an investor from equity dilution resulting from later issues of stock at a lower price than the investor originally paid. These are common with convertible preferred stock, which is a favored form of venture capital investment.
What Is a Dim Sum Bond?  

"Dim sum bond' is a slang term for bonds denominated in Chinese renminbi and issued in Hong Kong. Dim sum bonds are attractive to foreign investors who desire exposure to renminbi-denominated assets, but are restricted by China's capital controls from investing in domestic Chinese debt.



The term is derived from dim sum, a popular style of cuisine in Hong Kong which involves serving a variety of small delicacies.





Key Takeaways

A dim sum bond refers to an RMB-denominated bond issued in Hong Kong, which is a relatively autonomous region of China.Dim sum bonds are marketed to foreigners who wish to circumvent Chinese capital controls, but still have direct exposure to renminbi-denominated assets.Multinational corporations may choose to issue these bonds to access regional financing from foreign creditors without restrictions or strict oversight from Chinese authorities.


   Dim Sum Bonds Explained  

International investors who are looking to participate in the Chinese renminbi-denominated (RMB) market may look to the dim sum bond market. Dim sum bonds are issued in Hong Kong. SAR by Chinese and foreign companies that prefer to avoid the stringent securities’ laws set by regulators in the People’s Republic of China (PRC). In other words, dim sum bonds are attractive to investors interested in holding debt issued in yuan, but are unable to do so due to Chinese domestic debt regulations.



Multinational companies, even those without a presence in China, can issue dim sum bonds to professional investors without seeking approval from either PRC or Hong Kong authorities. After issuing such bonds, multinational issuers may use their proceeds freely in Hong Kong without PRC regulatory approval. The proceeds may also be used to settle cross-border trades.



Since PRC approval is not required, the dim sum bond market is appealing to investors seeking to diversify their holdings. In addition, investors who bet on RMB appreciation can also use the dim sum bond market. This bond market also allows China to regulate the amount of offshore yuan that flow back into the mainland.


   Dim Sum Bonds vs. Panda Bonds  

The dim sum bond is frequently compared to panda bonds. Panda bonds instead are onshore renminbi-denominated debt issued in China by overseas companies. The panda bond market is used as a capital-raising platform for foreign firms targeting domestic investors and hence, domestic investors are the main purchasers of these bonds. Conversely, the offshore dim sum bond market is dominated by international investors.


   The Dim Sum Bond Index  

The Dim Sum Bond Index is a market capitalization weighted index that measures the performance of RMB-denominated dim sum bonds issued and settled outside Mainland China. Its top 10 issuers by market weight were PRC, Bank of China Ltd., Lenovo Group Ltd., China Development Bank Corp., Asian Development Bank, Beijing Enterprises Group, Beijing Enterprises Water Group, Export-Import Bank of China, China Construction Bank Corp., and International Finance Corp. This index is managed by Citigroup and rebalanced once a month.
What Is a Direct Cost?  

A direct cost is a price that can be directly tied to the production of specific goods or services. A direct cost can be traced to the cost object, which can be a service, product, or department. Direct and indirect costs are the two major types of expenses or costs that companies can incur. Direct costs are often variable costs, meaning they fluctuate with production levels such as inventory. However, some costs, such as indirect costs are more difficult to assign to a specific product. Examples of indirect costs include depreciation and administrative expenses.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Direct Costs  

Although direct costs are typically variable costs, they can also include fixed costs. Rent for a factory, for example, could be tied directly to the production facility. Typically, rent would be considered overhead. However, companies can sometimes tie fixed costs to the units produced in a particular facility.


  Direct Costs Examples  

Any cost that's involved in producing a good, even if it's only a portion of the cost that's allocated to the production facility, are included as direct costs. Some examples of direct costs are listed below:



Direct laborDirect materialsManufacturing suppliesWages for the production staffFuel or power consumption



Because direct costs can be specifically traced to a product, direct costs do not need to be allocated to a product, department, or other cost objects. Direct costs usually benefit only one cost object. Items that are not direct costs are pooled and allocated based on cost drivers.






Direct and indirect costs are the major costs involved in the production of a good or service. While direct costs are easily traced to a product, indirect costs are not.





Key Takeaways

A direct cost is a price that can be directly tied to the production of specific goods or services. A direct cost can be traced to the cost object, which can be a service, product, or department. Direct costs examples include direct labor and direct materials. Although direct costs are typically variable costs, they can also be fixed costs. Rent for a factory, for example, could be tied directly to a production facility. 


   Direct vs. Indirect Costs  

Direct costs are fairly straightforward in determining their cost object. For example, Ford Motor Company (F) manufactures automobiles and trucks. The steel and bolts needed for the production of a car or truck would be classified as direct costs. However, an indirect cost would be the electricity for the manufacturing plant. Although the electricity expense can be tied to the facility, it can't be directly tied to a specific unit and is, therefore, classified as indirect.


   Fixed vs. Variable  

Direct costs do not need to be fixed in nature, as their unit cost may change over time or depending on the quantity being utilized. An example is the salary of a supervisor that worked on a single project. This cost may be directly attributed to the project and relates to a fixed dollar amount. Materials that were used to build the product, such as wood or gasoline, might be directly traced but do not contain a fixed dollar amount. This is because the quantity of the supervisor's salary is known, while the unit production levels are variable based upon sales.


   Inventory Valuation Measurement  

Using direct costs requires strict management of inventory valuation when inventory is purchased at different dollar amounts. For example, the cost of an essential component of an item being manufactured may change over time. As the item is being manufactured, the component piece's price must be directly traced to the item.



For example, in the construction of a building, a company may have purchased a window for $500 and another window for $600. If only one window is to be installed on the building and the other is to remain in inventory, consistent application of accounting valuation must occur.



Companies typically trace these costs using two methods: first-in, first-out (FIFO) or last-in, first-out (LIFO). FIFO involves the assigning of costs, such as the purchase of inventory, based on what items arrived first. As inventory is used up in the production of goods, the first ones or the oldest inventory items are used first when measuring the cost of the item. Conversely, LIFO assigns the value of a cost item based on the last item purchased or added to inventory.
What Is Direct Deposit?  

The term direct deposit refers to the deposit of funds electronically into a bank account rather than through a physical, paper check. Direct deposit requires the use of an electronic network that allows deposits to take place between banks. This network is called the automated clearing house (ACH).



Because the funds are transferred electronically, recipients' accounts are credited automatically, so there is no need to wait for the money to clear. Common uses for direct deposit include paychecks, tax refunds, and other benefits.





Key Takeaways

Direct deposit is the deposit of funds electronically into a bank account rather than through a physical, paper check.It requires the use of an electronic network that allows deposits to take place between banks called the automated clearing house.Payees must provide the payer with their banking information or a void check in order to receive direct deposit payments. Salaries, tax refunds, investment redemptions, and government benefits are commonly paid through direct deposit. 


   How Direct Deposit Works  

Direct deposit is a safe and convenient way to receive payment. Funds are deposited into a recipient's account directly through an electronic network. In order for the funds to be transferred from the payer, the recipient must provide the name of their bank, their account number, and the bank's routing number to the person or business making the deposit. Alternatively, they may provide a voided check which has the same information printed on it.



It can take a few days for direct deposit to be set up. Once the depositor has the information, they enter it into their banking system. Funds are transferred electronically and are deposited into the recipient's account at midnight on the payment date. Since the funds clear automatically through the ACH, they are available immediately, so there's no need for the bank to put a hold on them.



This method is commonly used to transfer an employee's salary, tax refunds, investment redemptions, payments from retirement accounts, and government benefits like Social Security. Bill payments are also made using direct deposits from debtors to creditors. For instance, taxpayers have the option to receive their refunds in the form of a personal check or through a direct deposit.



Most refunds are issued within a few weeks of the date the taxpayer initially filed their annual income tax. Direct deposit allows the government to make the refund immediately available to the citizen. The same applies to government benefits like Social Security.



While most direct deposits are done using bank accounts and automated clearing houses, these payments can also be done using online banking and by transfers through smartphones. If, for instance, someone wants to send money directly to a family member, all they need is the person's email or mobile phone number. The recipient gives the transfer company their banking information. Once the money is sent, it deposits the money into the payee's account. As with other direct deposit cases, the money is available for immediate use.


   How Long Does Direct Deposit Take?  

It normally takes 1-3 days for direct deposits to clear. The actual transfer of funds is almost instantaneous, but it can take a few days for your bank to verify the funds and make them available to you. Weekends and public holidays can slow this process down, as can a range of other factors.



In some cases, employers will factor this time frame into their payroll system, so you'll receive your deposit on the day you are meant to get paid, rather than three days later. You can typically withdraw the money the same day it hits your account, but in some cases, you may not be able to access it until the following business day.






Keep track of what direct deposits you have hitting certain accounts. Should you need to close that bank account, it would help to have a list of transactions that are directly deposited.


   Uses of Direct Deposit  

Direct deposit can be used for various types of payments and transactions. Examples of uses of direct deposit include but aren't limited to:



Payroll: Direct deposit is a typical method used by employers to transfer employees' wages directly into their personal bank accounts as part of the payroll process. 
Government Benefits: The majority of government benefit programs, including Social Security, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), benefits offered by the Veterans Affairs, and unemployment benefits, provide recipients with the option to receive their payments by direct deposit.
Tax Refunds: Taxpayers have the option of selecting direct deposit as the method to get their tax returns from the government in order to obtain their tax refunds.
Paying Vendors: Businesses have the option of using direct deposit to pay their vendors, suppliers, or contractors. It provides a method that is both simplified and effective for managing accounts payable and settling invoices.
Dividends: Companies can choose to pay dividends to their shareholders via direct deposit.
Rental Income: Landlords have the option of setting up direct deposit with their tenants, which enables them to receive rent payments on a monthly basis directly into the bank accounts that they have selected.
Commissions: Sales representatives, agents, or freelancers who earn commissions as part of their remuneration can choose to have their commission payments made via direct deposit. 
Child Support: It is possible to get payments for child support by direct deposit, which is a technique that is both constant and reliable for receiving financial support.


   Special Considerations for Direct Deposit  

Direct deposit is a popular and convenient way for people to send and receive payment. For payers, it cuts down any expenses related to check-writing, postage, and administration. For payees or recipients, it eliminates the risk of losing a physical check along with the need to visit a bank in person to make a deposit. As mentioned above, direct deposit recipients are not subject to a check clearing wait period—salaries paid via check can often take a week or more to clear within their account.



Not everyone has a bank account. If the payer is required to provide a form of electronic payment like direct deposit, they may be able to provide funds in another way such as a prepaid debit card. This often occurs in cases where the government sends cards to benefit recipients who don't bank with traditional financial institutions.






Payers who are required to make electronic payments may provide recipients with prepaid debit cards.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Direct Deposit  
  Pros of Direct Deposit  

Direct deposit offers numerous benefits, including convenience, security, and fast access to funds. Direct deposit may cost less than other payment methods that rely on more manual, repetitive, time-intensive processing methods. Direct deposit may also be seen as more environmentally friendly as it does not rely heavily on paper or one-time items.



Direct deposit eliminates the need for physical checks and allows for automatic credited payments to the recipient's account, saving time and effort in terms of having money hit one's account. Direct deposit also reduces the risk of lost or stolen checks and the need to carry large amounts of cash.



Direct deposit also allows individuals to allocate funds to different accounts based on their preferences and financial goals. For example, someone may choose to have their paycheck direct deposited into three of their bank accounts: one for bills, one for their emergency fund, and one for long-term savings.


  Cons of Direct Deposit  

Direct deposit and other forms of electronic banking come with greater efficiency, along with a greater risk of online security hacks. The rise of certain cybersecurity measures to help protect forms of banking, such as direct deposits, has been critical. Types of cybersecurity attacks on sensitive financial information include:



Backdoor attacks in which thieves exploit alternate methods of accessing a database that doesn't require traditional authenticationDenial-of-service attacks, which prevent a rightful user from accessing a system often by entering a wrong password enough times that the account is lockedDirect-access attacks, including bugs and viruses, gain access to a system and copy its information



Measures to increase security can include using a password protector or choosing more complicated passwords with a combination of letters, numbers, capitals, and special signs, to encrypt personal financial data.


   Direct Deposits and Sustainability  

One of the primary important benefits of direct deposits is sustainability. Direct deposits offer a more ecological approach to financial transactions by reducing paper usage, carbon footprint, and energy consumption. This reduces the reliance on fossil fuels necessary to power paper recycling plants.



Direct deposits do not necessitate mailing or physically distributing payments. Therefore, it is more sustainable as it reduces waste such as envelopes and deposit slips. They also reduce water consumption by minimizing paper usage.



Proponents of direct deposits can argue that this method of payment also reduces emissions from transportation. In theory, direct deposits eliminate the need for physical checks to be transported via mail or courier services. Though checks may be able to be deposited electronically, direct deposits require no trip to the bank for the funds to hit an individual's account.




How Do I Set Up Direct Deposit?
If your employer offers direct deposit, you should ask them how to set it up. There are generally a number of steps involved:Get a direct deposit form from your employer.Fill in account information.Confirm the deposit amount.Attach a voided check or deposit slip if required.Submit the form.




How Long Does Direct Deposit Take?
It normally takes one to three days for a direct deposit to process. Sometimes the payment will show up right away with a “pending” designation until it's finalized.




Can I Recieve a Direct Deposit Without a Bank Account?
Yes. The easiest way to get a direct deposit without a bank account is through a prepaid card. You can buy a prepaid card even if you're not an account holder at any bank. You buy the card, load some money on it, and use it. Most of these cards include the possibility of receiving direct deposits.


   The Bottom Line  

Direct deposit is the deposit of funds electronically into a bank account rather than through a physical paper check. Salaries, tax refunds, investment redemptions, and government benefits are commonly paid in this way. Payees must provide the payer with their banking information in order to receive direct deposit payments. Payments normally take one to three days to process.
What Is Direct Investment?  

Direct investment is more commonly referred to as foreign direct investment (FDI). FDI refers to an investment in a foreign business enterprise designed to acquire a controlling interest in the enterprise. The direct investment provides capital funding in exchange for an equity interest without the purchase of regular shares of a company's stock.





Key Takeaways:

Direct investment, or foreign direct investment, is designed to acquire a controlling interest in an enterprise.Direct investment provides capital funding in exchange for an equity interest without the purchase of regular shares of a company's stock.Direct investment may involve a company in one country opening its own business operations in another country.Direct investment can also involve acquiring control of a business's assets already operating in the foreign country.There are three general types of direct investment: vertical, horizontal, or conglomerate investment.


   Understanding Direct Investment  

The purpose of FDI is to gain an equity interest sufficient to control a company. In some instances, it involves a company in one country opening its own business operations in another country. In other cases, direct investment involves acquiring control of existing assets of a business already operating in the foreign country. A direct investment can involve gaining a majority interest in a company or a minority interest, but the interest acquired gives the investing party effective control.



Direct investment is primarily distinguished from portfolio investment, the purchase of common or preferred stock shares of a foreign company, and by the element of control that is sought.



Control can come from sources other than an investment of capital; however, control of assets such as technology is considered only a critical input. In fact, FDI is frequently not a simple monetary transfer of ownership or controlling interest but can include complementary factors, such as organizational and management systems or technology.



Foreign direct investments can be made by individuals but are more commonly made by companies wishing to establish a business presence in a foreign country.


   Examples of Foreign Direct Investment  

Foreign direct investment takes many forms in practice but is generally classified as either a vertical, horizontal, or conglomerate investment.



For a vertical direct investment, the investor adds foreign activities to an existing business. An example is an American auto manufacturer that establishes dealerships or acquires a parts supply business in a foreign country.



Horizontal direct investment is perhaps the most common form of direct investment. For horizontal investments, a business already existing in one country establishes the same business operations in a foreign country. A fast-food franchise based in the United States might open restaurant locations in China. Horizontal direct investment is also referred to as green-field entry into a foreign market.



For a conglomerate-type direct investment, an existing company in one country adds an unrelated business operation in a foreign country. This is a particularly challenging form of direct investment since it requires simultaneously establishing a new business and establishing it in a foreign country. An example of conglomerate direct investment might be an insurance firm opening a resort park in a foreign country.
What Is Direct Market Access (DMA)?  

Direct market access (DMA) refers to access to the electronic facilities and order books of financial market exchanges that facilitate daily securities transactions. Direct market access requires a sophisticated technology infrastructure and is often owned by sell-side firms. Rather than relying on market-making firms and broker-dealers to execute trades, some buy-side firms use direct market access to place trades themselves.





Key Takeaways

Direct market access describes the direct access to the electronic facilities and order books of the financial market exchanges in order to execute trades.Individual investors typically do not have direct market access but usually rely on an intermediary brokerage firm for trade execution.Investment banks and other sell-side firms use sophisticated electronic trading technology that allows them direct market access to the exchanges.Sell-side firms may offer direct market access on a sponsored basis to buy-side entities, such as hedge funds, pension funds, and mutual funds.


   Understanding Direct Market Access (DMA)  

Direct market access is the direct connection to financial market exchanges that makes the completion of a financial market transaction final. Exchanges are organized marketplaces where stocks, commodities, derivatives, and other financial instruments are traded. Some of the most well-known exchanges are the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Nasdaq, and the London Stock Exchange (LSE).



Individual investors typically do not have direct market access to the exchanges. While trade execution is usually immediately enacted, the transaction is fulfilled by an intermediary brokerage firm. While brokerage firms can work on a market-making quote basis, it has become more common since the 1990s for brokerage platforms to use direct market access for completing the trade. With direct market access, the trade is executed at the final market transaction phase by the brokerage firm. The order is accepted by the exchange for which the security trades and the transaction is recorded on the exchange's order book.



Intermediary brokerage firms are known to have direct market access for completing trade orders. In the broad market, various entities can own and operate direct market access platforms. Broker-dealers and market-making firms have direct market access. Sell-side investment banks are also known for having direct market access. Sell-side investment banks have trading groups that execute trades with direct market access.


   Direct Market Access Technology  

In the financial markets, sell-side firms offer their direct market access trading platforms and technology to buy-side firms who wish to control the direct market access trading activities for their investment portfolios. Examples of buy-side entities include hedge funds, pension funds, mutual funds, life insurance companies, and private equity funds. This form of control over trading activities is considered sponsored access.



The technology and infrastructure required to develop a direct market access trading platform can be expensive to build and maintain. Companies that offer direct market access sometimes combine this service with access to advanced trading strategies such as algorithmic trading. Thus, there are agreements between direct market access platform owners and sponsored firms that outline the services offered and the stipulations of the agreement.


   Benefits of Direct Market Access  

With direct market access, a trader has full transparency of an exchange’s order book and all of its trade orders. Direct market access platforms can be integrated with sophisticated algorithmic trading strategies that can streamline the trading process for greater efficiency and cost savings. Direct market access allows buy-side firms to often execute trades with lower costs. Order execution is extremely fast, so traders are better able to take advantage of very short-lived trading opportunities.


   Special Considerations  

Market regulators such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) oversee all of the market’s trading activities and have raised some concerns over the sharing or sponsored access agreements offered by sell-side firms. If a buy-side firm does not have direct market access, then it must partner with a sell-side firm, brokerage, or bank with direct market access to determine a trading price and execute the final transaction.



FINRA's concern stems from the potential market disruption that could occur if poorly regulated direct market access results in trading errors caused by computers or humans. The damage from these trading errors could be compounded by high-speed trading automation and high-volume trading. To address these trading risks, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires firms that provide direct market access to maintain a system of risk management controls over the trading actions allowed through sponsored access.
What Is Direct Marketing?  

Direct marketing consists of any marketing that relies on direct communication or distribution to individual consumers, rather than through a third party such as mass media. Mail, email, social media, and texting campaigns are among the delivery systems used. It is called direct marketing because it generally eliminates the middleman, such as advertising media.





Key Takeaways

Direct marketing consists of any marketing that relies on direct communication or distribution to individual consumers, rather than through a third party such as mass media.The call to action is a common factor in much of direct marketing.The effectiveness of direct marketing is easier to measure than media advertising.


   How Direct Marketing Works  

Unlike traditional public relations campaigns pushed out through a third party such as media publications or mass media, direct marketing campaigns operate independently to directly communicate with target audiences. In direct marketing, companies deliver their messaging and sales pitches by social media, email, mail, or phone/SMS campaigns. Although the number of communications sent can be massive, direct marketing often attempts to personalize the message by inserting the recipient's name or city in a prominent place to increase engagement.



The call to action is an essential part of direct marketing. The recipient of the message is urged to immediately respond by calling a toll-free phone number, sending in a reply card, or clicking on a link in a social media or email promotion. Any response is a positive indicator of a prospective purchaser. This variety of direct marketing is often called direct response marketing.


  Targeting in Direct Marketing  

A direct marketing pitch that is delivered to the widest possible audience is probably the least effective. That is, the company may gain a few customers while merely annoying all of the other recipients. Junk mail, spam email, and texting all are forms of direct marketing that many people can't get rid of fast enough.



The most effective direct marketing campaigns use lists of targeted prospects in order to send their messages only to the likeliest prospects. For example, the lists might target families who have recently had a baby, new homeowners, or recent retirees with products or services that they are most likely to need.



Catalogs are the oldest form of direct marketing, with a history that dates back to the latter half of the 19th century. In modern times, catalogs are usually sent only to consumers who have indicated an interest in a previous purchase of a similar product while social media has emerged as the most modern form of direct marketing. Targeting strategies can also be used on social media when putting out ads; platforms like Facebook allow brands to choose the age, gender, demographics, and even interests of potential new audiences that an ad could reach.



Many companies engage in opt-in or permission marketing, which limits their mailing or emailing to people who have indicated a willingness to receive it. Lists of opt-in subscribers are particularly valuable as they indicate a real interest in the products or services being advertised.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   The Advantages and Disadvantages of Direct Marketing  

Direct marketing is one of the most popular and effective marketing tools in order to establish a direct connection with a target audience. Direct marketing has its appeal, particularly to companies on a shoestring budget who can't afford to pay for television or internet advertising campaigns. Especially as the world becomes increasingly connected through digital platforms, social media becomes an effective way to market to customers.



The main drawback with direct marketing, however, is the profile-raising and image building that comes with a third party accrediting your brand. For example, although a company may pay for a sponsored article in The New York Times, this can greatly enhance a brand's image and can help "seal the deal" with customers who are willing to trust a supposedly unbiased source or external opinion.



By its nature, the effectiveness of a direct marketing campaign is easier to measure than other types of advertising, since brands can analyze their own analytics, track unique source codes, and tweak strategies effectively without going through a middleman. The company can measure its success by how many consumers make the call, return the card, use the coupon, or click on the link.
What Is the Direct Method?  

The direct method is one of two accounting treatments used to generate a cash flow statement. The statement of cash flows direct method uses actual cash inflows and outflows from the company's operations, instead of modifying the operating section from accrual accounting to a cash basis. Accrual accounting recognizes revenue when it is earned versus when the payment is received from a customer.



Conversely, the cash flow direct method measures only the cash that's been received, which is typically from customers and the cash payments or outflows, such as to suppliers. The inflows and outflows are netted to arrive at the cash flow. The direct method is also known as the income statement method.





Key Takeaways

Cash flow from operations for a time period can be determined using either the direct or indirect method.The cash flow direct method determines changes in cash receipts and payments, which are reported in the cash flow from the operations section.The indirect method takes the net income generated in a period and adds or subtracts changes in the asset and liability accounts to determine the implied cash flow.The direct method for the statement of cash flows provides more detail about the operating cash flow accounts, although it's time-consuming.






The cash flow statement's direct method takes the actual cash inflows and outflows to determine the changes in cash over the period.


   Understanding the Direct Method  

The three main financial statements are the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement. The cash flow statement is divided into three categories—cash flow from operating, cash flow from financing, and cash flow from investing activities. The cash flow statement can be prepared using either the direct or indirect method. The cash flow from financing and investing activities’ sections will be identical under both the indirect and direct method.



The indirect method for calculating cash flow from operations uses accrual accounting information, and it always begins with the net income from the income statement. The net income is then adjusted for changes in the asset and liability accounts on the balance sheet by adding to or subtracting from net income to derive the cash flow from operations.



Under the direct method, the only section of the statement of cash flows that will differ in the presentation is the cash flow from the operations section. The direct method lists the cash receipts and cash payments made during the accounting period. The cash outflows are subtracted from the cash inflows to calculate the net cash flow from operating activities, before the net cash from investing and financing activities are included to get the net cash increase or decrease in the company for that period of time.


   Complexities of the Direct Method  

The difficulty and time required to list all the cash disbursements and receipts—required for the direct method—makes the indirect method a preferred and more commonly used practice. Since most companies use the accrual method of accounting, business activities are recorded on the balance sheet and income statement consistent with this method. 



For example, a company using accrual accounting will report sales revenue on the income statement in the current period even if the sale was made on credit and cash has not yet been received from the customer. This same amount would also appear on the balance sheet in accounts receivable. Companies that use accrual accounting do not also collect and store transactional information per customer or supplier on a cash basis.



Another complexity of the direct method is that the FASB requires a business using the direct method to disclose the reconciliation of net income to the cash flow from operating activities that would have been reported if the indirect method had been used to prepare the statement. The reconciliation report is used to check the accuracy of the operating activities, and it is similar to the indirect report. The reconciliation report begins by listing the net income and adjusting it for non-cash transactions and changes in the balance sheet accounts. This added task makes the direct method unpopular among companies.


   Direct Method Example  

Examples of the direct method for the statement of cash flows included in the operations section include the following:



Salaries paid to employees
Cash paid to vendors and suppliers
Cash collected from customers
Interest income and dividends received
Income tax paid and interest paid



A straightforward presentation of the cash flow from operations section using the direct method looks somewhat like this:









 Cash flow from operating activities:
  


 Cash receipt from customers
 $1,500,000


 Wages and salaries
 (450,000)


 Cash paid to vendors
 (525,000)


 Interest Income
 175,000


 Income before income taxes
 $700,000


 Interest paid
 (125,000)


 Income taxes paid
 (237,500)


 Net cash from operating activities
 $337,500






Listing out information this way provides the financial statement user with a more detailed view of where a company’s cash came from and how it was disbursed. For this reason, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) recommends companies use the direct method.



Although it has its disadvantages, the statement of cash flows direct method reports the direct sources of cash receipts and payments, which can be helpful to investors and creditors.
What Is a Direct Participation Program (DPP)?  

A direct participation program (DPP) is a pooled entity that offers investors access to a business venture's cash flow and tax benefits. Also known as a "direct participation plan," DPPs are non-traded pooled investments in real estate or energy-related ventures over an extended time frame.





Key Takeaways

A direct participation program, or DPP, offers investors access to a business's cash flow and tax benefits.A DPP requires a buy-in from the members in order to access the program's benefits.Most DPPs are real-estate investment trusts (REITs) and limited partnerships. 


   Understanding a Direct Participation Program (DPP)  

In most direct participation programs, limited partners put up money (their stake is quantified in "units"), which is then invested by a general partner. Most DPPs are managed passively and have a lifespan of five to 10 years. During that time, all tax deductions, as well as the DPP's income, are passed to partners. Because of the income they generate and their pooled nature, DPPs have become a popular way for average investors to access investments that have normally been reserved for wealthy investors, though with some restrictions.



A direct participation program is usually organized as a limited partnership, a subchapter S corporation, or a general partnership. Such structures allow the DPP's income, losses, gains, tax credits, and deductions to transfer though to the underlying partner/taxpayer on a pre-tax basis. Accordingly, the DPP itself pays no corporate tax.



DPPs are not traded, which means that they lack liquidity and a reliable pricing mechanism—especially compared to equities that trade on a stock market. As such, DPPs tend to require that clients meet asset and income thresholds to invest. These requirements can vary by state.


   Types of Direct Participation Programs  

The most common DPPs are non-traded REITs (about two-thirds of the DPP market), non-listed business development companies (BDC) (which act as debt instruments for small businesses), energy exploration and development partnerships, and equipment leasing corporations.



A DPP may have the legal structure of a corporation (such as a REIT), a limited partnership or a limited liability corporation (LLC), but in practice, all behave as a limited partnership. A DPP gives an investor partial ownership of a physical asset, such as the underlying property in a REIT, the machinery in an equipment leasing venture or wells and income from oil sales in an energy partnership.


   Special Consideration: Direct Participation Program Structure  

In DPPs, limited partners are the investors. Should the DPP lose money, their downside is limited to what they invested. The general partner manages the investment; limited partners have no say in the management and receive no benefit from the DPP's operations. Limited partners can, however, vote to change or fire a general partner, or sue one for not acting in the best interest of the partnership. 



Direct participation programs have their origin in the Securities Act of 1933 and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) Rule 2310.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ Series 7 candidates can expect to see several questions on DPPs on their exam.
What Is a Direct Public Offering (DPO)?  

A direct public offering (DPO) also known as a direct listing, is a type of offering in which a company offers its securities directly to the public to raise capital. An issuing company using a DPO eliminates the intermediaries—investment banks, broker-dealers, and underwriters—that are typical in initial public offerings (IPO), and self-underwrites its securities.



Cutting out the intermediaries from a public offering substantially lowers the cost of capital of a DPO. Therefore, a DPO is attractive to small companies and companies with an established and loyal client base. A DPO is also known as direct placement.





Key Takeaways

With a direct public offering (DPO), or direct placement, a company raises capital by offering its securities directly to the public.A DPO enables a company to eliminate the intermediaries that are normally part of such an offering and ultimately cut costs.Raising money independently allows a firm to avoid the restrictions of bank and venture capital funding; the terms of the offering are solely established by the issuing company.Pre-DPO, the company must present compliance documents to regulators of each state where it plans on offering securities; but unlike with an IPO, the firm doesn't usually need to register with the SEC.


   How a Direct Public Offering Works  

When a firm issues securities through a direct public offering (DPO), it raises money independently without the restrictions associated with bank and venture capital financing. The terms of the offering are solely up to the issuer who guides and tailors the process according to the company's best interests. The issuer sets the offering price, the minimum investment per investor, the limit on the number of securities that any one investor can buy, the settlement date, and the offering period within which investors can purchase the securities and after which the offering will be closed.






On Dec. 22, 2020, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announced that it will allow companies to raise capital through direct listings, paving the way for circumvention of the traditional initial public offering (IPO) process. In a direct listing, a company floats its shares on an exchange without hiring investment banks to underwrite the transaction as an initial public offering. In addition to saving on fees, companies that follow the direct listing process may avoid the usual IPO restrictions, including lockup periods that prevent insiders from selling their shares for a defined period of time.



In some cases, where there are a large number of shares to be issued or time is of the essence, the issuing company may employ the services of a commission broker to sell a portion of the shares to the broker’s clients or prospects on a best efforts basis.






Issuing companies can raise capital from the public without the stringent security measures and costs required by the SEC since most of them qualify for key federal securities exemptions.


   Timeline of a DPO  

The amount of time necessary to prepare a DPO is variable: it can take a few days or a few months. During the preparation stage, the company initiates an offering memorandum which describes the issuer and the type of security that will be sold. Securities that can be sold through a DPO include common shares, preferred shares, REITs, and debt securities, and more than one type of investment can be offered through the DPO. The company also decides which medium will be used to market the securities. Potential options include newspaper and magazine ads, social media platforms, public meetings with prospective shareholders, and telemarketing campaigns, among others.



Before finally offering its securities to the public, the issuing company has to prepare and file compliance documents to the securities regulators under the Blue Sky Laws of each state where it intends on conducting a DPO. These documents would normally include the offering memorandum, articles of incorporation, and up-to-date financial statements that show the health of the company. Receiving regulatory approval on a DPO application could take three weeks or several months depending on the state.



Most DPOs do not require the issuers to register with the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) because they qualify for certain federal securities exemptions. For example, the intrastate exemption or Rule 147 excludes registration with the SEC as long as the company is incorporated in the state where it is offering securities and only selling the securities to residents of that state.


   How a DPO Is Formally Announced  

After receiving regulatory approval, the issuing company running a DPO uses a tombstone ad to formally announce its new offering to the public. The issuer opens up the securities for sale to accredited and non-accredited investors or investors that the issuer already knows subject to any limitations by the regulators. These investors may include acquaintances, clients, suppliers, distributors, and employees of the firm. The offering closes when all securities offered have been sold or when the closing date for the offering period has been clocked.



A DPO that has an intended minimum and maximum number of securities to be sold will be canceled if the interest or number of orders received for the securities falls below the minimum required. In this case, all funds received will be refunded to the investors. If the number of orders exceeds the maximum number of shares offered, the investors would be served on a first-come basis or have their shares prorated among all investors.






The United States Treasury has the most popular DPO system for its debt securities: TreasuryDirect is a 24-hour online system for individual investors buying and selling Treasury securities such as notes, bonds, bills, savings bonds, and Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS).


   How a DPO Is Traded  

Although an issuing company can raise funds from the company through a DPO, a trading exchange platform for its securities will still not be available. Unlike an IPO that usually trades on the NYSE or Nasdaq after its offering, a DPO will not have such a trading platform but can opt to trade in the over-the-counter markets (OTC). Like OTC securities, DPO securities may face illiquidity and risk if they are not registered and do not conform to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.





3

The number of major companies since 2018 to opt for a direct listing, rather than an IPO; they are Spotify in April 2018, Slack in June 2019, and Coinbase in January 2021. However, Slack was purchased by Salesforce in July 2021 and is no longer listed on the exchange.


   Prominent Examples of DPOs  

One of the earliest notable DPOs was in 1984 by Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield, two entrepreneurs who needed approximately $750,000 for their ice cream business. They advertised their ownership stakes through local newspapers for $10.50 per share with 73,500 available, offering 17.5% of the company. Their loyal fan base in Vermont took advantage of the offer and the company, Ben & Jerry’s Ice Cream, raised the needed funds in a few months.



Popular music streaming service Spotify (SPOT) launched a direct public offering on April 3, 2018. Spotify opted to underwrite its own shares via a direct listing, meaning that there is no supporting bank to buttress share prices by purchasing any additional stock if necessary. At the same time, Spotify's DPO was unique among offerings of this type: SPOT is also listed on the New York Stock Exchange. In previous cases in which companies have listed on exchanges as part of a DPO, there have typically been other special circumstances, such as previous bankruptcy filings, a shift from one exchange to another, and so on. Spotify was not subject to any of these conditions. As a company which already enjoyed massive popularity and cash flow positivity prior to its public offering, Spotify was able to bypass the typical publicity and fundraising efforts involved in an IPO.



On June 20, 2019, enterprise software company Slack debuted on the New York Stock Exchange via a direct listing; the stock opened at a share price of $38.50, more than 48% above the $26 per share reference price set by the NYSE. Slack was purchased by Salesforce in July 2021 and is no longer listed on the exchange.
What Is a Direct Quote?  

A direct quote is a foreign exchange rate quoted in fixed units of foreign currency in variable amounts of the domestic currency. In other words, a direct currency quote asks what amount of domestic currency is needed to buy one unit of the foreign currency—most commonly the U.S. dollar (USD) in forex markets. In a direct quote, the foreign currency is the base currency, while the domestic currency is the counter currency or quote currency.



This can be contrasted with an indirect quote, in which the price of the domestic currency is expressed in terms of a foreign currency, or what is the amount of domestic currency received when one unit of the foreign currency is sold. Note that a quote involving two foreign currencies (or one not involving USD) is called a cross currency quote.





Key Takeaways

A direct quote is a currency pair quote where the foreign currency is expressed in per-unit terms of the domestic currency.A direct quote gives you the quantity of local currency needed to purchase one unit of foreign currency.Because the U.S. dollar is the most traded currency in the world, the USD generally serves as the base currency in most direct quotes. Some major exceptions to this rule include the British pound and the euro.


   Understanding Direct Quotes  

The use of direct quotes versus indirect quotes depends on the location of the trader asking for the quote, as that determines which currency in the pair is domestic and which is foreign. Non-business publications and other media usually quote foreign exchange rates in direct terms for the ease of consumers. However, the foreign exchange market has quoting conventions that transcend local borders.



A direct quote can be compared to an indirect quote as its inverse, or by the following expression:



DQ = 1/IQ



Where:



DQ = Direct QuoteIQ = Indirect Quote



In a direct quote, a higher exchange rate implies that the domestic currency is depreciating or becoming weaker since the price of the foreign currency is effectively rising—and vice versa. Thus, if the USD/JPY (direct) quotation changes from 100 to 105, it indicates the yen is weakening against the dollar because it would take 5 more yen (the local currency) to buy 1 USD (the foreign currency).


  U.S. Dollars  

The U.S. dollar (USD) is the most actively traded currency in the world. In the context of trading rooms and professional publications, most currencies are quoted as the number of foreign currency units per dollar. This means that the dollar serves as the base currency, whether the speaker is in the United States or elsewhere.



An example of a direct quote using U.S. dollars might be stating $1.17 Canadian per U.S. dollar, rather than 85.5 U.S. cents per Canadian dollar, which would be the indirect quote.


  British Pounds  

A major exception to the dollar-base quote rule is when the British pound (GBP) is quoted against other currencies, including the dollar, but with the exception of the euro. This reflects the fact that the pound was the world's dominant currency in the years leading up to World War II and before the ascendancy of the U.S. economy.



The exchange rate for the pound would thus be quoted as $1.45 per £1, regardless of whether this is considered direct (in the United States) or indirect (in the United Kingdom).


  Euros  

The euro (EUR) came into existence on Jan. 1, 1999 as the unit of account for participating European Union (EU) member nations; notes and coins were first issued on Jan. 1, 2002. The euro replaced many major traded European currencies, including the German mark, the French franc, and the Dutch guilder.



The European Central Bank (ECB), which oversaw the conversion, intended the currency to be the financial market's dominant currency. It specified that the euro should always be the base currency whenever it is traded, including against both the U.S. dollar and the British pound. For this reason, quotes are always the number of dollars, pounds, Swiss francs, or Japanese yen needed to buy €1.
What Is a Direct Stock Purchase Plan (DSPP)?  

A direct stock purchase plan (DSPP) is a program that enables individual investors to purchase a company's stock directly from that company without the intervention of a broker. Some companies that offer DSPPs make the plans directly available to retail investors, while others use transfer agents or other third-party administrators to handle these transactions. Such plans offer low fees and sometimes the ability to purchase shares at a discount.



Not all companies offer DSPPs, and such plans may come with certain restrictions about when an individual may purchase shares. DSPPs have lost some of their appeal over the last two decades as investing through online brokers has become less expensive and more convenient, though DSPPs still offer an advantage for the long-term investor who doesn't have much money to get started.





Key Takeaways

A direct stock purchase plan (DSPP) allows investors to purchase shares directly from the company.DSPPs require very little money to get started.Some DSPPs have no fees, but most have small fees.These programs present long-term investors with a simple and automatic way to acquire shares over time.


   How a Direct Stock Purchase Plan (DSPP) Works  

A DSPP allows individual investors to establish an account in which to make deposits for the purpose of purchasing shares directly from a given company. The investor makes a monthly deposit (usually by ACH) and the company applies that amount toward purchasing shares. Each month, the plan purchases new shares of company stock (or fractions of shares) based on the money available from deposits or dividend payouts, if any.



This mechanism makes it easy and automatic to slowly accumulate shares from a given company. Because these plans often have very low fees (and sometimes no fees), it makes DSPPs an inexpensive way for first-time investors to enter the financial markets. The minimum deposits for participating can range from as little as $100 to $500.



Perhaps the most common means of direct investment is dividend reinvestment, which is the act of using one's dividends to buy more shares in the same company. For companies that pay dividends, you can set up a DSPP to purchase the shares automatically and then reinvest any income payments through an optional dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP). DRIPs allow investors to reinvest their cash dividends into additional shares or fractional shares of the underlying stock on the dividend payment date.



One drawback of a DSPP is that the shares are rather illiquid—it is difficult to re-sell one's shares without using a broker. As a result, these plans generally function best for investors with a long-term investment strategy.


   Direct Stock Purchase Plans (DSPPs) and the Issuer  

As much as DSPPs can benefit investors, they also can be worthwhile to the company that offers them. DSPPs may bring in new investors who otherwise might not have been able to invest in the company. Moreover, a DSPP can provide a company with the ability to raise additional funds at a reduced cost.



Companies that offer DSPPs usually cite information about the plans on their websites, under the investor relations, shareholder services, or frequently asked questions (FAQ) sections. Here, you will find details about account minimums, investment minimums, any fees applicable to their offerings, trading details, and the like.



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulates a DSPP’s activity just as it does a brokerage's activities. So, although the mechanism for investing in DSPPs is slightly different from going through a broker, the risks of buying stock are equally present regardless of how the stock is purchased.


   Limitations of Direct Stock Purchase Plans (DSPPs)  
  An Investment Product Past its Prime?  

DSPPs were seen as a pretty sweet deal in the early days of internet investing because you still had to pay significant trading or management fees to full-service brokers if you wanted to buy stock. However, as online investing has become cheaper over time, some of the original positive factors of DSPPs have faded.



For example, an often-cited advantage of DSPPs is that shareholders do not need to maintain physical certificates as proof of purchase—an agent registers DSPP transactions directly onto the company’s books. Today, however, this benefit is practically moot because most stocks are kept in electronic form in a broker's computer system, which is known as in street name. In other words, paper certificates have well-nigh disappeared anyway.



Thus, while the concept of DSPPs may remain appealing, they are no longer quite as functional in today’s reality.


  Uncertainty about Trade Date and Stock Price  

When you make a new purchase through a DSPP, regardless of whether you make a one-time purchase or sign up to invest monthly, typically you will not have any control over the respective trade date. When you use a transfer company the transaction may not happen for a number of weeks. Basically, the purchase goes through at whatever the stock price happens to be at that time.



On the other hand, discount brokers allow you to trade in real-time, so you always know the price.


  Diversification  

A cardinal precept of investing is to diversify your investments. So, unless you are enrolled in dozens of DSPPs across multiple industries and internationally, or have most of your investments in index funds, mutual funds, or exchange-traded funds (ETF), you may be inadequately diversified.



In fact, just about any individual stock purchase, whether direct or broker transacted, runs this same risk. You need to diversify. DSPPs on their own typically will not do the trick for the average investor.


  No Fees, Really?  

Although a DSPP’s associated fees are low, it is rare that a plan would have no fees at all. Many charge initial setup fees, and some charge for each purchase transaction, as well as sales fees.



Even very small fees can add up over time, especially if you are slowly and automatically adding to your position. So, as with any investment, always read a DSPP prospectus carefully to see what fees you might be charged.


   Special Considerations  

All things considered, the greatest benefit of DSPPs for individual investors remains the ability to avoid commissions by not going through brokers. For some, investing in DSPPs still is a good option. For the small investor who is ready to buy individual shares of a particular company to add to their portfolio and hold for the long term, a DSPP may be a thrifty way to do so.
What Is a Direct Tax?  

A direct tax is a tax that a person or organization pays directly to the entity that imposed it. Examples include income tax, real property tax, personal property tax, and taxes on assets, all of which are paid by an individual taxpayer directly to the government.





Key Takeaways

A direct tax is paid by an individual or organization to the entity that levied the tax.Direct taxes include income taxes, property taxes, and taxes on assets.There are also indirect taxes, such as sales taxes, wherein a tax is levied on the seller but paid by the buyer.


   Understanding a Direct Tax  

Direct taxes in the United States are largely based on the ability-to-pay principle. This economic principle states that those who have more resources or earn a higher income should bear a greater tax burden. Some critics see that as a disincentive for individuals to work hard and earn more money because the more a person makes, the more taxes they pay.



Direct taxes cannot be passed on to a different person or entity. The individual or organization upon which the tax is levied is responsible for paying it.



A direct tax is the opposite of an indirect tax, wherein the tax is levied on one entity, such as a seller, and paid by another—such as a sales tax paid by the buyer in a retail setting. Both kinds of taxes are important revenue sources for governments.






Examples of indirect taxes include excise duties on fuel, liquor, and cigarettes as well as a value-added tax (VAT), also referred to as a consumption tax.


   The History of Direct Taxes  

The modern distinction between direct taxes and indirect taxes came about with the ratification of the 16th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution in 1913. Before the 16th Amendment, tax law in the United States was written so that direct taxes had to be directly apportioned to a state's population. A state with a population that was 75% of the size of another state's, for example, would only be required to pay direct taxes equal to 75% of the larger state's tax bill.



This antiquated verbiage created a situation in which the federal government could not impose many direct taxes, such as a personal income tax, due to apportionment requirements. However, the advent of the 16th Amendment changed the tax code and allowed for the levying of numerous direct and indirect taxes.


   Examples of Direct Taxes  

Corporate taxes are a good example of direct taxes. If, for example, a manufacturing company reports $1 million in revenue, $500,000 in the cost of goods sold (COGS), and $100,000 in operating costs, its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) would be $400,000. If the company has no debt, depreciation, or amortization, and has a corporate tax rate of 21%, its direct tax would be $84,000 ($400,000 x 0.21 = $84,000).



An individual's federal income tax is another example of a direct tax. If a person makes $100,000 in a year, for example, and owes the government $20,000 in taxes, that $20,000 would be a direct tax.



There are a number of other direct taxes that are common in the United States, such as the property taxes that homeowners are required to pay. Those are typically collected by local governments and based on the assessed value of the property.



Other types of direct taxes in the U.S. and elsewhere include use taxes (such as vehicle licensing and registration fees), estate taxes, gift taxes, and so-called sin taxes on liquor and cigarettes, for example.




What Are Examples of Direct Taxes?
Direct taxes are taxes paid directly to the party that levied them, such as the IRS. Common examples include income, capital gains, or property tax that a taxpayer pays to the government.




What Is the Difference Between Direct Tax and Indirect Tax?
Direct taxes cannot be shifted to another party and remain your responsibility to pay. Indirect taxes are the opposite. Whoever is liable for these taxes can pass on or shift them to another person or group.




What Are Some Examples of Indirect Taxes?
Common examples of indirect taxes include sales tax, excise tax, value-added tax (VAT), and goods and services tax (GST). Often, businesses get individual consumers to foot the bill and cover these costs by charging higher prices.
What Is the Directional Movement Index (DMI)?  

The directional movement index (DMI) is an indicator developed by J. Welles Wilder in 1978 that identifies in which direction the price of an asset is moving. The indicator does this by comparing prior highs and lows and drawing two lines: a positive directional movement line (+DI) and a negative directional movement line (-DI). An optional third line, called the average directional index (ADX), can also be used to gauge the strength of the uptrend or downtrend.



When +DI is above -DI, there is more upward pressure than downward pressure in the price. Conversely, if -DI is above +DI, then there is more downward pressure on the price. This indicator may help traders assess the trend direction. Crossovers between the lines are also sometimes used as trade signals to buy or sell.





Key Takeaways

The directional movement index (DMI) is a technical indicator that measures both the strength and direction of a price movement and is intended to reduce false signals.The DMI utilizes two standard indicators, one negative (-DM) and one positive (+DN), in conjunction with a third, the average directional index (ADX), which is non-directional but shows momentum.The larger the spread between the two primary lines, the stronger the price trend. If +DI is way above -DI the price trend is strongly up. If -DI is way above +DI then the price trend is strongly down.ADX measures the strength of the trend, either up or down; a reading above 25 indicates a strong trend.


   The Formulas for the Directional Movement Index (DMI) Are  

﻿















+DI


=



(




Smoothed +DM




ATR 




)



×


1


0


0
















-DI


=



(




Smoothed -DM




ATR 




)



×


1


0


0
















DX


=



(




∣


+DI


−


-DI


∣




∣


+DI


+


-DI


∣




)



×


1


0


0
















where:
















+DM (Directional Movement)


=


Current High


−


PH
















PH


=


Previous high
















-DM


=


Previous Low


−


Current Low
















Smoothed +/-DM


=





∑



t


=


1




1


4




DM


−



(





∑



t


=


1




1


4




DM




1


4




)



+


CDM


















CDM


=


Current DM
















ATR


=


Average True Range








\begin{aligned} &\text{+DI} = \left ( \frac{ \text{Smoothed +DM} }{ \text{ATR } } \right ) \times 100 \\ &\text{-DI} = \left ( \frac{ \text{Smoothed -DM} }{ \text{ATR } } \right ) \times 100 \\ &\text{DX} = \left ( \frac{ \mid \text{+DI} - \text{-DI} \mid }{ \mid \text{+DI} + \text{-DI} \mid } \right ) \times 100 \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{+DM (Directional Movement)} = \text{Current High} - \text{PH} \\ &\text{PH} = \text{Previous high} \\ &\text{-DM} = \text{Previous Low} - \text{Current Low} \\ &\text{Smoothed +/-DM} = \textstyle{ \sum_{t=1}^{14} \text{DM} - \left ( \frac{ \sum_{t=1}^{14} \text{DM} }{ 14 } \right ) + \text{CDM} } \\ &\text{CDM} = \text{Current DM} \\ &\text{ATR} = \text{Average True Range} \\ \end{aligned}


​+DI=(ATR Smoothed +DM​)×100-DI=(ATR Smoothed -DM​)×100DX=(∣+DI+-DI∣∣+DI−-DI∣​)×100where:+DM (Directional Movement)=Current High−PHPH=Previous high-DM=Previous Low−Current LowSmoothed +/-DM=∑t=114​DM−(14∑t=114​DM​)+CDMCDM=Current DMATR=Average True Range​﻿


   Calculating the Directional Movement Index  

Calculate +DM, -DM, and the true range (TR) for each period. Typically 14 periods are used.
+DM is the current high - previous high.
-DM is the previous low - current low.
Use +DM when the current high - previous high is greater than the previous low - current low. Use -DM when the previous low - current low is greater than the current high - previous high.
The TR is the greater of the current high - current low, the current high - previous close, or the current low - previous close.
Smooth the 14-period averages of +DM, -DM, and the TR. Below is the formula for TR. Insert the -DM and +DM values to calculate the smoothed averages of those as well.
First 14TR = Sum of first 14 TR readings.
Next 14TR value = First 14TR - (Prior 14TR/14) + Current TR
Next, divide the smoothed +DM value by the smoothed average true range (ATR) value to get +DI. Multiply by 100.
Divide the smoothed -DM value by the smoothed TR value to get -DI. Multiply by 100.
The optional directional index (DX) is +DI minus -DI, divided by the sum of +DI and -DI (all absolute values). Multiply by 100. 
The average directional movement index (ADX) is a smoothed average of DX, and is another indicator that can be added to the DMI. To get the ADX, continue to calculate DX values for at least 14 periods. Then, smooth the results to get ADX.


   What Does the Directional Movement Index Tell You  

The DMI is primarily used to help assess trend direction and provide trade signals.



Crossovers are the main trade signals. A long trade is taken when the +DI crosses above the -DI and an uptrend could be underway. Meanwhile, a sell signal occurs when the +DI instead crosses below the -DI. In such cases, a short trade may be initiated because a downtrend might be underway.






While this method may produce some good signals, it will also produce some bad ones since a trend may not necessarily develop after entry.



The indicator can also be used as a trend or trade confirmation tool. If the +DI is well above -DI, the trend has strength on the upside, and this would help confirm current long trades or new long trade signals based on other entry methods. Conversely, if -DI is well above +DI, this confirms the strong downtrend or short positions.















TradingView.


   The Directional Movement Index vs. the Aroon Indicator  

The DMI indicator is composed of two lines, with an optional third line. The Aroon indicator also has two lines. The two indicators both show positive and negative movement, helping to identify trend direction.



The calculations are different, though, so crossovers on each of the indicators will occur at different times.


   Limitations of the Directional Movement Index  

The DMI is part of a larger system called the average directional movement index (ADX). The trend direction of DMI can be incorporated with the strength readings of the ADX. Readings above 20 on the ADX mean the price is trending strongly. Whether using ADX or not, the indicator is still prone to producing lots of false signals.



Notably, +DI and -DI readings and crossovers are based on historical prices and don't necessarily reflect what will happen in the future. A crossover can occur, but the price may not respond, resulting in a losing trade.



The lines may also crisscross, resulting in multiple signals but no trend in the price. This can be somewhat avoided by only taking trades in the larger trend direction based on long-term price charts, or incorporating ADX readings to help isolate strong trends.
What Is Dirty Price?  

A dirty price is a bond pricing quote, which refers to the cost of a bond that includes accrued interest based on the coupon rate. Bond price quotes between coupon payment dates reflect the accrued interest up to the day of the quote.



In short, a dirty bond price includes accrued interest while a clean price does not.





Key Takeaways

A dirty price includes accrued interest along with a bond's coupon payment.If a bond quotes between coupon payment dates, the price cited includes accrued interest up to the day of the quote. In short, a dirty bond price includes accrued interest while a clean bond price does not.Clean quotes are typical in the United States, and dirty quotes are standard in Europe.


   Understanding Dirty Price  

Accrued interest is earned when a coupon bond is currently in between coupon payment dates. As the next coupon payment date approaches, the accrued interest increases each day until the payment of the coupon. On the day of the coupon payment, the clean price and dirty price are equal since there is no accrued interest until the next market day.



The dirty price is sometimes called the price plus accrued. In the United States, the clean price is quoted more often while in Europe, the dirty price is the standard.



The dirty price allows a seller to calculate the actual cost of a bond since the bond might have accrued interest from the previous coupon payment date. So, the date of the sale would reflect the clean price plus any accrued interest, calculated daily. As a result, a buyer's actual price paid for the bond is higher than the quoted price on financial websites because it accounts for the accrued interest and the broker's commission.


   Accrued Interest  

The interest increases at a steady rate on a bond and calculation of the earned amount happen each day. As a result, the dirty price will change daily until the payout, or coupon payment, date. Once the payout is complete, and the accrued interest resets to zero, the dirty and clean prices are the same.



In the case of bonds offering semiannual payments, the dirty price would rise slightly higher every day over the course of six months. Once the six-month mark arrives, and the coupon payment is made, the accrued interest resets to zero to begin the cycle again. The dirty-to-clean process continues until the bond reaches maturity.


   Dirty Vs. Clean Pricing  

The dirty price is typically quoted between brokers and investors, but the clean price or the price without accrued interest is usually considered the published price. The clean price would likely be recorded in newspapers or financial resources that perform price tracking. Although the dirty price includes accrued interest, the clean price is often considered to be the value of the bond in the current market.


   Real-World Example of a Dirty Price  

As an example, let's say Apple Inc. issued a bond with a $1,000 face value while $960 is the published price. The bond pays an interest rate—coupon rate—of 4% annually, and these payments are semiannual. As a result, investors would receive $20 every six months for holding the bond.



The price of $960 is the published price or the clean price. However, an investor looking to purchase the bond would receive a quote from a broker that includes the $960 plus any accrued interest. The broker would calculate the daily per diem of interest that has accumulated. Let's assume there's no broker commission. Depending on the day the investor made the purchase, the accrued interest would vary.



So, if the investor bought the bond a day before the first coupon payment of $20 it results in $19 of accrued interest up to that date. The investor's bond's price would be $979, or $960 plus $19 in accrued interest.
What Is Disability Insurance?  

As its name suggests, disability insurance is a type of insurance product that provides income in the event that a policyholder is prevented from working and earning an income due to a disability.



In the United States, individuals can obtain disability insurance from the government through the Social Security System. They can also purchase disability insurance from private insurers.





Key Takeaways

Disability insurance is a type of insurance protecting against loss of income due to disability.Disability insurance is available through both public and private programs.Some of the variables affecting the cost of disability insurance include the strictness of requirements for qualifying under the plans; the amount of income to be replaced; the length of time in which benefits are paid; the medical history; and the length of time policyholders must wait before beginning to collect those benefits.


   How Disability Insurance Works  

Oftentimes, insurance products will protect against a specific loss, such as when a property and casualty insurance plan reimburses the policyholder for the value of stolen property. However, in the case of disability insurance, this compensation relates to the lost income caused by a disability.



For example, if a worker earned $50,000 per year prior to becoming disabled, and if their disability prevents them from continuing to work, their disability insurance would compensate them for a portion of their lost income provided that they qualify. In this sense, disability insurance essentially covers the opportunity cost of the now-disabled worker.



In practice, there are many conditions that a policyholder must satisfy in order to receive these payments. This is particularly true in regard to the U.S. Social Security System. To qualify for government-sponsored disability insurance, applicants must prove that their disability is so severe that it prevents them from engaging in any type of meaningful work at all.



By contrast, some private plans only require the applicant to demonstrate that they can no longer continue in the same line of work that they were previously engaged in. The Social Security System also requires applicants to demonstrate that their disability is expected to last for at least 12 months or that it is expected to result in death.



As with all types of insurance, disability insurance plans will carry more expensive premiums if their terms and conditions are more favorable to the policyholder. Conversely, plans with less generous terms will typically carry lower insurance premiums. Some of the key features that affect insurance premiums in disability insurance plans include the length of the elimination period, which is the length of time that the applicant must wait after becoming disabled before they can begin receiving benefits; the benefit period, which is how long those benefits continue to be paid; and how strict the definition of “disability” is under the policy.


   Real-World Example of Disability Insurance  

As a rough estimate, disability insurance typically costs about 2% of the annual salary of the person being insured. Of course, the actual amount will depend on the insurance carrier and on policy features such as those discussed above. Different individuals will have different preferences in terms of how much they are willing to pay in exchange for greater or poorer protections from potential disability.



To illustrate, consider two hypothetical workers. Worker A is a professional working in a highly specialized field. It took Worker A ten years of post-secondary education to become qualified in their field, and this has allowed them to generate a relatively large income of $250,000 per year. Worker B, on the other hand, is a high-school graduate who regularly switches between jobs and earns about $30,000 per year.



Worker A knows that, if they become disabled, they may still be able to work in another field, but this would very likely require a significant loss of income. For this reason, they decide to purchase a relatively expensive disability insurance plan that has a flexible definition of disability.



Because of Worker A’s high income, they can easily afford their relatively high premiums. Worker B, on the other hand, decides to opt for a plan with lower premiums even if that plan has a stricter definition of disability. In addition to having fewer resources available to pay for premiums, Worker B is also less reluctant to work in an area outside of their current occupation, since the nature of their work is less specialized.
What Is Disbursement?  

Disbursement means paying out money from a fund. The term disbursement may be used to describe money paid into a business' operating budget, the delivery of a loan amount to a borrower, or the payment of a dividend to shareholders. Money paid by an intermediary, such as a lawyer's payment to a third party on behalf of a client, may also be called a disbursement.



To a business, disbursement is part of cash flow. It is a record of day-to-day expenses. If cash flow is negative, meaning that disbursements are higher than revenues, it can be an early warning of insolvency. Learn more about the types of disbursements.





Key Takeaways

A disbursement is the delivery of money from a fund.In business accounting, a disbursement is a payment in cash during a specific time period and is recorded in the general ledger of the business.A record of disbursements shows how the business is spending cash over time.Payments of dividends to shareholders are often termed disbursements.Student loan money paid into a school's account on behalf of a student is a disbursement.


   How Disbursement Works  

A disbursement in bookeeping is a payment made by the company in cash or cash equivalents during a set time period, such as a quarter or a year. A bookkeeper records each transaction and posts it to one or more ledgers, such as a cash disbursement journal and the general ledger.



An entry for a disbursement includes the date, the payee name, the amount debited or credited, the payment method, and the purpose of the payment. The overall cash balance of the business is then adjusted to account for the disbursement.



Disbursements journals and ledgers are a record of the money flowing out of the business and may differ from actual profit or loss. For example, a company using the accrual method of accounting reports expenses when they occur, not necessarily when they are paid, and reports income when it is earned, not when it is received.





Note

The type of items listed in the ledger depends on the business. A retailer has payments for inventory, accounts payable, and salaries. A manufacturer has transactions for raw materials and production costs.



Managers use the ledgers to determine how much cash has been disbursed and to track it. For example, management can see how much cash is being spent on inventory compared to other costs. Since the ledger records the numbers of the checks issued, the managers also can see whether any checks are missing or incorrectly recorded.


   Types of Disbursement  

Types of disbursements include controlled disbursements and the delayed disbursements, which are also called remote disbursements.


  Controlled Disbursement  

Controlled disbursement is a type of cash flow management service that banks make available to their corporate clients. It allows them to review and reschedule disbursements on a day-to-day basis. That gives them the opportunity to maximize the interest they earn on the cash in their accounts by delaying the precise time that an amount of money is debited from the account.


  Delayed Disbursement  

Delayed disbursement, also called remote disbursement, is deliberately dragging out the payment process by paying with a check drawn on a bank located in a remote region. In the days when a bank could process a payment only when the original paper check was received, this could delay the debit to the payer's account for several business days.



The widespread adoption of electronic transfers in lieu of a paper check has made delayed disbursements less common.






A withdrawal from a retirement account is considered a disbursement. Once the money is disbursed, it is recorded on the account as a drawdown of the balance.


   Disbursement vs. Drawdown  

A disbursement is a payment. A drawdown, however, is a consequence of a particular type of disbursement. If you take money out of a retirement account, you receive a disbursement of money. That disbursement represents a drawdown on the balance in your account.



For example, if you're a retiree and you withdraw 10% of a $100,000 balance in a traditional IRA account, that $10,000 you receive is a disbursement from your IRA. It also represents a drawdown of $10,000, or 10%, from your account, which would then have a balance of $90,000.


   Examples of Disbursements  

Disbursements are used in many circumstances. For example, while pursuing a legal case, an attorney must keep a record of disbursements made on behalf of a client. This may include payments to various third parties for costs incurred in the case, including court fees, private investigator services, courier services, and expert reports.



Properly documenting these costs is crucial in a legal case in order to make an accurate determination of the client’s losses and create an understanding of claimed damages. The attorney must notify the client and the insurance company before incurring high disbursement costs, and the client must reimburse the attorney.


  Student Loan Disbursement  

A student loan disbursement is the payout of loan proceeds on behalf of a borrower, who is the student. Schools and loan servicers notify students of the expected receipt of the disbursements in writing, including the amount of the loan and its effective date.



Federal and private student loans are generally disbursed two or more times during the academic year. The student receives a credit to pay tuition and fees and will receive any remaining balance by check or direct deposit.


  Positive and Negative Disbursements  

A loan disbursement may be positive or negative. A positive disbursement results in a credit to an account, while a negative disbursement results in an account debit. A negative disbursement may occur if financial aid funds are overpaid and later withdrawn from the student's account.




What Is a Loan Disbursement?
A loan is disbursed when the agreed-upon amount is paid into the borrower's account and is available for use. When the loan is disbursed, the cash has been debited from the lender's account and credited to the borrower's account.




Is a Disbursement a Refund?
According to the U.S. Department of Education's Office of Federal Student Aid, a disbursement is the actual payment of the funds into an account that will support a student's studies in the upcoming semester. If the loan amount exceeds the actual costs of tuition and fees, a refund of the excess is paid directly to the student.




What Is the Difference Between a Disbursement and a Payment?
A disbursement is a payment from a fund. The word disbursement implies a payment that has been finalized. That is, it has been properly recorded as a debit on the payer's side and a credit on the payee's side.




What Is a Disbursement Fee?
A disbursement fee is usually a vendor's charge to cover payments made by the vendor in the course of its work on behalf of a customer. For example, FedEx may pay duty and tax charges for a shipment on behalf of a customer, and then add a disbursement fee to its bill to the customer to cover the payments.


   The Bottom Line  

A disbursement is a payment made from a fund, or a payment that has been debited from the payer's account and credited to the payee's account.



In business, the regular recording of all disbursements of cash is a crucial method of keeping tabs on the expenditures of the business. In broader terms, the word disbursement is used in a variety of contexts, from the crediting of student loan money to a withdrawal from a retirement account.
What Is Disclosure?  

In the financial world, disclosure refers to the timely release of all information about a company that may influence an investor's decision. It reveals both positive and negative news, data, and operational details that impact its business.



Similar to disclosure in the law, the concept is that all parties should have equal access to the same set of facts in the interest of fairness.



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) develops and enforces disclosure requirements for all firms incorporated in the U.S. Companies that are listed on the major U.S. stock exchanges must follow the SEC's regulations.





Key Takeaways

Federal regulations require the disclosure of all relevant financial information by publicly-listed companies.In addition to financial data, companies are required to reveal their analysis of their strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats.Substantive changes to their financial outlooks must be released in a timely fashion.


   Understanding Disclosure  

Federal government-mandated disclosure came into being in the U.S. with the passage of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Both laws were responses to the stock market crash of 1929 and the Great Depression that followed.



The public and politicians alike blamed a lack of transparency in corporate operations for intensifying if not outright causing the financial crisis.


  Sarbanes-Oxley  

Since then, additional legislation such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 extended public-company disclosure requirements and government oversight of them.



As mandated by the SEC, disclosures include those related to a company's financial condition, operating results, and management compensation.


  Insider Information  

The SEC requires specific disclosures because the selective release of information places individual shareholders at a disadvantage. For example, insiders can use material nonpublic information for personal gain at the expense of the general investing public. Clearly outlined disclosure requirements ensure companies adequately disseminate information so that all investors are on an even playing field.



Companies are not the only entities subject to strict disclosure regulations. Brokerage firms, investment managers, and analysts must also disclose any information that might influence and affect investors. To limit conflict-of-interest issues, analysts and money managers must disclose any equities they personally own.


  SEC-Required Disclosure Documents  

The SEC requires all publicly-traded companies to prepare and issue two disclosure-related annual reports, one for the SEC itself and one for the company's shareholders. These reports are filed as documents called 10-Ks and must be updated by the company as events change substantially.





Feb. 17, 2020

Apple warns that the coronavirus pandemic will affect its quarterly earnings.



Any company seeking to go public must disclose information as part of a two-part registration that includes a prospectus and a second document that contains other material information. That information includes the company's own strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats (SWOT) analysis of the competitive environment it operates within.



The SEC imposes stricter disclosure requirements for firms in the securities industry. For example, company officers of investment banks must make personal disclosures regarding the investments they own and investments owned by their family members.


   Real-World Example of Disclosure  

On March 4, 2020, the global spread of the coronavirus led the SEC to advise all public companies to make appropriate disclosures to their shareholders of the likely impact of the crisis on their future operations and financial results.


  Early Warnings  

Many companies had already done just that. In mid-February, Apple warned that the pandemic was a threat to its revenue numbers, as it was jeopardizing its supply chain from China and slowing retail sales. The company invalidated its previous projections without immediately offering new estimates.



Airline and other travel-related companies also warned of the impact on their businesses, along with consumer goods manufacturers that depend on China for manufacturing or consumer sales, or both.
What Are Discontinued Operations?  

In financial accounting, discontinued operations refer to parts of a company’s core business or product line that have been divested or shut down, and which are reported separately from continuing operations on the income statement.





Key Takeaways

Discontinued operations is an accounting term for parts of a firm's operations that have been divested or shut down.They are reported on the income statement as a separate entry from continuing operations.When companies merge, understanding which assets are being divested can give a clearer picture of how a company will make money in the future.


   Understanding Discontinued Operations  

Discontinued operations are listed separately on the income statement because it's important that investors can clearly distinguish the profits and cash flows from continuing operations from those activities that have ceased.



This distinction is especially useful when companies merge, as parsing out which assets are being divested or folded gives a clearer picture of how a company will make money in the future.






On a company's income statement, discontinued operations are segregated from continuing operations so that investors may see clearly what money is inflowing from current operations vs. those which have ceased.


   Disclosure on Income Statements  

When operations are discontinued, a company has multiple line items to report on its financial statements. Although the business component is being shut down, it still could generate a gain or loss in the current accounting period.



The total gain or loss from the discontinued operations is thus reported, followed by the relevant income taxes. This tax is often a future tax benefit because discontinued operations often incur losses. To determine the company's total net income (NI), the gain or loss from discontinued operations is aggregated with that of continuing operations.



So as not to confuse adjustments to the financial statements that relate to previously reported discontinued operations, a company may classify the adjustments separately in the discontinued operations section of its financials. Adjustments may occur because of benefit plan obligations, contingent liabilities, or contingent contract terms.



If the buyer of a discontinued operation assumes the debt associated with the operation, any interest expense before the sale is allocated to discontinued operations. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) do not allow general corporate overhead to be allocated to discontinued operations.


  Discontinued Operations Under GAAP  

A company may report discontinued operations under GAAP as long as two conditions are met:



First, the transaction to shut down the divested business will result in eliminating the operations and cash flows of the divested business from company operations.Second, once it has been discontinued, the closed business must have no significant ongoing involvement with its operations. If these two conditions are met, then a company may report discontinued operations on its financial statements.


  Discontinued Operations Under IFRS  

The reporting rules under international financial reporting standards (IFRS) differ slightly from GAAP. A discontinued operation must meet two criteria:



First, the asset or business component must be disposed of or reported as being held for sale.Second, the component must be distinguishable as a separate business that is being removed from operation intentionally or a subsidiary of a component being held with the intent to sell.



Unlike GAAP reporting requirements, IFRS rules permit equity method investments to be classified as held for sale. Moreover, under IFRS, entities may continue involvement with the discontinued operation. As with GAAP, discontinued operations are reported in a special section of the income statement.
What Is a Discount?  

In finance and investing, a discount refers to a situation when a security is trading for lower than its fundamental or intrinsic value.



In fixed-income trading, a discount occurs when a bond's price is trading below its par or face value, with the size of the discount equal to the difference between the price paid for a security and its par value. Bonds may trade at a discount for several reasons, including rising interest rates, or due to credit issues or riskiness associated with the underlying company compared to comparable bonds.



A discount should not be confused with the discount rate, which is an interest rate used for computing the time value of money.





Key Takeaways

In fixed-income trading, a discount occurs when a bond's price is trading below its par or face value, Bonds may trade at a discount for several reasons, including rising interest rates, or financial distress with the issuer.Discount bonds may thus indicate the belief that the underlying company may default on its debt obligations.


   Understanding Bond Discounts  

The par value of a bond is most often set at $1,000. The par value is the amount that the issuer will repay to an investor when the debt security matures. If the price of the bond in the market is lower than $1,000, it is said to be trading at a discount. A discount bond may be contrasted with a bond trading at a premium, where the market price is above its face.



A bond may trade at a discount for several reasons. Because bond prices and interest rates are inversely correlated, if a bond offers a lower interest (coupon) rate than the prevailing interest rate in the economy, it will become less attractive than newly issued bonds with higher coupons, and it may be discounted accordingly. In other words, because the issuer is not paying as high of an interest rate to bondholders, these bonds must command a lower price in order to be competitive.



For example, if a bond with a par value of $1,000 is currently selling for $990, it is selling at a discount of 1% or $10 ($1000/$990 = 1).






The term "coupon" comes from the days of physical bond certificates—as opposed to electronic ones—when some bonds had coupons attached to them. Some examples of bonds that trade at a discount include U.S. savings bonds and Treasury bills.


   Deep Discounts and Pure Discount Instruments  

One type of discount bond is a pure discount instrument. This bond pays nothing until maturity. The bond is instead sold at a sizeable discount. However, when it reaches maturity, it repays the bondholder the full par value. For example, if you purchase a pure discount instrument for $900 and the par value is $1,000, you will receive a total of $1,000 when the bond reaches maturity (and a profit of $100).



Investors will not receive regular interest income payments from pure discount bonds. However, their return on investment is measured by the price appreciation of the bond. The more discounted the bond at the time of purchase, the higher the investor's implied rate of return at the time of maturity.



An example of a pure discount bond is a zero-coupon bond, which doesn't pay interest but instead is sold at a deep discount. The discount amount is equal to the amount lost by a lack of interest payments. Zero-coupon bond prices tend to fluctuate more often than bonds with coupons.



The term deep discount doesn't only apply to zero-coupon bonds. It can be applied to any bond that is trading at 20% or more below market value.


   Discounts vs. Premiums  

A discount is the opposite of a premium. When a bond is sold for more than the par value, it sells at a premium. A premium occurs if the bond is sold at, for example, $1,100 instead of its par value of $1,000. Conversely to a discount, a premium occurs when the bond has a higher interest rate than the market interest rate (or a better company history).


   Other Types of Discount  

Other securities, such as stocks or derivatives, can similarly be sold at a discount. However, this reduction in price is not often due to interest rates. Instead, a discount could be implemented for a stock issue in order to generate buzz around a particular company.



Companies may also offer discounts on their products or services to lure customers or boost sales. Cash discounts refer to an incentive that a seller offers to a buyer in return for paying a bill before the scheduled due date. In a cash discount, the seller will usually reduce the amount that the buyer owes by either a small percentage or a set dollar amount.
What Is a Discount Bond?  

A discount bond is a bond that is issued for less than its par—or face—value. Discount bonds may also be a bond currently trading for less than its face value in the secondary market. A bond is considered a deep-discount bond if it is sold at a significantly lower price than par value, usually at 20% or more.



A discount bond may be contrasted with a bond sold at a premium.





Key Takeaways

A discount bond is a bond that is issued, or trades in the market for less than its par or face value.A distressed bond trading at a significant discount to par can effectively raise its yield to attractive levels.Discount bonds may indicate the belief that the underlying company may default on their debt obligations.


   Understanding Discount Bonds  

Many bonds are issued with a $1,000 face value meaning the investor will be paid $1,000 at maturity. However, bonds are often sold before maturity and bought by other investors in the secondary market. Bonds that trade at a value of less than face value would be considered a discount bond. For example, a bond with a $1,000 face value that's currently selling for $95 would be a discounted bond.



Since bonds are a type of debt security, bondholders or investors receive interest from the bond's issuer. This interest is called a coupon that is usually paid semiannually but, depending on the bond may be paid monthly, quarterly, or even annually. Discount bonds can be bought and sold by both institutional and individual investors. However, institutional investors must adhere to specific regulations for the selling and purchasing of discount bonds. A common example of a discount bond is a U.S. savings bond.


   Interest Rates and Discount Bonds  

Bond yields and bond prices have an inverse, or opposite, relationship. As interest rates increase, the price of a bond will decrease, and vice versa. A bond that offers bondholders a lower interest or coupon rate than the current market interest rate would likely be sold at a lower price than its face value. This lower price is due to the opportunity investors have to buy a similar bond or other securities that give a better return.



For example, let's say, interest rates rise after an investor purchases a bond. The higher interest rate in the economy decreases the value of the newly-purchased bond due to paying a lower rate versus the market. That means if our investor wants to sell the bond on the secondary market, they will have to offer it for a lower price. Should the prevailing market interest rates rise enough to push the price or value of a bond below its face value it's referred to as a discount bond.



However, the "discount" in a discount bond doesn't necessarily mean that investors get a better yield than the market is offering. Instead, investors are getting a lower price to offset the bond's lower yield relative to interest rates in the current market. For example, if a corporate bond is trading at $980, it is considered a discount bond since its value is below the $1,000 par value. As a bond becomes discounted or decreases in price, it means its coupon rate is lower than current yields.



Conversely, if current interest rates fall below the coupon rate offered on an existing bond, the bond will trade at a premium or a price higher than face value.


   Using Yield to Maturity  

Investors can convert older bond prices to their value in the current market by using a calculation called yield to maturity (YTM). Yield to maturity considers the bond's current market price, par value, coupon interest rate, and time to maturity to calculate a bond's return. The YTM calculation is relatively complex, but many online financial calculators can determine the YTM of a bond.


   Default Risk with Discount Bonds  

If you buy a discount bond, the chances of seeing the bond appreciate are reasonably high, as long as the lender doesn't default. If you hold out until the bond matured, you'll be paid the face value of the bond, even though what you originally paid was less than face value. Maturity rates vary between short-term and long-term bonds. Short-term bonds mature in less than one year while long-term bonds can mature in 10 to 15 years, or even longer.



However, the chances of default for longer-term bonds might be higher, as a discount bond can indicate that the bond issuer might be in financial distress. Discount bonds can also indicate the expectation of issuer default, falling dividends, or a reluctance to buy on the part of the investors. As a result, investors are compensated somewhat for their risk by being able to buy the bond at a discounted price.


   Distressed and Zero-Coupon Bonds  

A distressed bond is a bond that has a high likelihood of default and can trade at a significant discount to par, which would effectively raise its yield to desirable levels. However, distressed bonds are not usually expected to pay full or timely interest payments. As a result, investors who buy these securities are making a speculative play.



A zero-coupon bond is a great example of deep discount bonds. Depending on the length of time until maturity, zero-coupon bonds can be issued at substantial discounts to par, sometimes 20% or more. Because a bond will always pay its full, face value, at maturity—assuming no credit events occur—zero-coupon bonds will steadily rise in price as the maturity date approaches. These bonds don't make periodic interest payments and will only make one payment of the face value to the holder at maturity. 


   The Pros and Cons of Discount Bonds  

Just as with buying any other discounted products there is risk involved for the investor, but there are also some rewards. Since the investor buys the investment at a discounted price it provides greater opportunity for greater capital gains. The investor must weigh this advantage against the disadvantage of paying taxes on those capital gains.



Bondholders can expect to receive regular returns unless the product is a zero-coupon bond. Also, these products come in long and short-term maturities to fit the investor's portfolio needs. Consideration of the creditworthiness of the issuer is important, especially with longer-term bonds, due to the chance of default. The existence of the discount in the offering indicates there is some concern of the underlying company being able to pay dividends and return the principal on maturity.





Pros

There is a high potential for capital gains since bonds sell at less than face value with some offered at a deep discount of 20% or more
Investors receive regular interest—usually semi-annually—unless the offering is a zero-coupon bond.
Discount bonds are available with short-term and long-term maturities.



Cons

Discount bonds can indicate the expectation of an issuer's default, falling dividends, or a reluctance of investors to buy the debt.
Discount bonds with longer-term maturities have a higher risk of default.
Deeper discounted bonds indicate a company is in financial distress and is at risk of default on its obligation.





   Real-World Example of a Discount Bond  

As of March 28, 2019, Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY) has a bond that's currently a discount bond. Below are the details of the bond including its the bond issue number, coupon rate at the time of the offering, and other information.



Issue: BBBY4144685
Description: BED BATH & BEYOND INC
Coupon Rate: 4.915
Maturity Date: 08/01/2034
Yield at Offering: 4.92%
Price at Offering: $100.00
Coupon Type: Fixed



The current price for the bond, as of a settlement date of March 29, 2019, was $79.943 versus the $100 price at the offering. For reference, the 10-year Treasury yield trades at 2.45% making the yield on the BBBY bond much more attractive than current yields. However, BBBY has had financial difficulty over the last few years, making the bond risky as we can see that it trades at a discount price despite the coupon rate being higher than the current yield on a 10-year Treasury note.



The yield has at times, traded higher than the coupon rate with some days as high as 7%, which further indicates that the bond is deeply discounted since the yield is much higher than the coupon rate while its price much lower than its face value.
What Is a Discount Broker?  

A discount broker is a stockbroker who carries out buy and sell orders at reduced commission rates compared to a full-service broker. However, a discount broker does not provide investment advice or perform analysis on a client's behalf, unlike a full-service broker. Before the emergence of better communications technology, only individuals with a far above average annual income could afford a broker and access to the stock market.



However, the Internet has brought an explosion of discount online brokers that allow individuals with smaller capital to trade for lower fees and with less capital. In terms of the stock market, most discount brokers operate through online platforms. As a result, a discount broker is nearly synonymous with online brokerages.





Key Takeaways:

A discount broker is a stockbroker who carries out buy and sell orders with little or no commissions.Discount brokers do not provide the investment advice or guidance provided by a full-service broker.Discount online brokers compose a large section of the fintech industry.


   Understanding Discount Brokers  

Discount brokers carry out orders at less cost, but they typically just execute orders for their clients. These brokers do not offer personal consultations, advice, research, tax planning, and estate planning services for customers. The lack of these services, and because they do not spend money closing deals with high-net-worth individuals, means that discount brokers can offer lower fees. Additionally, most discount brokers operate their businesses online where the overheads are low. So low in fact, that beginning in 2019, many discount brokers even went so far as to forego commissions altogether for certain types of securities.



In the securities industry, discount brokerages provide clients with their own accounts to enter orders for execution. These investors usually do not interact with a live broker. If they do, the communication is minimal and only engaged in trade executions. The services provided by discount brokers are aimed at self-directed traders and investors, and the electronic trading platforms are built in a way that is beneficial for active traders with charting and position monitoring services.


   Choosing Between Full-Service and Discount Brokers  

Whether an investor opts for a discount broker or a full-service broker depends on their investing knowledge, market experience, financial goals, and current financial status. Since commissions typically take a healthy chunk out of investment and trading returns, some individuals opt to go for products offered by discount brokers instead.



Full-service brokers are a better option for investors who need professional investment advice or require support to stay on top of their financial planning outside of investing. Discount brokers are particularly useful to investors and traders who actively buy and sell securities on a frequent basis. Investors who frequently trade benefit from the lower commissions discount brokers charge. Investors who don't need advice, have small portfolios, or just want their trades executed are also usually better off using discount brokers.


   Discount Brokers in Other Industries  

Discount brokers can also be found in the real estate and other financial services fields. Discount brokers in the real estate industry help individuals buy and sell properties. These discount brokers also have access to the same home listings as full-service real estate agents and help clients to access that directly for a fee, but they do not take the client through the purchase as a traditional realtor would.



Discount brokers may also sell insurance products—although, again, they do not provide professional financial advice. In general, if you know exactly what you need and want, you can probably find a discount broker that will do as you instruct for less money than an advice-oriented broker would charge.
What Is a Discount Margin—DM?  

A discount margin (DM) is the average expected return of a floating-rate security (typically a bond) that's earned in addition to the index underlying, or reference rate of, the security. The size of the discount margin depends on the price of the floating- or variable-rate security. The return of floating-rate securities changes over time, so the discount margin is an estimate based on the security's expected pattern between issue and maturity.



Another way to view the discount margin is to think of it as the spread that, when added to the bond's current reference rate, will equate the bond's cash flows to its current price.





key takeaways

Discount margin is a type of yield-spread calculation designed to estimate the average expected return of a variable-rate security, usually a bond.A discount margin is the spread (a security's yield relative to the yield of its benchmark) that equates the security's future cash flow to its current market price.


   Understanding a Discount Margin—DM  

Bonds and other securities with variable interest rates are usually priced close to their par value. This is because the interest rate (coupon) on a variable rate bond adjusts to current interest rates based on changes in the bond's reference rate. A security's yield relative to the yield of its benchmark is called a spread, and different types of yield-spread calculations exist for the different pricing benchmarks.



The discount margin is one of the most common calculations: It estimates the security's spread above the reference index that equates the present value of all expected future cash flows to the current market price of the floating rate note. 



There are three basic situations involving a discount margin:



If the price of floating rate security, or floater, is equal to par, the investor's discount margin would be equal to the reset margin.
Due to the tendency for bond prices to converge to par as the bond reaches maturity, the investor can make an additional return over the reset margin if the floating rate bond was priced at a discount. The additional return plus the reset margin equals the discount margin.
Should the floating rate bond be priced above par, the discount margin would equal the reference rate less the reduced earnings.


   Calculating the Discount Margin—DM  

The discount margin formula is a complicated equation that takes into account the time value of money and typically needs a financial spreadsheet or calculator to calculate accurately. There are seven variables involved in the formula. They are:



P = the floating rate note's price plus any accrued interest
c(i) = the cash flow received at the end of time period i (for final period n, the principal amount must be included)
I(i) = the assumed index level at time period i
I(1) = the current index level
d(i) = number of actual days in period i, assuming the actual/360-day count convention
d(s) = number of days from the start of the time period until settlement date
DM = the discount margin, the variable to solve for



All coupon payments are unknown, with the exception of the first, and must be estimated in order to calculate the discount margin. The formula, which must be solved by iteration to find DM, is as follows:



The current price, P, equals the summation of the following fraction for all time periods from the beginning time period to maturity:



numerator = c(i)



denominator = (1 + (I(1) + DM) / 100 x (d(1) - d(s)) / 360) x Product (i, j=2)( 1 + (I(j) + DM) / 100 x d(j) / 360)
What Is a Discount Rate?  

The discount rate is the interest rate the Federal Reserve charges commercial banks and other financial institutions for short-term loans. The discount rate is applied at the Fed's lending facility, which is called the discount window.



A discount rate can also refer to the interest rate used in discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis to determine the present value of future cash flows. In this case, investors and businesses can use the discount rate for potential investments.





Key Takeaways

In banking, the discount rate is the interest rate the Federal Reserve charges banks for short-term loans.Discount lending is a key monetary policy tool and part of the Fed's function as the lender-of-last-resort.In discounted cash flow analysis, the discount rate is the rate used to discount future cash flows in discounted cash flow analysis.The discount rate expresses the time value of money in DCF and can make the difference between whether an investment project is financially viable or not.You can calculate the discount rate in DCF as long as you know the future and present values and the total number of years.







Fed's Discount Rate





   How the Fed’s Discount Rate Works  

Commercial banks in the U.S. have two primary ways to borrow money for their short-term operating needs. They can borrow and loan money to other banks without the need for any collateral using the market-driven interbank rate, or they can borrow money for their short-term operating requirements from the Federal Reserve Bank.



Federal Reserve loans are processed through the 12 regional branches of the Fed. The loans are used by financial institutes to cover any cash shortfalls, head off any liquidity problems, or in the worst-case scenario, prevent the bank’s failure. This Fed-offered lending facility is known as the discount window.



The loans are incredibly short-term: 24 hours or less. The rate of interest charged is the standard discount rate. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve set this discount rate.


  The 3 Tiers of the Fed’s Discount Window Loans  

The Fed's discount window program runs three tiers of loans, each using a separate but related rate. It also allows for emergency credit approvals for banks in distress.



The Fed determines the discount rates for the first two tiers independently. The rate for the third tier is based on the prevailing rates in the market.



First Tier: Called the primary credit program, this tier provides capital to financially sound banks with good credit records. This primary credit discount rate is usually set above existing market interest rates which may be available from other banks or other sources of similar short-term debt.
Second Tier: Called the secondary credit program, it offers similar loans to institutions that do not qualify for the primary rate. It is usually set 50 basis points higher than the primary rate (one percentage point = 100 basis points). Institutions in this tier are smaller and may not be as financially healthy as the ones that use the primary tier.
Third Tier: Called the seasonal credit program, this one serves smaller financial institutions which experience higher seasonal variations in their cash flows. Many are regional banks that serve the needs of the agriculture and tourism sectors. Their businesses are considered relatively risky, so the interest rates they pay are higher.
Emergency Credit: Banks applying for emergency credit must demonstrate proof that they cannot find a loan from another bank and requires a vote with the support of at least five members of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve.






All three types of the Federal Reserve's discount window loans are collateralized​. The bank needs to maintain a certain level of security or collateral against the loan. Emergency credit may require collateral, but it's based on circumstances and the Fed's vote.


  Use of the Fed’s Discount Rate  

Borrowing institutions use this facility sparingly, mostly when they cannot find willing lenders in the marketplace. The Fed-offered discount rates are available at relatively high-interest rates compared to the interbank borrowing rates to discourage using the discount window too often.



The discount window is primarily intended as an emergency option for distressed banks—borrowing from it can even signal weakness to other market participants and investors.


   Example of Fed Discount Rate  

The use of the Fed's discount window soared in late 2007 and 2008 as financial conditions deteriorated sharply and the central bank took steps to inject liquidity into the financial system.



In August 2007, the Board of Governors cut the primary discount rate from 6.25% to 5.75%, reducing the premium over the Fed funds rate from 1% to 0.5%. In October 2008, the month after Lehman Brothers' collapse, discount window borrowing peaked at $403.5 billion against the monthly average of $0.7 billion from 1959 to 2006.



Owing to the financial crisis, the board extended the lending period from overnight to 30 days, then to 90 days in March 2008. Once the economy recovered, those temporary measures were revoked, and the discount rate was reverted to overnight lending only.



The Fed maintains its own discount rate under the discount window program in the U.S. Most central banks across the globe use similar measures, although they vary by area. For instance, the European Central Bank (ECB) offers standing facilities that serve the same purpose. Financial organizations can obtain overnight liquidity from the central bank against the presentation of sufficient eligible assets as collateral.






Most commonly, the Fed's discount window loans are overnight only, but the loan period can be extended in periods of extreme economic distress, such as the 2008-2009 credit crisis.


   How the Discount Rate Works in Cash Flow Analysis  

The same term, discount rate, is used in discounted cash flow analysis. DCF is used to estimate the value of an investment based on its expected future cash flows. Based on the concept of the time value of money, DCF analysis helps assess the viability of a project or investment by calculating the present value of expected future cash flows using a discount rate.



Such an analysis begins with an estimate of the investment that a proposed project will require. Then, the future returns it is expected to generate are considered. Using the discount rate, it is possible to calculate the current value of any future cash flows. The project is considered viable if the net present value (PV) is positive. If it is negative, the project isn't worth the investment.



In this context of DCF analysis, the discount rate refers to the interest rate used to determine the present value. For example, $100 invested today in a savings scheme with a 10% interest rate will grow to $110. In other words, $110, which is the future value (FV), when discounted by the rate of 10%, is worth $100 (present value) as of today.



If one knows (or can reasonably predict) all such future cash flows (like the future value of $110), then, using a particular discount rate, the present value of such an investment can be obtained.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   What Is the Right Discount Rate to Use?  

What is the appropriate discount rate to use for an investment or a business project? While investing in standard assets, like treasury bonds, the risk-free rate of return—generally considered the interest rate on the three-month Treasury bill—is often used as the discount rate.



On the other hand, if a business is assessing the viability of a potential project, the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) may be used as a discount rate. This is the average cost the company pays for capital from borrowing or selling equity.



In either case, the net present value of all cash flows should be positive if the investment or project is to get the green light.


   Types of Discounted Cash Flow  

There are different types of discount rates that apply to various investments of a business. What type is required depends on the needs and demands of investors and the company itself. Here are the most common:



Cost of Debt: Companies must take on debt to finance their operations and keep the business running. The interest rate they pay on this debt is known as the cost of debt.
Cost of Equity: The cost of equity is the rate corporations use to pay their shareholders. Investors expect a specific rate of return in exchange for taking on the risk of investing in a company.
Hurdle Rate: The minimum rate of return on a certain investment or undertaking is known as the hurdle rate. This allows them to make important decisions on whether the venture is a good fit.
Risk-Free Rate: The risk-free rate is the interest rate that comes with an investment or business venture with no risk.
Weighted Average Cost of Capital: This is the rate of return that investors expect for their capital. Investors can include equity shareholders and bondholders.


   Calculating the Discount Rate  

To calculate the discount rate, use the following formula:



DR = ( FV ÷ PV ) 1/n - 1



Where:



FV = Future value of cash flowPV = Present value(n) = Number of years until the FV



Here's an example to show how the discount rate works. Let's say you want to determine the discount rate on a certain investment using the following variables:









Future Value 
$5,000 


Present Value 
$3,500 


Number of Years 
10 






Now, let's use the formula above to determine the discount rate. For the fractional exponent, you can convert it to a decimal ( 1 ÷ 10 ):



DR = ( FV ÷ PV ) 1/n - 1DR = ( $5,000 ÷ $3,500 ) 1/10 - 1DR = $1.42857 0.1 - 1DR = 1.03631 - 1DR = 0.03631



So, in this case, the discount rate is 3.631%.




What Effect Does a Higher Discount Rate Have on the Time Value of Money?
The discount rate reduces future cash flows, so the higher the discount rate, the lower the present value of the future cash flows. A lower discount rate leads to a higher present value. As this implies, when the discount rate is higher, money in the future will be worth less than it is today—meaning it will have less purchasing power.




How Is Discounted Cash Flow Calculated?
There are three steps to calculating the DCF of an investment:Forecast the expected cash flows from the investment.Select an appropriate discount rate.Discount the forecasted cash flows back to the present using a financial calculator, a spreadsheet, or a manual calculation.




How Do You Choose the Appropriate Discount Rate?
The discount rate used depends on the type of analysis undertaken. When considering an investment, the investor should use the opportunity cost of putting their money to work elsewhere as an appropriate discount rate. That is the rate of return that the investor could earn in the marketplace on an investment of comparable size and risk.A business can choose the most appropriate of several discount rates. This might be an opportunity cost-based discount rate, its weighted average cost of capital, or the historical average returns of a similar project. In some cases, using the risk-free rate may be most appropriate.


   The Bottom Line  

The discount rate is the lending rate at the Federal Reserve's discount window, where banks can get a loan if they can't secure funding from another bank on the market. A discount rate is also calculated to make business or investing decisions using the discounted cash flow model.
What Is the Discount Yield?  

The discount yield is a way of calculating a bond's return when it is sold at a discount to its face value, expressed as a percentage. Discount yield is commonly used to calculate the yield on municipal notes, commercial paper and treasury bills sold at a discount.





Key Takeaways

Discount yield computes the expected return of a bond purchased at a discount and held until maturity.Discount yield is computed using a standardized 30-day month and 360-day year.This calculation is commonly used for evaluating Treasury bills and zero-coupon bonds.


   The Formula for Discount Yield Is:  

Discount yield is calculated as and the formula uses a 30-day month and 360-day year to simplify the calculation.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   Understanding the Discount Yield  

Discount yield computes a discount bond investor's return on investment (ROI) if the bond is held until maturity. A Treasury bill is issued at a discount from par value (face amount), along with many forms of commercial paper and municipal notes, which are short-term debt instruments issued by municipalities. U.S. Treasury bills have a maximum maturity of six months (26 weeks), while Treasury notes and bonds have longer maturity dates.



If a security is sold before the maturity date, the rate of return earned by the investor is different, and the new rate of return is based on the sale price of the security. If, for example, the $1,000 corporate bond purchased for $920 is sold for $1,100 five years after the purchase date, the investor has a gain on the sale. The investor must determine the amount of the bond discount that is posted to income before the sale and must compare that with the $1,100 sale price to calculate the gain.



A zero-coupon bond is a another example of a discount bond. Depending on the length of time until maturity, zero-coupon bonds can be issued at substantial discounts to par, sometimes 20% or more. Because a bond will always pay its full, face value, at maturity—assuming no credit events occur—zero-coupon bonds will steadily rise in price as the maturity date approaches. These bonds don't make periodic interest payments and will only make one payment of the face value to the holder at maturity.


   Example  

Assume, for example, that an investor purchases a $10,000 Treasury bill at a $300 discount from par value (a price of $9,700), and that the security matures in 120 days. In this case, the discount yield is ($300 discount)[/$10,000 par value] * 360/120 days to maturity, or a 9% dividend yield.


   The Differences Between Discount Yield and Accretion  

Securities that are sold at a discount use the discount yield to calculate the investor's rate of return, and this method is different than bond accretion. Bonds that use bond accretion can be issued a par value, at a discount or a premium, and accretion is used to move the discount amount into bond income over the remaining life of the bond.



Assume, for example, that an investor purchases a $1,000 corporate bond for $920, and the bond matures in 10 years. Since the investor receives $1,000 at maturity, the $80 discount is bond income to the owner, along with interest earned on the bond. Bond accretion means that the $80 discount is posted to bond income over the 10-year life, and an investor can use a straight-line method or the effective interest rate method. Straight-line posts the same dollar amount into bond income each year, and the effective interest rate method uses a more complex formula to calculate the bond income amount.
What Is Discounted Cash Flow (DCF)?  

Discounted cash flow (DCF) refers to a valuation method that estimates the value of an investment using its expected future cash flows.



DCF analysis attempts to determine the value of an investment today, based on projections of how much money that investment will generate in the future.



It can help those considering whether to acquire a company or buy securities make their decisions. Discounted cash flow analysis can also assist business owners and managers in making capital budgeting or operating expenditures decisions.





Key Takeaways


Discounted cash flow analysis helps to determine the value of an investment based on its future cash flows.
The present value of expected future cash flows is arrived at by using a projected discount rate.
If the DCF is higher than the current cost of the investment, the opportunity could result in positive returns and may be worthwhile.
Companies typically use the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for the discount rate because it accounts for the rate of return expected by shareholders.
A disadvantage of DCF is its reliance on estimations of future cash flows, which could prove inaccurate.













Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   How Does Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) Work?  

The purpose of DCF analysis is to estimate the money an investor would receive from an investment, adjusted for the time value of money.



The time value of money assumes that a dollar that you have today is worth more than a dollar that you receive tomorrow because it can be invested. As such, a DCF analysis is useful in any situation where a person is paying money in the present with expectations of receiving more money in the future.For example, assuming a 5% annual interest rate, $1 in a savings account will be worth $1.05 in a year. Similarly, if a $1 payment is delayed for a year, its present value is 95 cents because you cannot transfer it to your savings account to earn interest.



Discounted cash flow analysis finds the present value of expected future cash flows using a discount rate. Investors can use the concept of the present value of money to determine whether the future cash flows of an investment or project are greater than the value of the initial investment.



If the DCF value calculated is higher than the current cost of the investment, the opportunity should be considered. If the calculated value is lower than the cost, then it may not be a good opportunity, or more research and analysis may be needed before moving forward with it.



To conduct a DCF analysis, an investor must make estimates about future cash flows and the ending value of the investment, equipment, or other assets.



The investor must also determine an appropriate discount rate for the DCF model, which will vary depending on the project or investment under consideration. Factors such as the company or investor's risk profile and the conditions of the capital markets can affect the discount rate chosen.



If the investor cannot estimate future cash flows, or the project is very complex, DCF will not have much value and alternative models should be employed.






For DCF analysis to be of value, estimates used in the calculation must be as solid as possible. Badly estimated future cash flows that are too high can result in an investment that might not pay off enough in the future. Likewise, if future cash flows are too low due to rough estimates, they can make an investment appear too costly, which could result in missed opportunities.


   Discounted Cash Flow Formula  

The formula for DCF is:


















D


C


F


=




C



F


1





(


1


+


r



)


1





+




C



F


2





(


1


+


r



)


2





+




C



F


n





(


1


+


r



)


n



















where:
















C



F


1



=


The cash flow for year one
















C



F


2



=


The cash flow for year two
















C



F


n



=


The cash flow for additional years
















r


=


The discount rate







\begin{aligned}&DCF = \frac{ CF_1 }{ ( 1 + r ) ^ 1 } + \frac{ CF_2 }{ ( 1 + r ) ^ 2 } + \frac{ CF_n }{ ( 1 + r ) ^ n } \\&\textbf{where:} \\&CF_1 = \text{The cash flow for year one} \\&CF_2 = \text{The cash flow for year two} \\&CF_n = \text{The cash flow for additional years} \\&r = \text{The discount rate} \\\end{aligned}


​DCF=(1+r)1CF1​​+(1+r)2CF2​​+(1+r)nCFn​​where:CF1​=The cash flow for year oneCF2​=The cash flow for year twoCFn​=The cash flow for additional yearsr=The discount rate​


   Example of DCF  

When a company analyzes whether it should invest in a certain project or purchase new equipment, it usually uses its weighted average cost of capital (WACC) as the discount rate to evaluate the DCF.



The WACC incorporates the average rate of return that shareholders in the firm are expecting for the given year.



For example, say that your company wants to launch a project. The company's WACC is 5%. That means that you will use 5% as your discount rate.



The initial investment is $11 million, and the project will last for five years, with the following estimated cash flows per year.









Cash Flow




Year
Cash Flow


1
$1 million


2
$1 million


3
$4 million


4
$4 million


5
$6 million






Using the DCF formula, the calculated discounted cash flows for the project are as follows.










Discounted Cash Flow




Year
Cash Flow
Discounted Cash Flow (nearest $)


1
$1 million
$952,381


2
$1 million
$907,029


3
$4 million
$3,455,350


4
$4 million
$3,290,810


5
$6 million
$4,701,157






Adding up all of the discounted cash flows results in a value of $13,306,727. By subtracting the initial investment of $11 million from that value, we get a net present value (NPV) of $2,306,727.



The positive number of $2,306,727 indicates that the project could generate a return higher than the initial cost—a positive return on the investment. Therefore, the project may be worth making.



If the project had cost $14 million, the NPV would have been -$693,272. That would indicate that the project cost would be more than the projected return. Thus, it might not be worth making.






Dividend discount models, such as the Gordon Growth Model (GGM) for valuing stocks, are other analysis examples that use discounted cash flows.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of DCF  
  Advantages  

Discounted cash flow analysis can provide investors and companies with an idea of whether a proposed investment is worthwhile.



It is analysis that can be applied to a variety of investments and capital projects where future cash flows can be reasonably estimated.



Its projections can be tweaked to provide different results for various what if scenarios. This can help users account for different projections that might be possible.


  Disadvantages  

The major limitation of discounted cash flow analysis is that it involves estimates, not actual figures. So the result of DCF is also an estimate. That means that for DCF to be useful, individual investors and companies must estimate a discount rate and cash flows correctly.



Furthermore, future cash flows rely on a variety of factors, such as market demand, the status of the economy, technology, competition, and unforeseen threats or opportunities. These can't be quantified exactly. Investors must understand this inherent drawback for their decision-making.



DCF shouldn't necessarily be relied on exclusively even if solid estimates can be made. Companies and investors should consider other, known factors as well when sizing up an investment opportunity. In addition, comparable company analysis and precedent transactions are two other, common valuation methods that might be used.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


How Do You Calculate DCF?
Calculating the DCF involves three basic steps. One, forecast the expected cash flows from the investment. Two, select a discount rate, typically based on the cost of financing the investment or the opportunity cost presented by alternative investments. Three, discount the forecasted cash flows back to the present day, using a financial calculator, a spreadsheet, or a manual calculation.




What Is an Example of a DCF Calculation?
You have a discount rate of 10% and an investment opportunity that would produce $100 per year for the following three years. Your goal is to calculate the value today—the present value—of this stream of future cash flows.Since money in the future is worth less than money today, you reduce the present value of each of these cash flows by your 10% discount rate. Specifically, the first year’s cash flow is worth $90.91 today, the second year’s cash flow is worth $82.64 today, and the third year’s cash flow is worth $75.13 today. Adding up these three cash flows, you conclude that the DCF of the investment is $248.68.




Is Discounted Cash Flow the Same as Net Present Value (NPV)?
No, it's not, although the two concepts are closely related. NPV adds a fourth step to the DCF calculation process. After forecasting the expected cash flows, selecting a discount rate, discounting those cash flows, and totaling them, NPV then deducts the upfront cost of the investment from the DCF. For instance, if the cost of purchasing the investment in our above example were $200, then the NPV of that investment would be $248.68 minus $200, or $48.68.
What Is the Discounted Payback Period?  

The discounted payback period is a capital budgeting procedure used to determine the profitability of a project. A discounted payback period gives the number of years it takes to break even from undertaking the initial expenditure, by discounting future cash flows and recognizing the time value of money. The metric is used to evaluate the feasibility and profitability of a given project.



The more simplified payback period formula, which simply divides the total cash outlay for the project by the average annual cash flows, doesn't provide as accurate of an answer to the question of whether or not to take on a project because it assumes only one, upfront investment, and does not factor in the time value of money.





Key Takeaways

The discounted payback period is used as part of capital budgeting to determine which projects to take on.More accurate than the standard payback period calculation, the discounted payback period factors in the time value of money.The discounted payback period formula shows how long it will take to recoup an investment based on observing the present value of the project's projected cash flows.The shorter a discounted payback period is, means the sooner a project or investment will generate cash flows to cover the initial cost.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding the Discounted Payback Period  

When deciding on any project to embark on, a company or investor wants to know when their investment will pay off, meaning when the cash flows generated from the project will cover the cost of the project.



This is particularly useful because companies and investors usually have to choose between more than one project or investment, so being able to determine when certain projects will pay back compared to others makes the decision easier.



The basic method of the discounted payback period is taking the future estimated cash flows of a project and discounting them to the present value. This is compared to the initial outlay of capital for the investment.



The period of time that a project or investment takes for the present value of future cash flows to equal the initial cost provides an indication of when the project or investment will break even. The point after that is when cash flows will be above the initial cost.



The shorter a discounted payback period is means the sooner a project or investment will generate cash flows to cover the initial cost. A general rule to consider when using the discounted payback period is to accept projects that have a payback period that is shorter than the target timeframe.



A company can compare its required break-even date for a project to the point at which the project will break even according to the discounted cash flows used in the discounted payback period analysis, to approve or reject the project.


   Calculating the Discounted Payback Period  

To begin, the periodic cash flows of a project must be estimated and shown by each period in a table or spreadsheet. These cash flows are then reduced by their present value factor to reflect the discounting process. This can be done using the present value function and a table in a spreadsheet program.



Next, assuming the project starts with a large cash outflow, or investment to begin the project, the future discounted cash inflows are netted against the initial investment outflow. The discounted payback period process is applied to each additional period's cash inflow to find the point at which the inflows equal the outflows. At this point, the project's initial cost has been paid off, with the payback period being reduced to zero.


   Payback Period vs. Discounted Payback Period  

The payback period is the amount of time for a project to break even in cash collections using nominal dollars. Alternatively, the discounted payback period reflects the amount of time necessary to break even in a project, based not only on what cash flows occur but when they occur and the prevailing rate of return in the market.



These two calculations, although similar, may not return the same result due to the discounting of cash flows. For example, projects with higher cash flows toward the end of a project's life will experience greater discounting due to compound interest. For this reason, the payback period may return a positive figure, while the discounted payback period returns a negative figure.


   Example of the Discounted Payback Period  

Assume that Company A has a project requiring an initial cash outlay of $3,000. The project is expected to return $1,000 each period for the next five periods, and the appropriate discount rate is 4%. The discounted payback period calculation begins with the -$3,000 cash outlay in the starting period. The first period will experience a +$1,000 cash inflow.



Using the present value discount calculation, this figure is $1,000/1.04 = $961.54. Thus, after the first period, the project still requires $3,000 - $961.54 = $2,038.46 to break even. After the discounted cash flows of $1,000 / (1.04)2 = $924.56 in period two, and $1,000/(1.04)3 = $889.00 in period three, the net project balance is $3,000 - ($961.54 +$924.56 + $889.00) = $224.90.



Therefore, after receipt of the fourth payment, which is discounted to $854.80, the project will have a positive balance of $629.90. Therefore, the discounted payback period is sometime during the fourth period.
What Is Discounting?  

Discounting is the process of determining the present value of a payment or a stream of payments that is to be received in the future. Given the time value of money, a dollar is worth more today than it would be worth tomorrow. Discounting is the primary factor used in pricing a stream of tomorrow's cash flows.


   How Discounting Works  

For example, the coupon payments found in a regular bond are discounted by a certain interest rate and added together with the discounted par value to determine the bond's current value.



From a business perspective, an asset has no value unless it can produce cash flows in the future. Stocks pay dividends. Bonds pay interest, and projects provide investors with incremental future cash flows. The value of those future cash flows in today's terms is calculated by applying a discount factor to future cash flows.





Key Takeaways

Discounting is the process of determining the present value of a future payment or stream of payments.A dollar is always worth more today than it would be worth tomorrow, according to the concept of the time value of money.A higher discount indicates a greater the level of risk associated with an investment and its future cash flows.


   Time Value of Money and Discounting  

When a car is on sale for 10% off, it represents a discount to the price of the car. The same concept of discounting is used to value and price financial assets. For example, the discounted, or present value, is the value of the bond today. The future value is the value of the bond at some time in the future. The difference in value between the future and the present is created by discounting the future back to the present using a discount factor, which is a function of time and interest rates.



For example, a bond can have a par value of $1,000 and be priced at a 20% discount, which is $800. In other words, the investor can purchase the bond today for a discount and receive the full face value of the bond at maturity. The difference is the investor's return.






A larger discount results in a greater return, which is a function of risk.


   Discounting and Risk  

In general, a higher the discount means that there is a greater the level of risk associated with an investment and its future cash flows. Discounting is the primary factor used in pricing a stream of tomorrow's cash flows. For example, the cash flows of company earnings are discounted back at the cost of capital in the discounted cash flows model. In other words, future cash flows are discounted back at a rate equal to the cost of obtaining the funds required to finance the cash flows. A higher interest rate paid on debt also equates with a higher level of risk, which generates a higher discount and lowers the present value of the bond. Indeed, junk bonds are sold at a deep discount. Likewise, a higher the level of risk associated with a particular stock, represented as beta in the capital asset pricing model, means a higher discount, which lowers the present value of the stock.
What Does Discounts For Lack Of Marketability Mean?  

Discounts for lack of marketability (DLOM) refer to the method used to help calculate the value of closely held and restricted shares. The theory behind DLOM is that a valuation discount exists between a stock that is publicly traded and thus has a market, and the market for privately held stock, which often has little if any marketplace. 



Various methods have been used to quantify the discount that can be applied including the restricted stock method, IPO method, and the option pricing method.


   Understanding Discounts For Lack Of Marketability (DLOM)  

The restricted stock method purports that the only difference between a company's common stock and its restricted stock is the lack of marketability of the restricted stock. 



Subsequently, the price difference between both units should arise due to this lack of marketability. The IPO method relates to the price difference between shares that are sold pre-IPO and post-IPO. The percent difference between the two prices is considered the DLOM using this method. The option pricing method uses the option's price and the strike price of the option as the determinants of the DLOM. The option price as a percentage of the strike price is considered the DLOM under this method.



The consensus of many studies suggests that the DLOM ranges between 30% to 50%.


   Discounts For Lack Of Marketability Challenges  

Noncontrolling, nonmarketable ownership interests in closely held companies pose some unique challenges for valuation analysts. These issues often arise during gift tax, estate tax, generation-skipping transfer tax, income tax, property tax and other taxation disputes. To assist valuators in the field, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) offers some guidance, particularly around two related issues that further cloud analysis: Discount for Lack of Liquidity (DLOL) and Discount for Lack of Control (DLOC).



Without question, selling an interest in a privately held company is a more costly, uncertain and time-consuming process than liquidating a position in a publicly traded entity. An investment in which the owner can achieve liquidity in a timely fashion is worth more than an investment in which the owner cannot sell the investment quickly. As such, privately held companies should sell at a discount to actual intrinsic value because of additional costs, increased uncertainty and longer time horizons tied to selling unconventional securities.
What Is a Discouraged Worker?  

A discouraged worker is a person who is eligible for employment and can work, but who is currently unemployed and has not attempted to find employment in the last four weeks. Discouraged workers usually have given up on searching for a job because they found no suitable employment options or failed to secure a job when they applied.





Key Takeaways

Discouraged workers are workers who have stopped looking for work because they found no suitable employment options or failed to be shortlisted when applying for a job.The causes for worker discouragement are complex and varied.Discouraged workers are not included in the headline unemployment number. Instead, they are included in the U-4, U-5, and U-6 unemployment measures.The U-4 rate is calculated by dividing the sum of unemployed and discouraged workers by the total labor force, including discouraged workers. Policymakers use underutilization of labor rates, such as U-4, to create plans that help discouraged workers get back to work and incentivize companies for hiring them.


   Understanding Discouraged Workers  

The U.S. Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) defines discouraged workers as “those persons not in the labor force who want and are available for work, and who have looked for a job sometime in the prior 12 months, but were not counted as unemployed because they had not searched for work in the 4 weeks preceding the survey.” The BLS adds that “discouraged workers were not currently looking for work specifically because they believed no jobs were available for them or there were none for which they would qualify.”



As discouraged workers are no longer looking for employment, they are not counted as active in the labor force. This means that the headline unemployment rate, which is based solely on the active labor force number, does not take into account the number of discouraged workers in the country.


  Causes for Worker Discouragement  

The causes for worker discouragement are complex and varied. In some cases, workers fall out of the workforce because they are not equipped to deal with technological change in their workplace. An example of this occurred during the Great Recession, when the manufacturing sector shed senior staff unable to work on the new computer numeric control (CNC) machines, used for cutting wood and other hard materials, according to a report by The Washington Post.



Nick Eberstadt of the American Enterprise Institute (AEI) has blamed the “flight from work” on a lack of supply of skilled, able, and willing workers and an increasing reliance on disability insurance. His theory is backed by Alan Krueger’s 2016 research, which found that self-reported pain and disability insurance was higher among discouraged workers.



Other possible reasons for discouraged workers include restrictions that limit employment options for formerly incarcerated individuals and jobs that are perceived as being inaccessible to a specific gender.





386,000

The number of discouraged workers in the U.S. in June 2022, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).


   BLS Accounting for Discouraged Workers  

To better analyze unemployment in the U.S., the BLS created alternative measures for the underutilization of labor. U-4, U-5, and U-6 capture discouraged workers.



U-4 equals the total number of unemployed people, plus discouraged workers.U-5 equals the total number of unemployed people, discouraged workers, and other marginally attached workers.U-6 equals the total number of unemployed people, all marginally attached workers, plus people employed part-time who are seeking full-time employment.



From the third quarter of 2021 through the second quarter of 2022, the U-4 rate, seasonally adjusted, was 4.4%, just a shade higher than the headline, or official, unemployment rate of 3.6%.



In spite of the pandemic's impact on the economy, the current U-4 number is not as bad as the 2009 annual average, which stood at 9.7% in the throes of the Great Recession.


   Helping the Discouraged  

The U-4 rate helps to quantify how many discouraged workers exist and keep tabs on the change in their numbers. Further analysis of age groups, race, and geographic location is also made possible by U-4 measures.



Policymakers at federal, state, and local levels can use these numbers to formulate plans to assist them. Such plans may consist of training programs, education subsidies, or tax credits for companies that hire long-term unemployed individuals.




What are discouraged workers?
Discouraged workers are people who are eligible and able but not actively seeking work. Specifically, these workers have not tried to become gainfully employed in the last four weeks and have given up on searching for work typically because nothing is suitable.




How many discouraged workers are in the U.S.?
In June 2022, there were 364,000 discouraged workers in the U.S. This was a sharp decrease from June 2021, when there were 631,000 discouraged workers.




Why are discouraged workers not counted as unemployed?
An unemployed person is defined as someone who is able and eligible to work and has been actively looking for work in the last four weeks. Discouraged workers are able and eligible but not currently looking for work. More specifically, discouraged workers have not actively looked for work in the last four weeks; therefore, they are not counted as unemployed.
What Is Discrete Distribution?  

A discrete distribution is a probability distribution that depicts the occurrence of discrete (individually countable) outcomes, such as 1, 2, 3, yes, no, true, or false. The binomial distribution, for example, is a discrete distribution that evaluates the probability of a "yes" or "no" outcome occurring over a given number of trials, given the event's probability in each trial—such as flipping a coin one hundred times and having the outcome be "heads."



Statistical distributions can be either discrete or continuous. A continuous distribution is built from outcomes that fall on a continuum, such as all numbers greater than 0 (including numbers whose decimals continue indefinitely, such as pi = 3.14159265...). Overall, the concepts of discrete and continuous probability distributions and the random variables they describe are the underpinnings of probability theory and statistical analysis.





Key Takeaways

A discrete probability distribution counts occurrences that have countable or finite outcomes.Discrete distributions contrast with continuous distributions, where outcomes can fall anywhere on a continuum.Common examples of discrete distribution include the binomial, Poisson, and Bernoulli distributions.These distributions often involve statistical analyses of "counts" or "how many times" an event occurs.In finance, discrete distributions are used in options pricing and forecasting market shocks or recessions.


   Understanding Discrete Distribution  

Distribution is a statistical concept used in data research. Those seeking to identify the outcomes and probabilities of a particular study will chart measurable data points from a data set, resulting in a probability distribution diagram. Many probability distribution diagram shapes can result from a distribution study, such as the normal distribution ("bell curve").



Statisticians can identify the development of either a discrete or continuous distribution by the nature of the outcomes to be measured. Unlike the normal distribution, which is continuous and accounts for any possible outcome along the number line, a discrete distribution is constructed from data that can only follow a finite or discrete set of outcomes.



Discrete distributions thus represent data with a countable number of outcomes, meaning that the potential outcomes can be put into a list and then graphed. The list may be finite or infinite. For example, when determining the probability distribution of a die with six numbered sides, the list is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. If you're rolling two dice, the chances of rolling two sixes (12) or two ones (two) are much less than other combinations; on a graph, you'd see the probabilities of the two represented by the smallest bars on the chart.















A histogram of a binomial distribution.
C.K. Taylor


   Types of Discrete Probability Distributions  

The most common discrete probability distributions include binomial, Bernoulli, multinomial, and Poisson.


  Binomial  

A binomial probability distribution is one in which there is only a probability of two outcomes. In this distribution, data are collected in one of two forms after repetitive trials and classified into either success or failure. It generally has a finite set of just two possible outcomes, such as zero or one. For instance, flipping a coin gives you the list {Heads, Tails}.



The binomial distribution is used in options pricing models that rely on binomial trees. In a binomial tree model, the underlying asset can only be worth exactly one of two possible values—with the model, there are just two probable outcomes with each iteration—a move up or a move down with defined values.


  Bernoulli  

Bernoulli distributions are similar to binomial distributions because there are two possible outcomes. One trial is conducted, so the outcomes in a Bernoulli distribution are labeled as either a zero or one. A one indicates success, and a zero means failure—one trial is called a Bernoulli trial.



So, if you used one green marble (for success) and one red marble (for failure) in a covered bowl and chose without looking, you would record each result as a zero or one rather than success or failure for your sample. Bernoulli distributions are used to view the probability that an investment will succeed or fail.


  Multinomial  

Multinomial distributions occur when there is a probability of more than two outcomes with multiple counts. For instance, say you have a covered bowl with one green, one red, and one yellow marble. For your test, you record the number of times you randomly choose each of the marbles for your sample.






In finance and investing, these distributions estimate the probability that a specific set of financial events will occur.


  Poisson Distribution  

The Poisson distribution expresses the probability that a given number of events will occur over a fixed period.



The Poisson distribution is a discrete distribution that counts the frequency of occurrences as integers, whose list {0, 1, 2, ...} can be infinite. For instance, say you have a covered bowl with one red and one green marble, and your chosen period is two minutes. Your test is to record whether you pick the green or red marble, with the green indicating success. After each test, you place the marble back in the bowl and record the results.



In this model, the distribution would be plotting the results over a period of time, indicating how often green is chosen.



Poisson distribution is commonly used to model financial data where the tally is small and often zero. For example, it can be used to model the number of trades a typical investor will make in a given day, which can be 0 (often), 1, 2, and so on.


  Monte Carlo Simulation  

Discrete distributions can also be seen in the Monte Carlo simulation. A Monte Carlo simulation is a modeling technique that identifies the probabilities of different outcomes through programmed technology. It is primarily used to help forecast scenarios and identify risks.






In a Monte Carlo simulation, outcomes with discrete values will produce discrete distributions for analysis. These distributions determine risk and trade-offs among different items being considered.


   Calculation of Discrete Probability Distribution  

How you calculate a discrete probability distribution depends on your test, what you're trying to measure, and how you measure it. For instance, if you're flipping a coin twice, the possible combinations are:



Tails/tails (TT)Heads/tails (HT)Tails/heads (TH)Heads/heads (HH)



Because you're flipping the coin twice and there are two possible outcomes, there are four possibilities. Each of the results represents one-quarter of the possibilities. The HT and TH combinations are each one-quarter (and essentially the same thing), representing one-half of the results. Therefore, the probability is that one-quarter of the time, you'll get a TT or HH, and one-half of the time, you'll get HT or TH.



This works similarly for rolling two dice because the results of a dice roll are discrete. There are 36 possibilities because each die has six faces, but there cannot be a result of one since the lowest number on each die is one. So the lowest result you can get is two, and the highest is 12. Many of the combinations will repeat, just as in the coin example—so the more possibilities that repeat, the more instances will be graphed.



As seen in the table below, if you add the figures for dice roll results together, you have one instance where the result is two and one where it is 12—creating odds of one in 36 for the numbers two and 12.














Dice Pair Roll Outcomes




 
1
2
3 
4 
5 
6 


1
1,1
1,2 
1,3 
1,4 
1,5 
1,6 


2 
2,1 
2,2
2,3 
2,4 
2,5 
2,6 


3 
3,1 
3,2
3,3 
3,4 
3,5 
3,6 


4 
4,1 
4,2 
4,3 
4,4 
4,5 
4,6 


5 
5,1 
5,2 
5,3 
5,4 
5,5 
5,6 


6 
6,1 
 6,2
6,3 
6,4 
6,5 
6,6 






The probability (P) that X (the outcome) will equal x (the chosen number) would be:



P(X=2) = 1 / 36P(X=3) = 2 / 36P(X=4) = 3 /36P(X=5) = 4 / 36P(X=6) = 5 /36P(X=7) = 6 / 36P(X=8) = 5 / 36P(X=9) = 4 / 36P(X=10) = 3 / 36P(X=11) = 2 / 36P(X=12) = 1 / 36



The probability that the roll equals two is one in 36; the probability of it equalling three is two in 36, and so on.


  Investing Example  

In the binomial tree model below, the analyst has chosen intervals of three months with a starting price of $10. They have used past data from the investment to calculate the probability that the price will increase or decrease in the same way that the dice rolls were calculated.



In this image, the analyst worked out that the probability of the price rising to $12 is 1.03. The probability that the price will drop to $8 is 3.43. From each increase or decrease in price, you can see the analysts has worked out the discrete probabilities for nine months. At the end of nine months, you see that the probability of the stock price rising to $17.28 is zero, while the probability of it dropping to $7.68 is 4.32; the probability of it reaching $5.12 is 6.98. So, the stock is more likely to drop in price over the next nine months than it is to increase.















Binomial Tree Model for Options Pricing.
Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Discrete Distribution vs. Continous Distribution  

If a discrete distribution is one that graphs discrete variables, then a continuous distribution is one that graphs continuous variables. The difference can be seen on graphs, where discrete probability distributions are generally represented by bars because the data is discrete.



Continuous probability distributions generally appear as a curve or a line on a graph because the data under the line is continuous and not finite.




What Are the Types of Discrete Distribution?
The most common discrete distributions used by statisticians or analysts include the binomial, Poisson, Bernoulli, and multinomial distributions. Others include the negative binomial, geometric, and hypergeometric distributions.




What Are the 2 Requirements for a Discrete Probability Distribution?
The probabilities of random variables must have discrete (as opposed to continuous) values as outcomes. For a cumulative distribution, the probability of each discrete observation must be between 0 and​ 1; and the sum of the probabilities must equal one (100%).




How Do You Know If a Distribution Is Discrete?
The data are discrete if there are only a set array of possible outcomes (e.g., zero, one, or only integers).




What Is a Continuous Distribution?
Unlike a discrete distribution, a continuous probability distribution can contain outcomes that have any value, including indeterminant fractions. A normal distribution, for instance, is depicted by a bell-shaped curve with an uninterrupted line covering all values across its probability function.




What Is a Discrete Probability Model?
A discrete probability model is a statistical tool that takes data following a discrete distribution and tries to predict or model some outcome, such as an options contract price or how likely a market shock will be in the next five years.


   The Bottom Line  

Discrete probability distributions are graphs of the outcomes of test results that are finite, such as a value of 1, 2, 3, true, false, success, or failure. Investors use discrete probability distributions to estimate the chances that a particular investing outcome is more or less likely to happen. Armed with that information, they can choose a hedging strategy that matches the probabilities found in their analysis.
What is a Discretionary Account?  

A discretionary account is an investment account that allows an authorized broker to buy and sell securities without the client's consent for each trade. The client must sign a discretionary disclosure with the broker as documentation of the client's consent.



A discretionary account is sometimes referred to as a managed account; many brokerage houses require client minimums (such as $250,000) to be eligible for this service, and usually pay between 1 percent and 2 percent a year of assets under management (AUM) in fees.





Key Takeaways

A discretionary account is one in which clients hand over control of their trading account to brokers or advisors, who select and execute trades for them.﻿Clients can customize such accounts by specifying restrictions or preferences for investing style or themes. In recent times, robo-advisers have also become popular instruments for discretionary accounts. Advantages of discretionary accounts include quick execution of trades and expert services. Disadvantages of discretionary accounts include higher fees and the possibility of negative performance.


   Understanding Discretionary Accounts  

Depending on the specific agreement between investor and broker, the broker may have a varying degree of latitude with a discretionary account. The client may set parameters regarding trading in the account.



For example, a client might only permit investments in blue-chip stocks. An investor who favors socially responsible investing may forbid the broker from investing in tobacco company stock or in companies with poor environmental records. An investor might instruct the broker to maintain a specific ratio of stocks to bonds but permit the broker freedom to invest within these asset classes as the broker sees fit. A broker managing a discretionary account is beholden to the express instructions and constraints (if any) spelled out by the client.



A new type of discretionary account comes from robo-advisers - automated investment management services carried out by algorithms with minimal human intervention. Robo-advisers typically follow passive indexed strategies that follow modern portfolio theory (MPT), but may also be employed with user-instructed limitations such as to invest socially responsibly or to follow a specific investment strategy of their choice. Unlike traditional managed accounts, robo-advised accounts require very low minimum account balances (such as $5 or even $1) and charge very low fees (0.25 percent a year, or even no fee).


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Discretionary Accounts  

The first advantage of a discretionary account is convenience. Assuming that the client trusts the broker's advice, providing the broker latitude to execute trades at will saves the client the time it takes to communicate with the broker before each potential trade. For a client who trusts his broker but is hesitant to hand the reins over in full, this is where setting parameters and guidelines comes into play.



Most brokers handle trades for a multitude of clients. On occasion, the broker becomes aware of a specific buying or selling opportunity beneficial to all his clients. If the broker has to contact clients one at a time before executing the trade, the trading activity for the first few clients could affect the pricing for the clients at the end of the list. With discretionary accounts, the broker can execute a large block trade for all clients, so all his clients will receive the same pricing.



Handing over trading of your account to a portfolio manager has its own set of risks. The first one relates to fees. Typically, discretionary accounts are more expensive as compared to non-discretionary accounts because they employ the services of a manager to handle your trades and manage risk. Fund managers and advisors are bound by fiduciary rules that make it necessary for them to act in their client's best interests. They charge fees on a quarterly or annual basis.



The second risk relates to performance. A 2015 study by Asset Risk Consultant (Arc) found that approximately 50 percent of asset portfolios had underperformed the market and generated negative returns. Only 20 percent had positive returns, known as alpha, while the rest were neutral with respect to the market.


   Discretionary Account Setup  

The first step to setting up a discretionary account is finding a registered broker who offers this service. Depending on the brokerage house, an account minimum may be required to set up a discretionary account. For example, Fidelity offers three levels of managed accounts:  one with no minimum or a $25,000 minimum investment; and the other two require either a $50,000 minimum investment or $100,000 to $350,000 minimum investment.﻿﻿ The managed account levels with higher minimums offer broader menus of services and lower management fees.
What Is a Discretionary Expense?  

A discretionary expense is a cost that a business or household can survive without, if necessary. Discretionary expenses are often defined as nonessential spending. This means a business or household is still able to maintain itself even if all discretionary consumer spending stops.



Meals at restaurants and entertainment costs are examples of discretionary expenses.





Key Takeaways

A discretionary expense is a cost that is not essential for the operation of a home or a business.In a corporate environment, discretionary expenses are usually costs linked with improving a company’s reputation among its customers and employees.Tracking discretionary expenses enables businesses and households to identify where they can save money in times of financial difficulties.Discretionary expenses vary depending on the business or person.


   Understanding Discretionary Expenses  

Expenses are divided into several categories, namely non-discretionary and discretionary. While non-discretionary expenses are considered mandatory—housing, taxes, debt, and groceries—discretionary expenses are any costs incurred above and beyond what is deemed necessary. These are generally considered wants, while non-discretionary expenses are usually referred to as needs. As such, discretionary expenses rarely have anything to do with a business or household's day-to-day operations and, instead, have to do with lifestyle and choice.



Businesses and individuals pay for discretionary expenses with discretionary income—the amount of money left over after paying for housing, food, taxes, and other necessities. When times are good, people have more money to spend, and they normally do so on things they don't need, such as luxury items and other services—cars, vacations, restaurants, entertainment, electronics, etc.



When times get tougher and short-term cash flow issues emerge, managers and individuals will first look to weed out any unnecessary costs. Discretionary expenses are normally the first to go because stopping them is unlikely to have a major impact on a business or household.



In a corporate environment, discretionary expenses are usually costs linked with promoting or boosting a company’s standing in the market. Buying the raw materials used to produce goods is usually considered essential. Spending money on employee training programs is not usually considered essential. 



Individuals may also encounter moments when it is necessary to consider which of their expenses they can live without. For example, a person who runs into financial difficulties is more likely to prioritize paying utility bills over financing a vacation.


   Types of Discretionary Expenses  

As mentioned above, discretionary expenses are any costs that a consumer or business wants rather than needs. Some common discretionary items include:



Vacations and travel expensesAutomobilesAlcohol and tobaccoRestaurants and other entertainment-related expensesCoffee and specialty beveragesHobby and sports-related expenses, such as crafting, sewing, and gym memberships



It's important to point out again that what defines a discretionary expense depends on who's doing the buying. For instance, buying a new car may be considered a want for one person, but it may be considered essential for someone who has a long commute to work where driving is the only option.


   Discretionary Expenses vs. Non-Discretionary Expenses  

Expenses are divided into non-discretionary or discretionary costs. In other words, essential and non-essential expenses. Some expenses, such as vacation costs and luxury items, are not necessary to maintain a household and, thus, are classified as discretionary expenses.



In other words, the income-earner can pay for these goods or services at their own discretion. Certain expenses, though, must be paid to keep things running, such as housing costs, taxes, and health insurance for individuals and payroll, warehousing costs, and transport for businesses. These are considered essential expenses, as the income-earner must pay them on a regular basis or else suffer the consequences.






Ranking your discretionary expenses from least to most important can help you identify which costs you need to cut when times get tough.


   Special Considerations  

What constitutes a discretionary expense is subjective. As such, it may differ considerably among individuals and businesses. For example, a stable, well-established company could probably get away with slashing its advertising budget for a while if the need arises. A new company facing hardship, on the other hand, would probably need to make cutbacks elsewhere, being mindful that boosting exposure and getting its name out there is imperative to keeping the business afloat.



The same principle applies to individual consumers as well. Some people may only be able to afford a daily Starbucks run when things are going well. They may consider cutting out this expense when times are tough—or if they're saving up for a big expense, like a home or a car.


  Budgeting for Discretionary Expenses  

In tough economic times, it may be necessary for households and businesses to cut back on certain expenditures in response to decreases in income. That's why it's a good idea to track discretionary expenses separately from essential ones so that it is easy to see how costs can be reduced.



One helpful budgeting tactic is to rank discretionary expenses in order of importance from the least to most important. If a job loss or income reduction forces budget cuts, household members or a company's management team can easily identify the first discretionary expense to place on the chopping block.
What Is Discretionary Income?  

Discretionary income is the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing, or saving after paying taxes and paying for personal necessities, such as food, shelter, and clothing.



Discretionary income includes money spent on luxury items, vacations, and nonessential goods and services. Because discretionary income is the first to shrink amid a job loss or pay reduction, businesses that sell discretionary goods tend to suffer the most during economic downturns and recessions.





Key Takeaways

Discretionary income is money left over after a person pays their taxes and essential goods and services like housing and food.Nonessential items like vacations and luxury goods are usually paid for with funds from discretionary income.Disposable income and discretionary income are two different things.Disposable income is the net income of a person's take-home pay and is used to pay for all expenses (both essential and nonessentials).Discretionary income is used by economists to measure economic health.


   Understanding Discretionary Income  

Discretionary spending is an important part of a healthy economy. People only spend money on things like travel, movies, and consumer electronics if they have the funds to do so.



Some people use credit cards to purchase discretionary goods, but increasing personal debt is not the same as having a discretionary income.


   Discretionary Income vs. Disposable Income  

Discretionary income and disposable income are terms often used interchangeably, but they refer to different types of income.






Discretionary income is derived from disposable income, which equals gross income minus taxes.



Disposable income, in other words, is a person's take-home pay used to meet both essential and nonessential expenses. This income is what is left over after taxes and it is the amount of net income available to spend, save, or invest.



Discretionary income is what is leftover from disposable income after the income-earner pays for rent/mortgage, transportation, food, utilities, insurance, and other essential costs out of their disposable income.



For most consumers, discretionary income gets depleted first when a pay cut happens. An example is if a person makes $4,000 per month after taxes and has $2,000 in essential costs, they have $2,000 in monthly discretionary income.



If their paycheck gets cut to $3,000 per month, they can still meet their essential costs but only has $1,000 leftover in discretionary income.


   Discretionary Income and the Economy  

Discretionary income is an important marker of economic health. Economists use it, along with disposable income, to derive other important economic ratios, such as the marginal propensity to consume (MPC), marginal propensity to save (MPS), and consumer leverage ratios.



In 2005, in the midst of a debt-fueled economic bubble, the U.S. personal savings rate went negative for four consecutive months. After paying for necessary expenses out of disposable income, the average consumer spent all of their discretionary income and then some, using credit cards and other debt instruments to make additional discretionary purchases beyond what they could afford. In 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic and the widespread lockdowns that resulted, the personal savings rate reached all-time highs in the U.S. of more than 30% for several months. From the end of 2021 into 2022, the rate has moderated to around 7%, more in line with the long-term average.



Aggregate discretionary income levels for an economy fluctuate over time, typically in line with business cycle activity. When economic output is strong, as measured by the gross domestic product (GDP) or another gross measure, discretionary income levels tend to be high as well. If inflation occurs in the price of life's necessities, then discretionary income falls, assuming that wages and taxes remain relatively constant.




How Is Discretionary Income Calculated?
Discretionary income is a subset of disposable income, or part of all the income left over after you pay taxes. From disposable income, deduct all necessities and obligations like rent or mortgage, utilities, loans, car payments, and food, etc.. Once you've paid all of those items, whatever is left to save, spend, or invest is your discretionary income.




What Is Considered a Good Level of Discretionary Income?
This is somewhat a matter of lifestyle; however, many experts agree that around 10-30% of your take-home (after-tax) pay should consist of discretionary income. The so-called 50-20-30 rule suggests that 50% of your net income goes towards living expenses, 20% to savings or investments, and 30% to discretionary spending.




How Is Discretionary Income Looked at for Student Loans?
If you are looking at federal student loans or student loan repayment plans, the U.S. government will calculate your eligibility based on discretionary income. However, the government defines discretionary income as your annual gross after-tax income less than 150% of the federal poverty line (which will depend on your state and family size) and takes into account any subsequent rise or fall in your income.
What Is Discretionary Investment Management?  

Discretionary investment management is a form of investment management in which buy and sell decisions are made by a portfolio manager or investment counselor for the client's account. The term "discretionary" refers to the fact that investment decisions are made at the portfolio manager's discretion. This means that the client must have the utmost trust in the investment manager's capabilities.



Discretionary investment management can only be offered by individuals who have extensive experience in the investment industry and advanced educational credentials, with many investment managers possessing one or more professional designations such as Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA), Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst (CAIA), Chartered Market Technician (CMT) or Financial Risk Manager (FRM).


   Understanding Discretionary Investment Management  

Services and transactions under discretionary investment management are tailored to high-net-worth individuals (HNWI) and institutional investors, such as pension funds, since discretionary accounts have higher minimum investment requirements, often starting at $250,000.



The investment manager's strategy may involve purchasing a variety of securities in the market, as long as it falls in line within the client's risk profile and financial goals. For example, discretionary investment managers can purchase securities such as stocks, bonds, ETFs and financial derivatives.


   How Discretionary Investment Management Works  

Discretionary investment managers demonstrate their strategies using a systematic approach that makes it easier to report results and for investment strategies to be exercised in a specific way. Investments are not customized or tailored to a client; rather, investments are made according to clients' strategies. In other words, clients are grouped according to their highlighted goals and risk tolerance. Each group will then have the same investment portfolio created from the pool of money deposited by the clients. The actual client account is segregated and the funds invested are weighted to the individuals' capital investments.



For example, consider a portfolio with an initial capital of $10 million. A high-net-worth individual that contributed $1 million will be said to have a 10% investment in the portfolio, while another that contributed $300,000 will have a 3% investment in the portfolio.


   Benefits of Discretionary Management  

Discretionary investment management offers several benefits to clients. It frees clients from the burden of making day-to-day investment decisions, which can arguably be better made by a qualified portfolio manager who is attuned to the vagaries of the market. Delegating the investing process to a competent manager leaves the client free to focus on other things that matter.



Discretionary investment management also aligns the investment manager's interest with that of the client, since managers typically charge a percentage of the assets under administration as their management fee. Thus if the portfolio grows under the investment manager's stewardship, the manager is compensated by receiving a higher dollar amount as the management fee. This reduces the adviser's temptation to "churn" the account to generate more commissions, which is a major flaw of the transaction-based investment model.



Discretionary investment management may also ensure that the client has access to better investment opportunities through the portfolio manager. The client may also receive better prices for executed trades, as the portfolio manager can put through a single buy or sell order for multiple clients. For clients in discretionary accounts, portfolio managers can act on available information quickly and efficiently, selling the position out of all their accounts in a single, cost-effective transaction. Likewise, the portfolio manager is better positioned to seize buying opportunities when the markets dip and a good quality stock temporarily drops in value.


   Risks of Discretionary Management  

On the downside, the minimum account balance and high fees can be a big hindrance to many investors, especially those just starting out. A new investor with a small amount to invest would not be able to benefit from this style of investment.



From the client's point of view, there must be confidence in the portfolio manager's competence, integrity, and trustworthiness. It is therefore incumbent upon clients to conduct adequate due diligence on potential portfolio managers before entrusting them with their life savings. There is a risk of entrusting money to a portfolio manager who is either unscrupulous or pays little heed to a client's stated goals.
What Are Diseconomies of Scale?  

Diseconomies of scale happen when a company or business grows so large that the costs per unit increase. It takes place when economies of scale no longer function for a firm. With this principle, rather than experiencing continued decreasing costs and increasing output, a firm sees an increase in costs when output is increased.





Key Takeaways

Diseconomies of scale occur when the expansion of output comes with increasing average unit costs.Diseconomies of scale can involve factors internal to an operation or external conditions beyond a firm's control.Diseconomies of scale may result from technical issues in a production process, organizational management issues, or resource constraints on productive inputs.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Diseconomies of Scale  

The diagram below illustrates a diseconomy of scale. At point Q*, this firm is producing at the point of lowest average unit cost. If the firm produces more or less output, then the average cost per unit will be higher. To the left of Q*, the firm can reap the benefit of economies of scale to decrease average costs by producing more. To the right of Q*, the firm experiences diseconomies of scale and an increasing average unit cost.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   Special Considerations  

Diseconomies of scale specifically come about due to several reasons, but all can be broadly categorized as internal or external. Internal diseconomies of scale can arise from technical issues of production or organizational issues within the structure of a firm or industry.



External diseconomies of scale can arise due to constraints imposed by the environment within which a firm or industry operates. Essentially, diseconomies of scale are the result of the growing pains of a company after it's already realized the cost-reducing benefits of economies of scale.



The first is a situation of overcrowding, where employees and machines get in each other's way, lowering operational efficiencies. The second situation arises when there is a higher level of operational waste, due to a lack of proper coordination. The third reason for diseconomies of scale happens when there is a mismatch in the optimum level of outputs within different operations.


   Types of Diseconomies of Scale  

Internal diseconomies of scale involve either technical constraints on the production process that the firm uses or organizational issues that increase costs or waste resources without any change to the physical production process.


  Technical Diseconomies of Scale  

Technical diseconomies of scale involve physical limits on handling and combining inputs and goods in process. These can include overcrowding and mismatches between the feasible scale or speed of different inputs and processes.






Diseconomies of scale can occur for a variety of reasons, but the cause often comes from the difficulty of managing an increasingly large workforce.



An overcrowding effect within an organization is often the leading cause of diseconomies of scale. This happens when a company grows too quickly, thinking that it can achieve economies of scale in perpetuity. If, for example, a company can reduce the per-unit cost of its product each time it adds a machine to its warehouse, it might think that maxing out the number of machines is a great way to reduce costs.



However, if it takes one person to operate a machine, and 50 machines are added to the warehouse, there is a good chance that these 50 additional employees will get in each other's way and make it harder to produce the same level of output per hour. This increases costs and decreases output.



Sometimes, diseconomies of scale happen within an organization when a company's plant cannot produce the same quantity of output as another related plant. For example, if a product is made up of two components, gadget A and gadget B, diseconomies of scale might occur if gadget B is produced at a slower rate than gadget A. This forces the company to slow the production rate of gadget A, increasing its per-unit cost.


  Organizational Diseconomies of Scale  

Organizational diseconomies of scale can happen for many reasons, but overall, they arise because of the difficulties of managing a larger workforce. Several problems can be identified with diseconomies of scale.



First, communication becomes less effective. As a business expands, communication between different departments becomes more difficult. Employees may not have explicit instructions or expectations from management. In some instances, written communication becomes more prevalent over face-to-face meetings, which can lead to less feedback.



Another drawback to diseconomies of scale is motivation. Larger businesses can isolate employees and make them feel less appreciated, which can result in a drop in productivity. 


  External Diseconomies of Scale  

External diseconomies of scale can result from constraints of economic resources or other constraints imposed on a firm or industry by the external environment within which it operates. Typically, these include capacity constraints on common resources and public goods or increasing input costs due to price inelasticity of supply for inputs.



External capacity constraints can arise when a common pool resource or local public good cannot sustain the demands placed on it by increased production. Congestion on public highways and other transportation needed to ship a firm's products is an example of this type of diseconomy of scale.



As output increases, the logistical costs of transporting goods to distant markets can increase enough to offset any economies of scale. A similar example is the depletion of a critical natural resource below its ability to reproduce itself in a tragedy of the commons scenario. As the resource becomes ever more scarce and ultimately runs out, the cost to obtain it increases dramatically.



Price inelasticity of supply for key inputs traded on a market is a related cause of diseconomies of scale. In this case, if a firm attempts to increase output, it will need to purchase more inputs, but price inelastic inputs will mean rapidly increasing input costs out of proportion to the increase in the amount of output realized.
What Is Disequilibrium?  

Disequilibrium is a situation where internal and/or external forces prevent market equilibrium from being reached or cause the market to fall out of balance. This can be a short-term byproduct of a change in variable factors or a result of long-term structural imbalances.



Disequilibrium is also used to describe a deficit or surplus in a country’s balance of payments.





Key Takeaways

Disequilibrium is when external forces cause a disruption in a market's supply and demand equilibrium. In response, the market enters a state during which supply and demand are mismatched.Disequilibrium is caused due to several reasons, from government intervention to labor market inefficiencies and unilateral action by a supplier or distributor.Disequilibrium is generally resolved by the market entering into a new state of equilibrium.For instance, people are incentivized to start producing more overpriced goods, increasing the supply to meet demand and lowering the price back to its equilibrium.Examples can include short-term scenarios like flash crashes to long-term events like recessions and depressions.


   Understanding Disequilibrium  

Sometimes, certain forces bring about a movement in the price of a commodity or service. When this happens the proportion of goods supplied to the proportion demanded becomes imbalanced, and the market for the product is said to be in a state of disequilibrium. This theory was originally put forth by economist John Maynard Keynes.



Many modern economists have likened using the term "general disequilibrium" to describe the state of the markets as we most often find them. Keynes noted that markets will most often be in some form of disequilibrium—there are so many variable factors that affect financial markets today that true equilibrium is more of an idea.



A market in equilibrium is said to be operating efficiently as its quantity supplied equals its quantity demanded at an equilibrium price or a market-clearing price. In an equilibrium market, there are neither surpluses nor shortages for a good or service. Equilibrium is thus the state in which market supply and demand balance each other; and as a result, prices become stable.



Generally, an over-supply of goods or services causes prices to go down, which results in higher demand—while an under-supply or shortage causes prices to go up resulting in less demand. The balancing effect of supply and demand results in a state of equilibrium. Disequilibrium occurs when this adjustment of supply, demand, and/or prices does not work as theorized.






Market forces tend to restore disequilibrium states back to their equilibrium. This is because people stand to profit from buying underpriced assets and selling overpriced ones, leading arbitrageurs to push supply and demand back into balance.


   Disequilibrium in Action  

Below is a hypothetical graph depicting supply and demand in the market for wheat. As the graph shows, the price at Pe is the single price that incentivizes both farmers (or suppliers) and consumers to engage in an exchange. At Pe, there is a balance in the supply and demand for wheat.















Figure 1.
Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019​Owner



Following our graph for the wheat market, if prices increased to P2, suppliers will be willing to provide more wheat from their storage barns to sell in the market, since the higher price would cover their production costs and lead to higher profits. However, consumers may reduce the quantity of wheat that they purchase, given the higher price in the market. When this imbalance occurs, the quantity supplied will be greater than the quantity demanded, and a surplus will exist, causing a disequilibrium market.



The surplus in the graph is represented by the difference between Q2 and Q1, where Q2 is the quantity supplied and Q1 is the quantity demanded. Given the excess commodity supplied, suppliers will want to quickly sell the wheat before it gets rancid and will proceed to reduce the sales price. Economic theory suggests that in a free market, the market price for wheat will eventually fall to Pe if the market is left to function without any interference. 



What if the market price for wheat was P1 . At this price, consumers are willing to purchase more wheat (Q2) at a lower price. On the other hand, since the price is below the equilibrium price, suppliers will provide a smaller amount of wheat (Q1) to sell as the price may be too low to cover their marginal costs of production. In this case, when Pe falls to P1, there will be a shortage of wheat as the quantity demanded exceeds the quantity supplied for the commodity.



Since resources are not allocated efficiently, the market is said to be in disequilibrium. In a free market, it is expected that the price would increase to the equilibrium price as the scarcity of the good forces the price to go up.


   Reasons for Disequilibrium  

There are a number of reasons for market disequilibrium. Sometimes, disequilibrium occurs when a supplier sets a fixed price for a good or service for a certain time period. During this period of sticky prices, if the quantity demanded increases in the market for the good or service, there will be a shortage of supply.



Another reason for disequilibrium is government intervention. If the government sets a floor or ceiling for a good or service, the market may become inefficient if the quantity supplied is disproportionate to the quantity demanded. For example, if the government sets a price ceiling on rent, landlords may be reluctant to rent out their extra property to tenants, and there will be excess demand for housing due to the shortage of rental property.



From the standpoint of the economy, disequilibrium can occur in the labor market. A labor market disequilibrium can occur when the government sets a minimum wage, that is, a price floor on the wage that an employer can pay its employees. If the stipulated price floor is higher than the labor equilibrium price, there will be an excess supply of labor in the economy.



When a country’s current account is at a deficit or surplus, its balance of payments (BOP) is said to be in disequilibrium. A country’s balance of payments is a record of all transactions conducted with other countries during a given time period. Its imports and exports of goods are recorded under the Current Account section of the BOP. A significant deficit on the current account where imports are greater than exports would result in disequilibrium.



The US, UK, and Canada have large current account deficits. Likewise, when exports are greater than imports, creating a current account surplus, there is a disequilibrium. China, Germany, and Japan have large current account surpluses.



A balance of payments disequilibrium can occur when there is an imbalance between domestic savings and domestic investments. A deficit in the current account balance will result if domestic investments is higher than domestic savings since the excess investments will be financed with capital from foreign sources. In addition, when the trade agreement between two countries affects the level of import or export activities, a balance of payments disequilibrium will surface.



Furthermore, changes in an exchange rate when a country’s currency is revalued or devalued can cause disequilibrium. Other factors that could lead to disequilibrium include inflation or deflation, changes in the foreign exchange reserves, population growth, and political instability.


   How Is Disequilibrium Resolved?  

Disequilibrium is a result of a mismatch between the market forces of supply and demand. The mismatch is generally resolved through market forces or government intervention.



In the example of the labor market shortage above, the excess labor supply situation can be corrected either through policy proposals that address unemployed workers or through a process of investment in training workers to make them fit for new jobs. Within a market, innovations in manufacturing or supply chain, or technology can help address imbalances between supply and demand.



For example, suppose the demand for a company's product has receded due to its expensive price. The company can regain its share of the market by innovating its manufacturing or supply chain processes for a lower product price. The new equilibrium, however, might be one where the company has a greater supply of its product in the market at a lower price.


   Real-World Example  

Disequilibrium can happen relatively quickly in an otherwise stable market or can be a systematic characteristic of certain markets. As an example of the former, flash crashes are examples of market disequilibrium involving a mass of sequential sell orders that clear all bids, causing prices to fall dramatically in a rapid, downward spiral, made worse by algorithmic trading systems that detect the selloff and introduce new automated sell orders.



The first prominent flash crash occurred shortly after 2:30 p.m. EST on May 6, 2010, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell more than 1,000 points in just under 10 minutes, the biggest drop in history at that point. Within the hour, the Dow Jones index lost almost 9% of its value. Over one trillion dollars in equity was evaporated, although the market regained 70% by the end of the day. 



Initial reports claiming that the crash was caused by a mistyped order proved to be erroneous, and the causes of the flash were attributed to a U.K. futures trader, who later pled guilty for attempting to "spoof the market" by quickly buying and selling hundreds of E-mini S&P Futures contracts through the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). According to an investigative report by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Flash Crash of 2010 was triggered by a single order selling a large amount of E-mini S&P contracts that created an unstable disequilibrium.


   Disequilibrium FAQs  
  What Happens When Disequilibrium Occurs?  

When market equilibrium remains out of balance for a period of time, prices can become overly depressed or inflated, which can have real negative ramifications on markets and the broader economy. Market actors will be incentivized to try and restore equilibrium by buying and bidding up underprices goods or securities and selling or producing more of the overpriced ones.


  What Causes Disequilibrium?  

Disequilibrium is often caused by an imbalance in supply vs. demand. At times disequilibrium can spill over from one market to another—for instance, if there aren’t enough transport companies or resources available to ship coffee internationally then the coffee supply for certain regions could be reduced, affecting the equilibrium of coffee markets. Economists view many labor markets as being in disequilibrium due to how legislation and public policy protect people and their jobs, or the amount they are compensated for their labor.


  How Can Disequilibrium Be Prevented?  

Removing market frictions, trade barriers, certain regulations, and improving market efficiency and information dissemination can all help maintain equilibrium.
What Is Disguised Unemployment?  

Disguised unemployment exists when part of the labor force is either left without work or is working in a redundant manner such that worker productivity is essentially zero. It is unemployment that does not affect aggregate output. An economy demonstrates disguised unemployment when productivity is low and too many workers are filling too few jobs.





Key Takeaways

Disguised unemployment is unemployment that does not affect aggregate economic output.It occurs when productivity is low and too many workers are filling too few jobs.It can refer to any part of the population that is not employed at full capacity.


   Understanding Disguised Unemployment  

Disguised unemployment exists frequently in developing countries whose large populations create a surplus in the labor force. It can be characterized by low productivity and frequently accompanies informal labor markets and agricultural labor markets, which can absorb substantial quantities of labor.



Disguised, or hidden, unemployment can refer to any segment of the population not employed at full capacity, but it is often not counted in official unemployment statistics within the national economy. This can include those working well below their capabilities, those whose positions provide little overall value in terms of productivity, or any group that is not currently looking for work but is able to perform work of value.



Another way to think about disguised unemployment is to say that people are employed but not in a very efficient way. They have skills that are being left on the table, are working jobs that do not fit their skills (possibly due to an inefficiency in the market that fails to recognize their skills), or are working but not as much as they would like.






There are varying types of disguised unemployment, including people working jobs beneath their skill set, unutilized workers who are ill or disabled but still able to be productive, and job seekers who are demoralized by their inability to find work and so stop looking for it.


   Types of Disguised Unemployment  
  Underemployment  

In certain circumstances people doing part-time work may qualify as disguised unemployment if they desire to obtain and are capable of performing full-time work. It also includes those accepting employment well below their skill set. In these cases disguised unemployment may also be referred to as “underemployment,” covering those who are working in some capacity but not at their full capacity.



For example, a person with a master of business administration (MBA) accepting a full-time cashier position due to the inability to find work in their field may be considered underemployed, as the person is working below their skill set. Additionally, a person working part time in their field who wants to work full time may also qualify as underemployed.


   Illness and Disability  

Another group that may be included is those who are ill or considered partially disabled. While they may not be actively working, they may be capable of being productive within the economy. This form of disguised unemployment is temporary in the case of illness and categorized when someone is receiving disability assistance. This means the person is often not considered part of the unemployment statistics for a nation.


   No Longer Looking for Work  

Once a person stops looking for work, regardless of the reason, they are often no longer considered unemployed when it comes to calculating the unemployment rate. Many nations require a person to be actively seeking employment to be counted as unemployed. If a person gives up looking for employment, whether on a short- or long-term basis, they are no longer counted until resuming the pursuit of employment options. This can count as disguised unemployment when the person wants to find work but has stopped looking due to being demoralized by a long search.
What Is Disinflation?  

Disinflation is a temporary slowing of the pace of price inflation and is used to describe instances when the inflation rate has reduced marginally over the short term.





Key Takeaways

Disinflation is a temporary slowing of the pace of price inflation. The term is used to describe occasions when the inflation rate has reduced marginally over the short term.Unlike inflation and deflation, which refer to the direction of prices, disinflation refers to the rate of change in the rate of inflation.A healthy amount of disinflation is necessary since it prevents the economy from overheating.The danger that disinflation presents is when the rate of inflation falls near to zero, as it did in 2015, raising the specter of deflation.Disinflation has reemerged in 2023 after inflation reached its highest levels in four decades last year.


   Understanding Disinflation  

Disinflation is commonly used by the Federal Reserve (Fed) to describe a period of slowing inflation. It should not be confused with deflation, which can be harmful to the economy. Unlike inflation and deflation, which refer to the direction of prices, disinflation refers to the rate of change in the rate of inflation.



Disinflation is not considered problematic because prices do not actually drop, and disinflation does not usually signal the onset of a slowing economy. Deflation is represented as a negative growth rate, such as -1%, while disinflation is shown as a change in the inflation rate—say, from 3% one year to 2% the next. Disinflation is considered the opposite of reflation, which occurs when a government stimulates an economy by increasing the money supply.



A healthy amount of disinflation is necessary since it represents economic contraction and prevents the economy from overheating. As such, instances of disinflation are not uncommon and are viewed as normal during healthy economic times. Disinflation benefits certain segments of a population, such as people who are inclined to save their earnings.


   Disinflation Triggers  

Several things can cause an economy to experience disinflation. If a central bank decides to impose a tighter monetary policy and the government starts to sell off some of its securities, it could reduce the supply of money in the economy, causing a disinflationary effect.



Similarly, a contraction in the business cycle or a recession can also trigger disinflation. For example, businesses may choose not to increase prices to gain greater market share, leading to disinflation.


   Disinflation Since 1980  

The U.S. economy experienced one of its longest periods of disinflation from 1980 through 2015.



During the 1970s, the rapid rise of inflation came to be known as the Great Inflation, with prices increasing more than 110% during the decade. The annual rate of inflation topped out at 14.76% in early 1980.



Following the implementation of aggressive monetary policies by the Fed to reduce inflation, the increase in prices slowed in the 1980s, rising just 59% for the period. In the 1990s, prices rose 32%, followed by a 27% increase from 2000 to 2009 and a 9% increase from 2010 to 2015.



During this period of disinflation, stocks performed well, averaging 8.65% in real returns from 1982 through 2015. Disinflation also allowed the Fed to lower interest rates in the 2000s, which led to bonds generating above-average returns.



Here is the danger that disinflation presents: When the rate of inflation falls near to zero, as it did in 2015, it raises the specter of deflation. Although the rate of inflation was near zero in 2015, concerns over deflation were dismissed because it was largely attributed to falling energy prices. As energy prices recovered in the period from 2016 to 2020, the rate of inflation picked up somewhat, averaging 1.8% during that period—moderated in 2020 by the COVID-19 pandemic.


   Disinflation Returns  

Disinflation has reappeared in 2023, following inflation jumping to its highest level in four decades last year. Since the Consumer Price Index (CPI) peaked at 9.1% in June 2022, the closely watched metric, which measures the overall change in consumer prices, has retreated. However, inflation still sits at historically high levels, well above the Federal Reserve’s target of 2%. 



A Boston University research paper published in the mid-2000s, examining a sustained period of disinflation in the early 1980s under then-Fed chair Paul Volcker, provides perhaps the best indication of how the economy will perform in 2023 under similar conditions to those years.



When Volcker assumed his position in mid-1979, he aggressively lifted the federal funds rate to tackle rampant inflation, which sat at 9%. In the following years, the economy cooled substantially, experiencing two recessions from 1980 to 1983, with unemployment climbing to 10.8% by the end of 1982. Current chairman Jerome Powell has lifted interest rates over the past 12 months at the fastest rate since Volcker to tame inflation, indicating a possible economic downturn if history repeats after a period of hawkish monetary policy.






The federal funds rate increased from 0.25% in March 2022 to 4.5% in December 2022—the fastest interest rate increase since the Volcker era.




How Is Disinflation Different from Deflation?
The key difference between disinflation and deflation is that the former is always positive but decreasing, while the latter is always negative.




What Causes Disinflation?
Disinflation is usually caused by contractionary monetary policy—e.g., rising interest rates. It can also arise from increases in productivity and technology.




What Happens to the Economy During Periods of Disinflation?
Past periods of disinflation have caused recessions/economic slowdowns that resulted in higher unemployment and lower corporate earnings.




What Happened to the Economy During the Last Period of Disinflation?
Academic research shows that the economy suffered two recessions and higher unemployment during the last sustained period of disinflation, in the early 1980s.


   The Bottom Line  

Disinflation refers to a slowing in the rate of inflation, typically when it eases over the short term. Proponents of disinflation argue that it’s necessary to prevent the economy from overheating, while opponents say that it can lead to a downturn or cause deflation, as it represents economic contraction.



Disinflation typically arises from a reduction in the money supply that results from rising interest rates, but it can also come about by productivity advancements or companies raising prices at a slower pace during a contracting business cycle. A period of disinflation in the early 1980s indicates the economy may contract over the next few years if history repeats.
What Is Disintermediation?  

The term disintermediation refers to the process of cutting out the financial intermediary in a transaction. It may allow a consumer to buy directly from a wholesaler rather than through an intermediary such as a retailer, or enable a business to order directly from a manufacturer rather than from a distributor. In the financial industry, it is seen when an investor is able to buy stock directly rather than through a broker or a financial institution. The purpose of disintermediation is usually to cut costs, speed up delivery, or both.





Key Takeaways

Disintermediation is the process of cutting out one or more middlemen from a transaction, supply chain, or decision-making process.The usual reasons for disintermediation are to reduce costs or increase delivery speed.In financial terms, disintermediation involves the removal of banks, brokers, or other third parties, allowing individuals to transact or invest directly.Cryptocurrencies are disintermediating the financial sector and government from monetary transactions.The process doesn't always work because it requires additional staffing and other resources to replace the services supplied by an intermediary.


   Understanding Disintermediation  

Disintermediation is used across various industries and is able to lower the overall cost of completing a transaction. Removing the intermediary may also allow a transaction to be completed more quickly. It is now a pillar of the internet model, where it is often called the business-to-consumer (B2C) model.



It can occur when a wholesale purchase allows an interested buyer to purchase goods, sometimes in large quantities, directly from the producer. This can result in lower prices for the buyer because the intermediary, such as a traditional retail store, is removed from the purchasing process. This saves the buyer the cost of the markup that is associated with the transition of a product from a wholesaler to a retailer before it reaches a buyer.



The concept originated in the financial industry, allowing investors to buy financial products directly without an intermediary, such as a broker or a bank. The government placed a limit on bank interest rates for federally insured accounts in 1967, so consumers began taking their money out of savings accounts in order to find better returns by directly investing in bonds or stocks.






Not all companies offer wholesale options directly to customers, as it requires a substantial investment in resources to fulfill and ship these orders.


   Special Considerations  

Intermediaries often play a valuable part in the process of getting a product from the production line to the consumer. A producer has a network of wholesalers who preorder their products and ship them for distribution. They employ sales representatives to score orders for products from retailers. A retail store is needed to showcase the products properly, get the customers through the doors, and make the sales. All of these roles must be duplicated by the producer who wants to cut out the middlemen.



Disintermediation is inevitably associated with an increased burden on the company using the strategy. The company must dedicate more internal resources to cover the services that were previously handled by an intermediary.



Shipping costs, in particular, can be more expensive for a company that deals directly with the buyer. Specialized shipping companies have economies of scale that can substantially reduce their customers' shipping and handling costs.


   Disintermediation and the Internet  

The internet can be a powerful tool for disintermediation. Consumers and small businesses can theoretically place orders directly with the producers of products. In practice, new intermediaries such as Amazon, Etsy, and eBay have emerged as electronic middlemen. Even apps are sold through a third party such as Google Play or Apple's App Store.


  Disintermediation at Work  

The rise of online intermediaries may have been inevitable. Few producers can devote the resources to developing a retail platform and interface that could rival those of Amazon, eBay, or Etsy, and fewer still have the means to develop a professional marketing plan to promote their products.



Still, some products have been able to skip at least one intermediary—the retailer. Electronics manufacturers such as Apple, Google, and HP are prime examples. Cosmetics brands, once sold only in department stores, now sell directly to consumers via their websites. Many small local businesses thrive by promoting their wares on their own websites and on social media.



Many of these products are also available on retailers' sites.


  Niche Disintermediation  

Other internet giants took on disintermediation in specific niches. Google's AdSense platform transformed the marketing and advertising industry, allowing businesses to directly control their own messaging. Meta (formerly Facebook) gives local businesses a social media platform to communicate directly with customers and promote their products.



This potential was realized to some extent, particularly by small independent businesses and website operators. But online marketing specialists soon emerged to manage the message for businesses eager to outsource the work. This process is sometimes called reintermediation.


   Cryptocurrencies and Disintermediation  

The strategy of disintermediation is key to the development of decentralized cryptocurrencies that rely on blockchain technology, such as Bitcoin. One feature of these systems is that users transact on a peer-to-peer (P2P) basis directly with one another, without having a bank or a monetary authority facilitate or validate the transactions.



Instead of relying on a trusted third party, blockchain systems employ a distributed consensus mechanism such as proof of work (PoW) or proof of stake (PoS). These mechanisms rely on cryptographic functions and algorithmic processing to maintain security and fidelity.






Disintermediation is a critical component of the cryptocurrency business. Banks and governments are cut out. Transactions are peer to peer.


   Example of Disintermediation  

The travel industry has been transformed by disintermediation, mostly through the internet.



The process began when American Airlines introduced direct flight bookings on its Sabre Global Distribution System (now Travelocity) and made the service available on early online sites including PRODIGY and CompuServe.



The travel agent now has to struggle to compete for consumers who can book hotel rooms, cruises, rental cars, and flights directly from the providers or through a travel site that allows them to compare an exhaustive list of options.



Online travel booking is not, however, a perfect example of disintermediation. A site such as Expedia is essentially an intermediary. It buys hotel bookings in bulk at a discount and resells them to consumers, earning revenues on the markup.




How Do Consumers Benefit From Disintermediation?
In theory, consumers get a better price for a product when a step in its supply chain is eliminated. In practice, steps in the supply chain that are necessary still have to be done by someone. Businesses and their customers benefit from disintermediation if the necessary tasks can be done as efficiently and more cheaply without the services of an intermediary.




When Does Disintermediation Occur?
Disintermediation occurs whenever a step in the supply chain is eliminated. A consumer calls a hotel directly to make a reservation rather than booking through a website or a travel agent. A retailer orders directly from a manufacturer rather than a sales representative for a distributor.Or, on a vastly larger scale, Amazon builds up its shipping network in order to deliver directly to consumers rather than relying on FedEx or UPS.




What Is Disintermediation in Ecommerce?
From its beginnings, the internet has been seen as an ideal platform for disintermediation. It has the potential to remove the intermediary and allow consumers and businesses to deal directly with producers and wholesalers. But it hasn't quite worked out that way. Most consumers most of the time go to new intermediaries such as Amazon in order to get a broad array of choices, customer service, and fast delivery all in one place.
What Is Disinvestment?  

Disinvestment is the action of an organization or government selling or liquidating an asset or subsidiary. Absent the sale of an asset, disinvestment also refers to capital expenditure (CapEx) reductions, which can facilitate the re-allocation of resources to more productive areas within an organization or government-funded project.



Whether disinvestment results in the divestiture or the reduction of funding, the primary objective is to maximize the return on investment (ROI) related to capital goods, labor, and infrastructure.





Key Takeaways

Disinvestment is when governments or organizations sell or liquidate assets or subsidiaries. Disinvestments can take the form of divestment or a reduction of capital expenditures (CapEx).Disinvestment is carried out for a variety of reasons, such as strategic, political, or environmental. 


   Understanding Disinvestment  

Disinvestments, in most cases, are primarily motivated by the optimization of resources to deliver maximum returns. To achieve this objective, disinvestment may take the form of selling, spinning off, or reducing capital expenditures. Disinvestments may also be undertaken for political or legal reasons.


   Types of Disinvestment  
  Commoditization and Segmentation  

Within the target market for commoditized goods, a company may identify product segments delivering higher profitability than others, while expenditures, resources, and infrastructure required for manufacturing remain the same for both products.



For example, a company may determine that its industrial tool division is growing faster and generating higher profit margins than its consumer tool division. If the difference in the profitability of the two divisions is large enough, the company may consider disinvesting (e.g. selling) the consumer division. After the disinvestment, the company could allocate both the sales proceeds and recurring capital expenditures to the industrial division to maximize its ROI.


  Ill-Fitting Assets  

A company may opt for the disinvestment of certain assets of a company it has acquired, particularly if those assets do not fit with its overall strategy. For example, a company focused on domestic operations may sell the international division of a company it has purchased, due to the complexities and costs of integration, as well as operating it on an ongoing basis.



As a result of the disinvestment, the acquiring company can reduce the total cost of the purchase and determine the optimal use of the proceeds, which may include reducing debt, keeping the cash on the balance sheet, or making capital investments.


  Political and Legal  

Organizations may decide on the disinvestment of holdings that no longer fit with their social, environmental, or philosophical positions. For example, the Rockefeller Family Foundation, which derived its wealth from oil, divested its energy holdings in 2016 due to false statements from oil companies regarding global warming.



Companies considered to be monopolies may be legally required to disinvest holdings to ensure fair competition. For example, after being found to be a monopoly after eight years in court, AT&T divested its seven regional operating companies in 1984. After disinvestment, AT&T retained its long-distance services, while the operating companies, referred to as the Baby Bells, provided regional services.


   Example of Disinvestment  

Disinvestment in fossil fuels is the most prominent and recent example of political and environment-related disinvestment. In 2011, students on college campuses began demanding that their endowment foundations—which are some of the richest institutional investors in the world—begin divesting their stakes in fossil fuel companies because they were major carbon polluters.



The movement spans 37 countries and has resulted in the divestiture of $6.2 trillion worth of assets, according to a September 2018 report from Arabella Advisors. One thousand institutional investors, including insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, and pension funds, have committed to divest assets related to fossil fuels. The report attributes the surge in fossil fuel-related divestments to moral pressure that gave way to financial and fiduciary imperatives as the movement grew and stocks for major oil companies fell.﻿﻿



Meanwhile, Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) is an example of strategic disinvestment. The Washington-based company was a manufacturer of paper and paper products until 2004. Since that year, it has divested operations by selling its pulp-and-paper manufacturing businesses to focus on real estate and timber.
What Is Dispersion?  

The field of statistics is used across every sector and industry to help people better understand, and predict, potential outcomes. In finance, investors often turn to statistics to gain a sense of how returns on certain assets, or groups of assets, could be distributed. This range of possible investment returns is called dispersion. In other words, dispersion refers to the range of potential outcomes of investments based on historical volatility or returns.



There are two important ways to measure dispersion—alpha and beta—which calculate risk-adjusted returns and returns relative to a benchmark, respectively. By considering the dispersion of possible investment returns and values such as alpha and beta, investors can gain a sense of the risk inherent in a particular security or investment portfolio.





Key Takeaways

Dispersion refers to the range of potential outcomes of investments based on historical volatility or returns.Dispersion can be measured using alpha and beta, which calculate risk-adjusted returns and returns relative to a benchmark index, respectively.Generally speaking, the higher the dispersion, the riskier an investment is, and vice versa.


   Understanding Dispersion  

Dispersion is often interpreted as a measure of the degree of uncertainty, and thus risk, associated with a particular security or investment portfolio.



Investors have thousands of potential securities to invest in and many factors to consider in choosing where to invest. One factor high on their list of considerations is the risk profile of the investment. Dispersion is one of many statistical measures to give perspective.






Most funds will address their risk profile in their fact sheets or prospectuses, which can be readily found on the internet. Information on individual stocks, meanwhile, can be found via Morningstar and similar stock rating companies.



When it comes to statistics in finance, investors often turn to metrics such as correlation when discussing diversification and the variation of portfolios over time. However, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices, the measure known as asset dispersion has strong qualifications as a complementary tool. Understandably, since the dispersion of possible returns on an asset provides insight about the volatility and risk associated with holding that asset. The more variable the return on an asset, the more risky or volatile it is.



For example, an asset whose historical return in any given year ranges from +10% to -10% can be considered more volatile than an asset whose historical return ranges from +3% to -3% because its returns are more widely dispersed.


   Measuring Dispersion  
  Beta  

The primary risk measurement statistic, beta, measures the dispersion of a security's return relative to a particular benchmark or market index, most frequently the U.S. S&P 500 index. A beta measure of 1.0 indicates the investment moves in unison with the benchmark.



A beta greater than 1.0 indicates the security is likely to experience moves greater than the market as a whole—a stock with a beta of 1.3 could be expected to experience moves that are 1.3x the market, meaning if the market is up 10%, the beta stock of 1.3 climbs 13%. The flip side is that, if the market goes down, that security will likely go down more than the market, although there are no guarantees of the magnitude of the moves.



A beta of less than 1.0 signifies a less dispersed return relative to the overall market. For example, a security with a beta of 0.87 will likely trail the overall market—if the market is up 10%, then the investment with the lower beta would be expected to rise only 8.7%.


  Alpha  

Alpha is a statistic that measures a portfolio's risk-adjusted returns—that is, how much, more or less, the investment returned relative to the index or beta.



A return higher than the beta indicates a positive alpha, usually attributed to the success of the portfolio manager or model. A negative alpha, on the other hand, indicates the lack of success of the portfolio manager in beating the beta or, more broadly, the market.




What Is Descriptive Stats?
Descriptive statistics is a means of using summaries of a data sample to describe features of a larger data set. For example, a population census may include descriptive statistics regarding the ratio of men and women in a specific city.




What Is Covariance?
Covariance is a statistical measure of the directional relationship between two asset returns. Finding that two stocks that have a high or low covariance might not be a useful metric on its own. Some investors may choose to supplement their analysis by looking at the dispersion of returns, or correlation before deciding to invest.




What Is Beta?
In finance, beta is a measure of volatility of a security or portfolio compared to the market as a whole. Tracking beta over time can provide investors with a useful risk profile for the asset compared to a major index.


   The Bottom Line  

Dispersion refers to a statistical measure of the range of potential outcomes for an investment based on its historical volatility or returns. Two important ways to represent dispersion are alpha, which calculates risk-adjusted returns, and beta, which describes returns relative to a benchmark.Analyzing the dispersion of possible returns can help you understand the level of risk represented by a particular investment, although it's important to keep in mind that a security's future returns may diverge from its past performance.
What Is Disposable Income?  

Disposable income, also known as disposable personal income (DPI), is the amount of money that an individual or household has to spend or save after income taxes have been deducted. At the macro level, disposable personal income is closely monitored as one of the key economic indicators used to gauge the overall state of the economy.





Key Takeaways

Disposable income is net income. It's the amount left over after taxes.Discretionary income is the amount of net income remaining after all necessities are covered.Economists monitor these numbers at a macro level to see how consumers save, spend, and borrow.Shelter, food, and debts are usually paid using disposable income.The government uses disposable income when deciding how much of a paycheck to seize for money owed in back taxes or child support. 












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Disposable Income  

Disposable income is the amount of money that people or families have left over after paying their taxes and other mandated costs. These mandated costs often stem from government legislation. It stands for the portion of income that may be freely spent on discretionary items or activities such as saving, investing, or enjoying leisure time as well as living costs that may not necessarily be imposed but still needed to survive.



Disposable income plays a critical factor in today's economy. It drives how much consumers spend, how much companies earn, and how much people save. By extension, it causes or impacts consumer demand for goods, manufacturing, distribution, and the well-being of the economy.



A number of statistical measures and economic indicators derive from disposable income. For example, economists use disposable income as a starting point to calculate metrics such as discretionary income, personal savings rates, marginal propensity to consume (MPC), and marginal propensity to save (MPS).






   Formula and Calculation of Disposable Income  

One could argue there are many slight variations to disposable income; in general, the formula to calculate disposable income is:



Disposable Income = Total Income - Taxes - Mandatory Deductions



Total income represents the entirety of gross wages that an individual or collective society earns. This may be netted against returned wages or sales or other implicit reductions related to the course of earning that direct income. For example, products returned from a customer would reduce a sole proprietor's total income.



Taxes and mandatory deductions are often government-sanctioned impositions that an individual cannot be excused from. These impositions may include income tax, other payroll taxes, applicable taxes to one's specific geographical region, and compulsory contributions such as Society Security.


   Uses for Disposable Income  
  Discretionary Income  

Discretionary income is equal to disposable income minus all payments for necessities, including a mortgage or rent payment, health insurance, food, and transportation. This portion of disposable income can be spent at will. Discretionary income is the first to shrink after a job loss or pay reduction. Businesses that sell discretionary goods, like jewelry or vacation packages tend to suffer the most during recessions. Their sales are watched closely by economists for signs of both recession and recovery.


  Personal Savings Rate  

The personal savings rate is the percentage of disposable income that goes into savings for retirement or other goals. For several months in 2005 and 2006, the average personal savings rate dipped into negative territory for the first time since 1933. This means that Americans spent all of their disposable income every month and still had to tap into savings or debt to make up the difference.


  Marginal Propensity  

Marginal propensity to consume is the percentage of each additional dollar of disposable income that is spent immediately, while marginal propensity to save is the percentage that is saved.






Both the marginal propensity to consume and the marginal propensity to save are positively correlated to income. As people make more money, they're more likely to buy things and save for the future. This is usually shown graphically as an upward-sloping curve.


   Importance of Disposable Income  

Disposable income is not only important to individuals but holds massive value to society as a whole. Highlights of why disposable income is important includes:



Financial Flexibility: Having disposable income gives people the freedom to decide how to spend their money. Greater flexibility is possible when managing personal money, taking care of current requirements, and making long-term plans.
Higher Level of Living: A higher level of living is influenced by disposable money. It makes it possible for people to enjoy higher quality goods and services, leisure pursuits, hobbies, and participation in social and cultural events.
Economic Growth: Consumer spending, a major contributor to macroeconomic growth, is driven in large part by disposable income. When people have extra money, they are more inclined to spend it on products and services, which boosts economic activity and opens up job chances.
Savings and Investments: People with disposable income can put money away for the future. It makes it possible for people to achieve long-term financial objectives such as saving for emergencies, purchasing investments, paying into retirement plans, and more. In addition, investing disposable income allows companies to receive capital for further economic growth.
Tax Revenue: If a person has no disposable income, this means all of their wages have been captured for taxes or they do not make any money. This model may be demotivational in a capitalistic society and not sustainable in the long run.


   Wage Garnishments  

The federal government uses a slightly different method to calculate disposable income for wage garnishment purposes. This is the seizure of a portion of a wage earner's paycheck before it is paid every payday until the amount due for back taxes or overdue child support is repaid.



For this purpose, the government uses disposable income as a starting point to determine how much of each paycheck to seize. The amount garnished may not exceed 25% of a person's disposable income or the amount by which a person's weekly income exceeds 30 times the federal minimum wage, whichever is less. The amount paid into a gross income retirement plan also is deducted from disposable income in this calculation.


   Real-World Examples of Disposable Income  

The Bureau of Economic Analysis within the U.S. Department of Commerce tracks month-over-month change of disposable personal income. For example, from February 2023 to March 2023, the government tracked that average disposal household income increased 0.3%. Should this month-over-month measurement decrease, this means households would have less residual income compared to the month prior to satisfy needs.



The Federal Reserve is also interested in disposable income, as household savings and spending influence monetary and fiscal policy. For example, as of March 2023, the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis reported aggregate real disposable personal income in excess of $15.6 trillion. This is contrast of $19.2 trillion in March 2021 when the Federal Reserve prioritized economic stimulus in light of the pandemic.



Last, specific industries are particularly interested in disposable income. For example, the United States Department of Agriculture measures what percent of disposable income an individual spends on food. Long-term trend analysis like this allows the industry to plan for future harvests, understand where consumers purchase goods, and allowing for business owners (or in this case, farmers) to adequately plan for the future.




How Do You Calculate Disposable Income?
To calculate your disposable income, you will first need to know what your gross income is. For an individual, gross income is your total pay, which is the amount of money you've earned before taxes and other items are deducted. From your gross income, subtract the income taxes you owe. The amount left represents your disposable income.




Is Disposable Income Net or Gross?
Disposable income is a net amount.




Is Disposable Income Taxable?
No, disposable income is net of taxes.




What Is the Average Disposable Income in the U.S.?
For 2022, the disposable income per capita in the United States was $55,781. The gap between the richest and the poorest in the U.S., however, is considerable. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) reports that the top 20% of the U.S. population earns almost nine times as much as the bottom 20%.




What Is the Proportion of Saved Disposable Income Called?
The proportion of saved disposable income is known as the average propensity to save (APS). This macroeconomic term is also called the savings ratio and refers to the proportion of a population's income that is saved as opposed to being spent on services or goods. To calculate the APS ratio, divide total savings by disposable (after-tax) income.


   The Bottom Line  

Disposable income is what is left over after taxes, and is what households used for consumption of needs and wants. Things like rent, bills, food shopping, gasoline, and so on come out of disposable income. What is left over for savings or wants (vs. needs) is known as discretionary income.



To increase disposable income, one can earn more and/or reduce their tax liability. In aggregate, when disposable income increases, households have more money to either save or spend, which naturally leads to a growth in consumption. Consumer spending is one of the most important determinants of demand; it creates the demand that keeps companies profitable and hiring new workers.
What Is a Disposition?  

A disposition is the act of selling or otherwise "disposing" of an asset or security. The most common form of a disposition would be selling a stock investment on the open market, such as a stock exchange.



Other types of dispositions include donations to charities or trusts, the sale of real estate, either land or a building, or any other financial asset. Still, other forms of dispositions involve transfers and assignments. The bottom line is that the investor has given up possession of an asset.





Key Takeaways

A disposition refers generally to the selling securities or assets on the open market.Dispositions can also take the form of transfers or donations to charities, endowments, or trusts.For business dispositions, the SEC requires certain reporting to be completed depending on the nature of the disposition.Dispositions that are donations, assignments, or transfers, can often be used to take advantage of beneficial tax treatment.


   Understanding a Disposition  

A "disposition of shares" is perhaps the most commonly used phrase regarding a disposition. Let’s say an investor has been a long-time shareholder of a particular company, but lately, the company may not be doing so well.



If they decide to exit the investment, it would amount to a disposition of that investment—a disposition of shares. Most likely, they would sell their shares through a broker on a stock exchange. Ultimately, they have decided to get rid of, or dispose of, that investment.



If the sale results in any sort of capital gain, then the investor will have to pay capital gains tax on the profits of the sale if they meet the requirements set by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).



Other types of dispositions include transfers and assignments, where someone legally assigns or transfers particular assets to their family, a charity, or another type of organization. Mostly this is done for tax and accounting purposes, where the transfer or assignment relieves the disposer of tax or other liabilities.



For example, if an investor purchased stock for $5,000 and the investment grew to $15,000, the investor can avoid the capital gains tax on their profit by donating it to a charity. The investor is then able to include the entire $15,000 as a tax deduction.


   Business Disposition  

Businesses also dispose of assets, and very often, of entire business segments or units. This is commonly known as divestiture and can be done through a spinoff, split-up, or split-off.



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has very specific guidelines on how these dispositions must be reported and handled. If the disposition is not reported in the financial statements of a company, then pro forma financial statements are required if the disposition meets the requirements of a significance test.



"Significance" is determined by either an income test or an investment test. An investment test measures the investment value in the unit being disposed of compared to total assets. If the amount is more than 10% as of the most recent fiscal year-end, then it is considered significant.﻿﻿﻿



The income test measures if the "equity in the income from continuing operations before taxes, extraordinary items, and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles" is 10% or more of such income of the most recent fiscal year-end.﻿﻿﻿ In certain situations, the threshold level can be increased to 20%.


   The Disposition Effect  

Behavioral economics also has something to say about one's propensity to sell a winning vs. losing position based on the concept of loss aversion. The "disposition effect" is a term that describes investor behavior in which they have a tendency to sell winning investments too early before realizing all potential gains while holding on to losing investments for longer than they should, hoping that the investments will turn around and generate a profit.



This effect was first introduced by Hersh Shefrin and Meir Statman in 1985 in their paper, "The Disposition to Sell Winners Too Early and Ride Losers Too Long: Theory and Evidence." Studies show that investors should do the exact opposite of what the disposition effect states they tend to do.
What Is Disruptive Innovation?  

Disruptive innovation refers to the innovation that transforms expensive or highly sophisticated products or services—previously accessible to a high-end or more-skilled segment of consumers—to those that are more affordable and accessible to a broader population. This transformation disrupts the market by displacing long-standing, established competitors.





Key Takeaways

Disruptive innovation refers to innovations and technologies that make expensive or sophisticated products and services accessible and more affordable to a broader market.Disruptive innovation refers to the use of technology that upsets a structure, as opposed to "disruptive technology", which refers to the technology itself.Amazon, launched as an online bookstore in the mid-1990s, is an example of disruptive innovation.Disruptive innovation requires enabling technology, an innovative business model, and a coherent value network.Sustaining innovation is the process of innovating to improve products and services for existing customers.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   Understanding Disruptive Innovation  

Disruptive innovation involves technologies used to make products easier to use or access and available to a larger, non-targeted market. Note that it does not involve the process of improving or enhancing products for the same target market. An example of disruptive innovation is the introduction of digital music downloads, which have, by far, replaced compact discs.



Clayton Christensen popularized the idea of disruptive innovation in the book The Innovator’s Solution, which was a follow-up to The Innovators Dilemma published in 1997.



Christensen posited that there are two types of technologies businesses deal with. Sustainable technologies allow a business to incrementally improve its operations in a predictable timeframe. These technologies and the way they are incorporated into a business are primarily designed to allow companies to remain competitive, or at least maintain a status quo. Disruptive technologies and the way they are integrated—the disruptive innovations—are more difficult to plan for and potentially more devastating to companies that do not pay enough attention to them.



Investing in a disruptive innovation can be complicated. It requires an investor to focus on how companies will adapt to disruptive technology instead of focusing on the development of the technology itself.





Note

Companies such as Amazon (AMZN), Google (GOOGL), and Meta (META), formerly Facebook, are examples of companies that have heavily focused on the internet as a disruptive technology.



The internet has become so ingrained in the modern world that the companies that failed to integrate disruptive innovation into their business models have been pushed aside. Artificial intelligence (AI) and its potential to learn from employees and perform their jobs may be a disruptive innovation for the job market as a whole soon.



The internet was disruptive because it was not an iteration of previous technology. It was something new that created unique models for making money that never existed before. Of course, that created losses for other business models.



People using smartphones instead of laptops and desktops for their computing needs, including web browsing and streaming, is another example of disruptive innovation. Technological enhancements have enabled cell phones to be equipped with small processors, chips, and software applications that support these functions.


   Requirements for Disruptive Innovation  

Disruptive innovation requires access to ignored or overlooked markets and technology that can transform a product into a more accessible and affordable one. To be disruptive, the network of partners—suppliers, contractors, and distributors—also must benefit from the new, disruptive business model. Certain core requirements include:



Enabling Technology: In business, enabling technology is defined as the technologies and innovations that substantially change or improve processes or how people do things. Specific to disruptive innovation, enabling technology is the technology or innovation that makes possible the affordability and availability of a product to a broader market. Basically, the speed with which a market can be disrupted depends on how quickly the technology is developed and subsequently improved upon. However, the speed of the disruption is not necessarily a metric used to gauge the success of the disruption.Innovative Business Model: The innovative business model is a business model that uses innovations to target new or bottom-tier customers. These segments generally don't drive profits for established companies nor do they buy their offerings because they either could not afford them or the products were too sophisticated for use. This business model—a model not adopted by incumbents because of the disruptor's initial low-profit margins—seeks to present easy-to-use, economical solutions.Coherent Value Network: The coherent value network includes the upstream and downstream business partners that benefit from a successful disruption. The distributors, suppliers, and vendors may require process changes or reorganization to adapt or conform to the new business model. Members of the network must subscribe to the new business model to prevent failure. Otherwise, old network processes will yield undesirable results by not prescribing to the goal of disruption.


   Disruptive Innovation vs. Sustaining Innovation  

Disruptive innovation is an innovation that simplifies and makes more affordable products and services to undesirable or ignored markets. Established companies typically strive to improve their products and services for their profitable customer base, largely ignoring the needs and desires of untapped segments. This lack of attention gives smaller companies or new entrants ground to target this ignored population with simpler, more affordable options.



Sustaining innovation, on the other hand, is the process of innovating to make existing products and services better for the existing customer base, either based on customer or market demands. Sustaining innovation does not target untapped or ignored markets; rather, it's innovating to remain relevant and competitive. CD makers making CDs with the capacity to hold large volumes of music that are scratch-resistant is sustaining innovation. A company introducing digital downloads via the internet, making CDs obsolete, is disruptive innovation.


   Examples of Disruptive Innovation  

Disruptive innovation is differentiated from disruptive technology in that it focuses on the use of the technology rather than the technology itself. Two well-known examples of this are Amazon and Netflix.


  Amazon  

A classic example of the disruptive innovation of the internet being unleashed was the restructuring of the bookselling industry. The big bookselling chains lost out to Amazon (AMZN) because it could display its inventory without owning a physical store in every town and then ship the book to the buyer's home. Before online shopping became popular, books were sold in traditional bookstores, such as Barnes & Noble and the now-defunct Borders.



Amazon's popularity grew along with its profits and market share, moving many bookstores to the back of the shelf or out of business. Since its launch, Amazon has successfully used the internet to create an online shopping platform, whereby most of what's offered in a physical store—including groceries—can be ordered from Amazon's website. And it all began with a small, garage-born company using the power of the internet to attend to the needs of a niche market of online shopping, book enthusiasts.





Note

The Model T car is an example of something not considered to be disruptive innovation because it was an improvement on existing technology and it wasn't widely adopted upon its release. The auto industry didn't take off until mass production reduced prices, moving the entire transportation system from hooves to wheels. In that sense, the system of mass production does meet the criteria for disruptive innovation.


  Netflix  

Netflix (NFLX) is another disruptive innovator. During a time when VHS tapes and DVDs were rented in abundance from thousands of video stores, new-entrant Netflix saw an opening to cater to an overlooked market of online shoppers. Utilizing the growing power of the internet, it offered consumers the ability to peruse their catalog of DVDs, rent unencumbered by someone else's choice to rent the same selection, and have their selections sent directly to their home.






After Netflix disrupted the media industry, Blockbuster went from having more than 9,000 Blockbuster brick-and-mortar stores to one.



Not long after offering mail-delivered DVD rentals, it revised its business model, finding an avenue to disrupt itself in the market by providing online-streamed entertainment. However, competitors have successfully duplicated this business model, taking away from Netflix's market share. Time will tell how long Netflix can remain dominant, but there is no doubt about the disruption it brought about.




What Is the Meaning of Disruptive Innovation?
Disruptive innovation refers to the process of transforming an expensive or highly sophisticated product, offering, or service into one that is simpler, more affordable, and accessible to a broader population. It explains the process of how innovation and technology can change markets by presenting affordable, simple, and accessible solutions and after doing so, disrupts the market from which its predecessors were born.




What Are Examples of Disruptive Innovation?
Amazon provides a clear example of disruptive innovation. Jeff Bezos, in 1995, subscribing to the notion that the internet could significantly boost commerce, launched Amazon to sell books to a growing, but largely ignored online shopping community. In doing so, he forced many bookstores to go out of business. Netflix is another prime example. After it disrupted the media industry, the dominant player, Blockbuster, went from having 9,000+ brick-and-mortar stores to one.




What Are the Key Requirements for Disruptive Innovation?
To be a successful disruptor, the network of partners—suppliers, contractors, and distributors—must also benefit from the new business model. Certain core requirements include having enabling technology, an innovative business model, and a coherent value network where upstream and downstream business partners benefit from a successful disruption.


   The Bottom Line  

Disruptive innovation involves the innovative processes used to transform products and services into simple and affordable options for bottom-tier or traditionally unmarketable consumers. Unlike sustaining innovation, it does not involve improving existing products for current customers.



Disruptive innovation requires technology that can transform the product or service into something more affordable and easy-to-use, a business model that supports the disruptive innovation, and a network of upstream and downstream partners who support and will benefit from the success of the disruption. Amazon and Netflix are examples of market disruptors that began as new entrants in industries dominated by well-known, established companies.
What Is Disruptive Technology?  

Disruptive technology is an innovation that significantly alters the way that consumers, industries, or businesses operate. A disruptive technology sweeps away the systems or habits it replaces because it has attributes that are recognizably superior.



Recent disruptive technology examples include e-commerce, online news sites, ride-sharing apps, and GPS systems.



In their own times, the automobile, electricity service, and television were disruptive technologies.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Disruptive Technology Explained  

Clayton Christensen introduced the idea of disruptive technologies in a 1995 Harvard Business Review article. Christensen later expanded on the topic in The Innovator's Dilemma, published in 1997. It has since become a buzzword in startup businesses that seek to create a product with mass appeal.



Even a startup with limited resources can aim at technology disruption by inventing an entirely new way of getting something done. Established companies tend to focus on what they do best and pursue incremental improvements rather than revolutionary changes. They cater to their largest and most demanding customers.





Key Takeaways

A disruptive technology supersedes an older process, product, or habit.It usually has superior attributes that are immediately obvious, at least to early adopters.Upstarts rather than established companies are the usual source of disruptive technologies.



This provides an opening for disruptive businesses to target overlooked customer segments and gain an industry presence. Established companies often lack the flexibility to adapt quickly to new threats. That allows disruptors to move upstream over time and cannibalize more customer segments.



Disruptive technologies are difficult to prepare for because they can appear suddenly.


  The Potential of Disruptive Technology  

Risk-taking companies may recognize the potential of disruptive technology in their own operations and target new markets that can incorporate it into their business processes. These are the "innovators" of the technology adoption lifecycle. Other companies may take a more risk-averse position and adopt an innovation only after seeing how it performs for others.



Companies that fail to account for the effects of disruptive technology may find themselves losing market share to competitors that have discovered ways to integrate the technology.


  Blockchain as an Example of Disruptive Technology  

Blockchain, the technology behind Bitcoin, is a decentralized distributed ledger that records transactions between two parties. It moves transactions from a centralized server-based system to a transparent cryptographic network. The technology uses peer-to-peer consensus to record and verify transactions, removing the need for manual verification.






The automobile, electricity service, and television all were disruptive technologies in their own times.



Blockchain technology has enormous implications for financial institutions such as banks and stock brokerages. For example, a brokerage firm could execute peer-to-peer trade confirmations on the blockchain, removing the need for custodians and clearinghouses, which will reduce financial intermediary costs and dramatically expedite transaction times.


  Investing in Disruptive Technology  

Investing in companies that create or adopt disruptive technologies carries significant risk. Many products considered disruptive take years to be adopted by consumers or businesses, or are not adopted at all. The Segway electric vehicle was once touted as a disruptive technology until it wasn't.



Investors can gain exposure to disruptive technology by investing in exchange-traded funds (ETFs) such as the ALPS Disruptive Technologies ETF (DTEC). This fund invests in a variety of innovative areas such as the internet of things, cloud computing, fintech, robotics, and artificial intelligence.
What Are Dissenters' Rights?  

Under various forms of state legislation, dissenting shareholders of a corporation are entitled to receive a cash payment for the fair value of their shares, in the event of a share-for-share merger or acquisition (M&A) to which the shareholders do not consent. Dissenters' rights allow dissenting shareholders an easy way out of the company if they do not want to be a part of the merger.





Key Takeaways

Dissenters' rights ensure a shareholder that they can sell their shares at fair value in the event that a company takes a decision that they do not agree with.Dissenters' rights are guaranteed under state corporate law.When a dissenting shareholder disagrees with a firm's actions, they can exercise appraisal rights; appraising their shares, and being paid the fair market value for them.Dissenters' rights provide an easy way out of a company for a shareholder.There are many risks associated with dissenters' rights, such as the cost of litigation or shares being undervalued in the appraisal process.


   Understanding Dissenters' Rights  

Prior to the legislation creating dissenters' rights, mergers and acquisitions required a unanimous vote in favor of the deal from the shareholders of the company. This allowed for just one dissenting shareholder to veto the merger or acquisition, even though it may have been in the best interest of the company. State legislation took away this right, but in turn, gave the shareholders the right to receive the cash payment for their shares instead.



Although dissenting rights have made it easier to move ahead with a number of corporate transactions, certain business decisions are still not without issues. For instance, while the day-to-day operations of a corporation, and even the policies governing its ongoing operations, are generally left to the corporation's officers and directors, any "extraordinary" matter, such as a merger, must be approved by the corporation's shareholders.


   Exercising Dissenters' Rights  

If the necessary majority of the corporation's shareholders approve a merger or consolidation, it will advance, and the shareholders will receive compensation. However, no shareholder who votes against the transaction is required to accept shares in the surviving or successor corporation. Instead, they may exercise appraisal rights.



Under appraisal rights, a dissenting shareholder who objects to an extraordinary transaction may have their shares of the pre-merger corporation appraised, and be compensated for the fair market value of their shares by the pre-merger company.



The financial world has seen an increase in appraisals in relation to dissenters' rights in many states, oftentimes due to the fact that the appraisal valuations have been higher than the price of the merged company. This provides added incentive for a shareholder to cash in before the merger.



Though there can be benefits to exercising dissenters' rights, they do come with many risks. The valuation can be much lower than the merged price, resulting in a possible loss. Furthermore, the appraisal process can be lengthy and complex, requiring high litigation costs that the shareholder will have to incur themselves up until the court ruling.
What Is a Distress Sale?  

A distress sale—also called a distressed sale—occurs when a property, stock, or other asset must be sold quickly. Distress sales often result in a financial loss for the seller who, for reasons of economic duress, must accept a lower price. The proceeds from these assets are most often used to pay debts or medical expenses or for other emergencies.





Key Takeaways

Distress sales occur when the seller needs to sell an asset urgently, often to pay debts or medical expenses or for other emergencies.A short sale is a form of distressed sale in which the homeowner attempts to sell their property even though the current market value is below the amount owed to their lender.Distress sales often result in a financial loss for the seller because buyers realize that the seller is in a hurry to obtain funds and will offer a lower price.Buying a property through foreclosure or a distressed sale may mean that the property is in a poor state of repair.


   How Distress Sales Work  

Mortgage borrowers who can no longer meet the payments for their mortgaged property may opt to sell their property to pay off the mortgage. Examples of situations where distress sales occur include divorce, foreclosures, and relocations.



A short sale by a homeowner can be considered a distressed sale. Here, the homeowner is attempting to sell their property even though its current market value is below the amount owed to their lender. This can occur if the homeowner is forced to move from the home and cannot wait for the property's market value to recover. The homeowner may have a new job that requires immediate relocation, for example. A divorce could force a home to be sold in order to liquidate assets that must be divided between the parties. A lender typically must agree to a short sale before it can proceed because such a transaction would remove the collateral that secured the mortgage.


  How a distress sale can lead to a net loss  

If a distress sale is conducted for a piece of property such as an antique or collectible art, the seller might choose to take offers that are lower than the value of the item. The seller might request offers by advertising the item or instead might offer the item to a pawnbroker.



When the seller of an item deals with a pawnbroker, they will likely receive offers below the value of the item. The pawnbroker bids low because they intend to resell the item for a higher price and turn a profit. Even if an item is appraised at a higher value, a pawnbroker will still look for a way to make a profit.






The tradeoff a seller gets from accepting an offer that is below market value is the immediate cash the sale provides.



There are times when potential buyers may take advantage of the circumstances that forced a seller into conducting a distress sale. The buyer may be aware of the seller’s immediate need to complete a transaction and receive payment. This could lead to bids that are substantially lower than the value of the property.


   Special Considerations  

If an asset is sold through a distress sale, the valuation of the asset is considered artificial because it was not sold under true competitive market conditions. In the case of real estate, for example, the sales price cannot be used as a comparator to establish the asset's true value.


  Buying a distressed property  

Buying a distressed property means that you stand a good chance of buying it at a price that is below market value. However, there are drawbacks. If the seller was in a hurry to sell, it is unlikely that they will have performed any repairs on the house to boost the sales price. The new owners may have to spend a substantial amount to bring the property up to the desired state.
What Are Distressed Securities?  

Distressed securities are financial instruments issued by a company that is near to—or currently going through—bankruptcy. Distressed securities can include common and preferred shares, bank debt, trade claims, and corporate bonds.



A particular security can also be considered distressed if it fails to maintain certain covenants (obligations incorporated into the debt or security, such as the ability to maintain a certain asset to liability ratio, or a particular credit rating.)



As a result of the issuing company's inability to meet its financial obligations, their financial instruments suffer a substantial reduction in value. However, because of the implicit riskiness of distressed securities, they can offer high-risk investors the potential for high returns.





Key Takeaways

Distressed securities are securities issued by a company that is near to—or in the midst of—bankruptcy.The company may also have breached covenants (conditions of the security issuance), which is frequently a precursor to the bankruptcy itself.Certain high-risk investors, sometimes known as ‘hawks’, are willing to invest in distressed securities in the hope of making a quick buck.


   Understanding Distressed Securities  

Distressed securities often appeal to investors who are looking for a bargain and are willing to accept risk. In some cases, these investors believe the company's situation is not as bad as it looks, and as a result, they anticipate their investments will increase in value over time. In other cases, investors may foresee the company going into bankruptcy. However, they feel confident that there might be enough money upon liquidation to cover the securities they have purchased.



In many cases, the companies that issue distressed securities end up filing for Chapter 11 or Chapter 7 bankruptcy; as a result, individuals interested in investing in these securities need to consider what happens in the case of bankruptcy. In most bankruptcies, equity—such as common shares—is rendered worthless. This makes investing in distressed stocks extremely risky. However, senior debt instruments, such as bank debt, trade claims, and bonds, may yield some payout.



In particular, if a business files Chapter 7 bankruptcy it will stop operations and go into liquidation. At this point, its funds are dispensed to its creditors, including bondholders.



Conversely, under Chapter 11 bankruptcy, a business restructures and continues operations. If reorganization is successful, its distressed securities, including both stocks and bonds, may yield surprising amounts of profits.


   Example of a Distressed Security  

Securities are labeled as distressed when the company issuing them is unable to meet many of its financial obligations. In most cases, these securities carry a "CCC" or below credit rating from debt-rating agencies, such as Standard and Poor's or Moody's Investor Services. Distressed securities can be contrasted with junk bonds, which traditionally have a credit rating of BBB or lower.



Typically, the anticipated rate of return on a distressed security is more than 1,000 basis points above the rate of return of a so-called risk-free asset, such as a U.S. Treasury bill or Treasury bond. For example, if the yield on a five-year Treasury bond is 1%, a distressed corporate bond has a rate of return of 11% or higher, based on the fact that one basis point equates to 0.01%.
What Is Distributable Net Income?  

The term distributable net income (DNI) refers to income allocated from a trust to its beneficiaries. Distributable net income is the maximum amount received by a unitholder or a beneficiary that is taxable. This figure is capped to ensure there is no instance of double taxation. Any amount above the DNI is, therefore, tax-free.





Key Takeaways

Distributable net income is income allocated to the beneficiaries of a trust.This figure is the maximum taxable amount received by a unitholder or beneficiary—anything above that figure is tax-free.DNI gives beneficiaries a reliable income source while minimizing the amount of income taxes paid by the trust.DNI is calculated using the trust's taxable income, subtracting the capital gain or adding the capital loss, then adding the exemption.


   Understanding Distributable Net Income (DNI)  

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers distributable net income to be an estimate of the economic value that stems from a distribution to a beneficiary. A distribution is a payment made from a fund—an estate or an income trust—to a beneficiary. DNI gives beneficiaries a reliable income source while minimizing the amount of income taxes paid by the trust.



Just like individuals, estates and non-grantor trusts must file income tax returns. Non-grantor trusts are still funded by the grantor—the person or entity that creates the trust. But this kind of trust functions entirely on its own from the grantor who gives up control of the assets to the trust. The income these trusts report is taxed at either the entity or beneficiary level. Which level is taxed depends on whether it is allocated to the principal amount or to the distributable income, and whether the amount is distributed to the beneficiaries. 



According to U.S. tax code, estates and trusts are allowed to deduct the sum of the trust income required to be distributed and other amounts “properly paid or credited or required to be distributed” or the distributable net income, whichever is less, to beneficiaries to prevent double taxation on income. An income trust recognizes distributable net income as an amount transferred to unitholders. With an estate trust, it’s the amount to be distributed to a beneficiary.






Estates and trusts are allowed to deduct the distributable net income or the sum of the trust income required to be distributed—whichever is less.


   Special Considerations  

As noted above, when a trust calculates the distributable net income, it essentially prevents any instance of double taxation of the funds issued by a trust. The formula to calculate the figure is as follows:



Distributable Net Income (DNI) = Taxable Income - Capital Gains + Tax Exemption



In instances where there are capital losses, that figure replaces the capital gains and is added to the formula instead of subtracted.






The personal exemption, repealed for individuals through 2025 as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), was not repealed for trusts and estates. Trusts are allowed $100 or $300 exemptions, while estates are allowed a $600 exemption.



In order to calculate the taxable income, you need to add the interest income, dividends, and capital gains, then subtract any fees and tax exemptions. Unlike the DNI calculation, capital gains are added in the taxable income formula while capital losses are subtracted.


   Distributable Net Income (DNI) vs. Net Income  

Distributable net income shouldn't be confused with net income as they are two different things. While DNI is the income distributed from a trust to its beneficiary or beneficiaries, net income is used by a business to calculate its earnings per share (EPS)—the total profit of a company divided by the number of outstanding shares of its common stock—and is also referred to as net earnings.



Net income appears on a company's balance sheet and helps indicate how profitable the company is. In order to calculate its net income, corporations subtract any general and administrative expenses, operating expenses, interest, taxes, other expenses, and the cost of goods sold (COGS) from the total amount of sales.



Net income can also be used to refer to an individual's take-home pay. This is the amount of money a person receives after any deductions are taken from their paychecks such as taxes, healthcare, disability, insurance, and any other expenses. A person's net income can be contrasted with their gross income—the amount they receive before any deductions.


   Example of Distributable Net Income (DNI)  

Here's an example of how DNI is calculated using a fictional trust we'll call ABC Trust. Let's say ABC Trust reported total income of $40,000. Interest income was $10,000 of this, while the remaining $30,000 was derived from dividends. Fees charged by the trust amounted to $3,000, and the trust realized a capital gain of $15,000. An exemption of $300 applied to the trust.



If we use the formula above, the trust's taxable income is $51,700:



$51,700 = $10,000 (interest income) + $30,000 (dividends) + $15,000 (capital gain) - $3,000 (fees) - $300 (exemption)



We can then use this taxable income figure to calculate the DNI, which would be $37,000:



$37,000 = $51,700 (taxable income) - $15,000 (capital gain) + $300 (exemption)




What Is the Difference Between Taxable Income and Distributable Net Income?
A trust's taxable income includes interest income, dividends, and capital gains, and it subtracts any fees, tax exemptions, and capital losses. For the DNI calculation, capital gains are subtracted back out, while tax exemptions and capital losses are added back in.




Does Distributable Net Income Include Capital Gains?
Distributable net income excludes capital gains and losses. It is removed from the taxable income figure for the purposes of calculating DNI.




What Are the 2022 Trust and Estate Exemption Amounts?
In 2022, a decedent's estate is allowed a $600 exemption, a trust required to distribute all income is allowed a $300 exemption, and a qualified disability trust is allowed a $4,400 exemption. All other trusts are allowed a $100 exemption.


   The Bottom Line  

Distributable net income is the income that is allocated to beneficiaries of a trust, specifically the maximum amount that is taxable. The formula used to calculate DNI takes the taxable income, subtracts capital gains and adds an exemption, which was not eliminated for trusts and estates by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2018.
What Is Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT)?  

Distributed ledger technology (DLT) is the technological infrastructure and protocols that allow simultaneous access, validation, and record updating across a networked database. DLT is the technology blockchains are created from, and the infrastructure allows users to view any changes and who made them, reduces the need to audit data, ensures data is reliable, and only provides access to those that need it.





Key Takeaways

Distributed ledgers are maintained by a network of nodes, each of which has a copy of the ledger, validates the information, and helps reach a consensus about its accuracy.Distributed ledgers have been around for decades but have become more well-known, researched, used, and developed since Bitcoin was introduced.Distributed ledgers can be used in nearly every industry where data is collected and used.All blockchains are distributed ledgers, but not all distributed ledgers are blockchains.Though DLT enhances accountability, security, and accessibility, it is still complex, difficult to scale, and not subject to strong regulation.


   History of Distributed Ledgers  

Distributed computing is not new—businesses and governments have been using the concept for several decades. In the 1990s, it became possible for multiple computers and users in different locations to solve problems and return the solutions to a central location.



Advances in data science, computing, software, hardware, and other technologies have made ledgers much more capable. Improved connectivity through intranet and internet protocols allowed for much more data to be collected, analyzed, and used. However, because there can now be many users with access to data, it is necessary to have someone verify the changes.



Computer and data scientists developed programs that reduced the need for auditing data. These programs used automation and data encryption techniques to verify database transactions or changes in a database's state. This is called consensus—the act of automated majority agreement on transaction validity, where a transaction is simply a change made to a database's state.



Distributed ledgers evolved into scalable and programmable platforms, as seen in Ethereum and HyperLedger Fabric, where solutions can be created to use a database, or ledger, for everything from tokenizing physical assets to streamlining manufacturing and other business processes.


   How Distributed Ledger Technology Works  

DLTs allow information to be stored securely and accurately using cryptography. The data can be accessed using "keys" and cryptographic signatures. Once the information is stored, it can become an immutable database; the rules of the network, written into the coding of the database programming, govern the ledger.






If something is immutable, it is unable to be changed. Distributed ledgers are only immutable if they are programmed to be that way. Blockchains are always immutable because they are decentralized public ledgers



Because they are decentralized, private, and encrypted, distributed ledgers are less prone to cybercrime, as all the copies stored across the network needs to be attacked simultaneously for the attack to be successful. Additionally, the peer-to-peer sharing and updating of records make the whole process much faster, more effective, and cheaper.



Every device on a distributed ledger network stores a copy of the ledger. These devices are called nodes—a network can have any number of nodes. Any changes to the ledger, such as moving data from one block to another, are recorded across all nodes. Because each node has a copy of the ledger, each one publishes its version with the latest transactions.



If the network reaches a consensus about the validity of the latest ledger, the transactions are finalized, encrypted, and used as a basis for the following transactions. This is how blockchains develop—each block contains encrypted information about the proceeding block, which makes them impossible to change.


   Industries Using Distributed Ledger Technology  

Distributed ledgers are created for many different purposes, but one of the most used ways is as a platform for others to scale and use. One of the more well-known distributed ledgers is Hyperledger Fabric. It is a modular and scalable DLT platform that several businesses have used to create solutions that span many industries. Some industries that have implemented DLT solutions include aviation, education, healthcare, insurance, manufacturing, transportation, and utilities.



Supply chains can benefit greatly from DLT. Many factors make them inefficient, inaccurate, and susceptible to corruption or losses. Fujitsu, a global data and information technology company, has designed distributed ledger technology to enhance supply chain transparency and fraud prevention by securing and tracking data.



Fujitsu's Rice Exchange was created to trade rice, ensuring data regarding sources, prices, insurance, shipping, and settlement are recorded on the ledger. Anyone involved can look at any data and find accurate information regarding the entire process because it cannot be changed. All data is entered and secured automatically by the platform—it will eventually provide tracking information for rice shipping containers as it is shipped to its final destination.


   Uses of Distributed Ledger Technology  

Aside from specific industries, there are also specific situations where DLT solutions have proven to add value. Some examples of specific uses of DLT include:



Record transactions. DLT enables secure, transparent and decentralized transactions without the need for a central authority. As DLT is a ledger, it records inflows and outflows. Though this naturally lends itself to financial records, DLT can record any type of transaction even without financial undertones.
Secure identities. DLT can be used to create a secure and tamper-proof digital identity for individuals, as the technology can provide a reliable way to verify identities and prevent identity theft.
Collect votes. DLT can be used to create a secure and transparent voting system that can prevent voter fraud and ensure the integrity of the voting process. As mentioned above, as transactions (financial or non-financial) are recorded, a transparent, immutable, open ledger of interactions with users is saved. This enhances the equity and believability of a collection of opinions.
Enter contracts. DLT allows for smart contracts, agreements that automatically execute or complete based on prevailing conditions. For example, an insurance claim may automatically release funds once the claim has been processed. This limits error, and DLTs make it more difficult for precarious activity by bad actors.
Demonstrate ownership. DLT can be used to record property transactions, creating a tamper-proof and transparent record of ownership and transfer of property. Though there are some limitations on translating real-world ownership of physical assets to a distributed ledger, the ledger may be able to convey an unchangeable source of truth regarding ownership.






DLT may also be referred to as a shared ledger as it requires a ledger to be shared across a peer-to-peer computer network.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Distributed Ledger Technology  
  Pros of DLT  

DLT holds many benefits over more traditional centralized ledger systems. Because DLT is a decentralized system, there is no central point of control or failure. This makes DLT more resilient to attacks and less vulnerable to system-wide failures. Also, because DLT uses cryptographic algorithms to secure data, DLT is nearly impossible to tamper with or forge records. This enhances the trustworthiness of the data and reduces the risk of fraud.



DLT allows for transparent access to data and transactions, allowing all users of the DLT greater visibility into the operations of the system. This may lead to greater buy-in from users due to transparency and accountability of records.



DLT can streamline processes by removing intermediaries and automating transactions through smart contracts. Because smart contracts may automatically execute when contract conditions are met, there may be less need for human interaction or administration. This can reduce costs and increase efficiency.



Last, DLT can enable greater financial inclusion. Some people may have not have access to traditional banking services. As DLT often relies only on an internet connection, individuals who would be otherwise limited may have access to a greater range of services. This extends to the use of different platforms and networks via interoperability.


  Cons of DLT  

Largely due to the infancy of DLT, there are still large downsides to the technology. DLT is still complex and difficult to implement and maintain. In order for companies or individuals to leverage the solution, it often requiring specialized knowledge and expertise especially to implement.



DLT can struggle with scalability as the number of participants and transactions increase. As a result, DLT processes may lead to slower processing capabilities or higher costs of use. In addition, some DLTs such as Bitcoin require a significant amount of energy to maintain the network and process transactions. This can have negative environmental impacts.



As seen by actions of bad actors, the lack of regulation and standardization in the DLT industry can lead to risk for users and investors. By extension, DLT requires widespread adoption to be effective, and many industries and organizations may be hesitant to adopt new technologies due to these security concerns.



Finally, though immutability is one of the strengths of DLT, it can also be a weakness. As all transactions are publicly viewable, it may make it difficult to have true privacy for more sensitive types of transactions. It can also be more difficult to correct or reverse transactions in which errors or fraud has occurred.





Pros

Spreads systematic risk around, minimizing the risk of a single point of failure
Has greater security due to cryptographic algorithms
Allows for transparency and visibility into operations
May prove to be more efficient due to smart contract automation
Offers individuals with limited access to traditional systems potentially greater capabilities



Cons

Is more complex compared to more traditional ledger solutions
Often requires higher energy consumption for operation
May have difficult scaling as more users/transactions occur
Still remains risky due to lack of regulation
May prove to be difficult to reverse fraudulent or erroneous activity





   Why Distribute Ledger Technology Is Important  

DLT is important because it has the potential to transform how information is recorded, stored, and distributed. The importance is often cited across three pillars: security, transparency, and accessibility.


  Security  

Traditional ledger technology often has a central point of control with one single entity often in charge of the ledger. DLT makes the ledger more resilient to attacks and less vulnerable to system-wide failures. As DLT uses cryptographic algorithms to secure data, it also makes it more difficult to tamper with or forge records.



Consider a traditional banking system where a banker is the central point in ensuring your transaction is recorded correctly. In contrast, consider a DLT solution built on a consensus mechanism where all distributed ledgers must be in agreement about how a transaction is recorded. This validation of transactions allows greater trust among users and relinquishes power from any single individual.


  Transparency  

Centralized, traditional ledgers often restrict access to certain individuals. Though this still holds value for sensitive information, there are many use cases where it is more beneficial for all when data and information is broadly distributed and transparent. Consider the example above of voting; having digitally distributed, undisputable, verifiable records of voting may enhance the believability of results.



DLT is also important as it holds the theory of reducing fraud and increasing accountability in the long-term. Note how all transactions within a DLT system are able to be viewed by anyone with access to the DLT. The information may be "audited" by anyone at any time, potentially demotivating bad actors from entering into nefarious activity in such a public sphere.


  Accessibility  

Last, DLT may eventually be critically important to third-world countries or regions where centralized technologies are limited. Think about the banking limitations of different countries around the world. DLT boasts the ability to store and record transactions using only a network connection as opposed to a very niche (and expensive) connection such as a bank account at a specific bank.



As DLT is a relatively new technology that is still being explored and developed, this presents opportunities for innovation and the creation of new applications and use cases. In general, because of the ease of being to access DLT solutions, there are many positive implications on the broad public being able to communally access a shared network with often fewer bureaucratic hurdles to meet prior to access.


   Distributed Ledger Technology Consensus Mechanisms  

A central facet of DLT is how transactions are "approved". Without a universally-agreed system of how items are accepted within the DLT, users of the DLT would be unable to universally agree on how items to include and what items should be excluded.



This process of reviewing transactions is called a consensus mechanism, and a DLT may leverage any of the following processes. Note that consensus mechanisms are constantly evolving, and only several of the more common approaches are listed below.



Proof of Work (PoW): In PoW, miners compete to solve complex mathematical problems to validate transactions and create new blocks. This type of consensus mechanism requires computational power, making it a less environmentally friendly method. The notion of PoW is miners must financially invest and commit resources to approving transactions, so they are incentivized to be "good actors".
Proof of Stake (PoS): In PoS, validators hold a stake in the network and are chosen to validate transactions based on the amount of the stake they hold. Seen as a more environmentally-friendly option, PoS is at greater risk of a 51% attack (when one party can hold a majority of tokens of a network to push through transactions at their will).
Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS): DPoS is a variant of proof of stake where the network selects a limited number of validators to validate transactions. This variation reduces the computational resources required to secure the network. In many ways, a DPoS system is seen as a more democratic means of selecting approvers and offers better scalability.
Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT): In BFT, validators agree on a consensus value based on a voting system. This mechanism strives to avoid the Byzantine Generals Problem which describes a game theory problem where decentralized parties must arrive at a consensus by leveraging a trusted central party.


   Distributed Ledgers vs. Blockchain  

There are several key factors that distinguish blockchain from distributed ledgers. In general, blockchain is a specific type of DLT. DLTs may take various forms, while a blockchain uses one specific infrastructure that uses a linear system of blocks to record and verify information.



Blockchains often leverage a proof of work or proof of stake consensus mechanism, whereas a DLT has a much broader range of mechanisms available. In addition, DLTs are often more broadly used across industries as they can be leveraged for broader problems. Blockchain has historically been most associated with the financial sector as a means of recording a payment system. The security behind either may also vary, with blockchain having a very defined set of criteria with the DLT realm.





Distributed Ledgers

Data can be chained, but doesn't use "blocks"
Can be encrypted
Private and permissioned, but can be permissionless
Can be immutable



Blockchain

Data is stored in chained "blocks"
Always encrypted
Generally public and permissionless, but some are permissioned
Always immutable







What Is Distributed Ledger Technology Used for?
Distributed ledger technology is used to securely store data so that it is unaltered, transparent, synchronized, and accurate. This can be extended to counting votes, recording transactions (financial or non-financial), or reporting activity across all users of a single DLT solution.




Is DLT Better Than Blockchain?
Each has a different purpose. For example, blockchain is designed to be public and permissionless, while DLT is intended for private uses and can be permissioned or permissionless.




Do Banks Use DLT?
Banking ledgers have historically been centralized. However, DLT solutions allow for banking practices (i.e. saving value, entering into transactions, etc.). If a financial institution has implemented a cryptocurrency, digital currency, or other means of recording on a digital ledger, that financial institution can theoretically enter into all of the same transactions as a traditional bank through the use of smart contracts. This can range from recording transactions, KYC information, or settling securities.




What Is the Difference Between DLT and DeFi?
Decentralized finance (DeFi) builds off of DLT solutions. DeFi allows for users to enter into many familiar transactions offered by traditional banking solutions. However, these trades, loans, or investments are made without a centralized intermediary.


   The Bottom Line  

Distributed ledger technology is a platform that uses ledgers stored on separate, connected devices in a network to ensure data accuracy and security. Blockchains evolved from distributed ledgers to address growing concerns that too many third parties are involved in too many transactions.



Distributed ledger technology is becoming necessary in modern businesses and enterprises that need to ensure accuracy in financial reporting, manage supply chains, prevent fraud, and identify inefficiencies. It has many more use cases in business activities that are time-consuming and costly.



Correction—July 6, 2023: A previous version of this article incorrectly listed IBM as the owner of HyperLedger Fabric. HyperLedger Fabric is entirely community built and maintained.
What Are Distributed Ledgers?  

A distributed ledger is a database that is consensually shared and synchronized across multiple sites, institutions, or geographies, accessible by multiple people. It allows transactions to have public "witnesses." The participant at each node of the network can access the recordings shared across that network and can own an identical copy of it. Any changes or additions made to the ledger are reflected and copied to all participants in a matter of seconds or minutes.



A distributed ledger stands in contrast to a centralized ledger, which is the type of ledger that most companies use. A centralized ledger is more prone to cyber attacks and fraud, as it has a single point of failure.



Underlying distributed ledgers is the same technology that is used by blockchain, which is the technology that is used by bitcoin. Blockchain is a type of distributed ledger used by bitcoin.





Key Takeaways

A distributed ledger is a database that is synchronized and accessible across different sites and geographies by multiple participants.The need for a central authority to keep a check against manipulation is eliminated by the use of a distributed ledger.Underlying distributed ledgers is the same technology that is used by blockchain, which bitcoin uses as its distributed ledger.A distributed ledger can be described as a ledger of any transactions or contracts maintained in decentralized form across different locations and people.Cyber attacks and financial fraud are reduced by the use of distributed ledgers.


   Understanding Distributed Ledgers  

Since ancient times, ledgers have been at the heart of economic transactions, with the purpose of recording contracts, payments, buy-sell deals, or moving assets or property. The journey which began with recording on clay tablets or papyrus made a big leap with the invention of paper.



Over the last couple of decades, computers have provided the process of record-keeping and ledger maintenance with great convenience and speed. Today, with innovation, the information stored on computers is moving towards being cryptographically secured, fast, and decentralized. Companies can take advantage of this technology in many forms, one way being through distributed ledgers.



A distributed ledger can be described as a ledger of any transactions or contracts maintained in decentralized form across different locations and people, eliminating the need for a central authority to keep a check against manipulation. In this manner, a central authority is not needed to authorize or validate any transactions.



All the information on the ledger is securely and accurately stored using cryptography and can be accessed using keys and cryptographic signatures. Once the information is stored, it becomes an immutable database, which the rules of the network govern.


   Advantages of Distributed Ledgers  

While centralized ledgers are prone to cyber attacks, distributed ledgers are inherently harder to attack because all of the distributed copies need to be attacked simultaneously for an attack to be successful. Furthermore, these records are resistant to malicious changes by a single party. By being difficult to manipulate and attack, distributed ledgers allow for extensive transparency.



Distributed ledgers also reduce operational inefficiencies, speed up the amount of time a transaction takes to complete, and are automated, and therefore function 24/7, all of which reduce overall costs for the entities that use them.



Distributed ledgers also provide for an easy flow of information, which makes an audit trail easy to follow for accountants when they conduct reviews of financial statements. This helps remove the possibility of fraud occurring on the financial books of a company. The reduction in the use of paper is also a benefit to the environment.


   Use of Distributed Ledgers  

Distributed ledger technology has great potential to revolutionize the way governments, institutions, and corporations work. It can help governments collect tax, issue passports, and record land registries, licenses, and the outlay of Social Security benefits, as well as voting procedures.



The technology is making waves in several industries, including:



FinanceMusic and entertainmentDiamond and precious assetsArtworkSupply chains of various commodities



While the distributed ledger technology has multiple advantages, it’s in a budding stage and is still being explored in how to adopt it in the best possible way. One thing is clear, though: The future format of centuries-old ledgers is to be decentralized.
What Is Distribution?  

The word "distribution" has several meanings in the financial world, most of them pertaining to the payment of assets from a fund, account, or individual security to an investor or beneficiary.



Retirement account distributions are among the most common and are required after the account holder reaches a certain age. A distribution also refers to a company's or a mutual fund's payment of stock, cash, and other payouts to its shareholders.



Distributions come from several different financial products; however, whatever the source, the distribution payment usually goes directly to the beneficiary, either electronically or by check.





Key Takeaways

A distribution generally refers to the disbursement of assets from a fund, account, or individual security to an investor.Mutual fund distributions consist of net capital gains made from the profitable sale of portfolio assets, along with dividend income and interest earned by those assets.With securities, like stocks or bonds, a distribution is a payment of interest, principal, or dividend by the issuer of the security to investors.Tax-advantaged retirement accounts carry required minimum distributions—mandatory withdrawals after the account holder reaches a certain age.A lump-sum distribution is a cash disbursement that is paid out all at once, as opposed to being paid out in steady installments.


   How Distributions Work  

In finance, a distribution can mean many things; however, the term is used most commonly to describe the following situations:



When a mutual fund distributes capital gains, dividends, or interest income to fund ownersWhen a publicly traded company distributes interest or returns capital to shareholdersWhen a retirement account owner takes distributions in the form of taxable income



Regardless of the situation, distributions can generally be regarded as "cash" that goes straight into your pocket.


   Distributions From Mutual Funds  

With mutual funds, distributions represent the allocation of capital gains and dividend or interest income generated by the fund for the investors periodically during a calendar year.



One common type is the net capital gains distributions that come from profits on the sale of a mutual fund's holdings. For example, if a stock is bought for $75 and later sold for $150, the capital gains are $75 minus the fund's operating expenses. The exact amount of the distribution is tallied after the subtraction of these operating expenses.



Once dividends and distributions are disbursed, the fund’s share price declines by the total of the per-share distribution to the fund’s shareholders. The price falls because the distribution is withdrawn from the fund’s assets, which decreases the net asset value (NAV).


   Stock and Bond Distributions  

With securities like stocks or bonds, a distribution is a payment of interest, principal, or dividend by the issuer of the security to the shareholders or bondholders.



When a corporation earns a profit, it can reinvest the funds in the business, but may also pay a portion of the profit to shareholders in the form of a dividend. Sometimes the company offers a dividend reinvestment plan, where the amount can be applied to buying additional shares of the stock or fund.



Without a reinvestment plan, the funds flow into the investor's account as cash.


   Investment Trust Distributions  

The income generated from an investment trust is awarded to investors, typically as a monthly or quarterly distribution. For this reason, distributions function similarly to stock dividends; however, distributions typically offer higher yields that can be as high as 10% a year. The distributions received lower a trust's taxable income and, as a result, little or no income tax is paid.





Important

Mutual fund owners can reinvest their distributions at the fund's net asset value on the ex-dividend date (settles in one day). ETF owners, meanwhile, have to wait a few business days to reinvest their distributions (usually takes three days to settle).


   Retirement Account Distributions  

Distributions from a traditional individual retirement account (IRA) can happen at any time after the creation of the account. Retirement account distributions fall into two categories:



Distributions before age 59½ are subject to an IRS penalty and ordinary income tax. Many IRA owners may face these fees if they use the IRA funds to make large purchases or for an emergency because the funds were untaxed when being deposited into the account.During or after an individual reaches age 59½, distributions incur without the penalty; however, taxpayers will still pay tax on the sums withdrawn at their current tax bracket.



Roth IRAs also generally require the funds to remain in the account until age 59½ before distribution. After the account has been in existence for a certain number of years, account holders may withdraw funds early but will pay penalty fees if they withdraw a sum greater than their contributions—if the distribution includes the account's earnings, in other words.



Other retirement accounts also have age limitations for withdrawals without penalties.



Distributions from qualified plans, such as 403(b) accounts and 457 plans, are two examples of such plans. Specific public school employees, members of religious orders, and other tax-exempt groups have 403(b) plans. The 457 plans contain deferred salary contributions and are mainly used by state and local governments.


   Required Distributions From Retirement Plans  

Except for the Roth IRA, all retirement plans mentioned earlier require the holder to begin withdrawing funds once they reach the age of 73 if they were born between 1951 and 1959 or 75 if they were born in 1960 or after. The exact amount of this annual required minimum distribution (RMD) depends on the account holder's age and the value of funds in the account, as per IRS guidelines.



All distributions from these retirement accounts are taxed based on the individual's tax bracket at the time of withdrawal. The tax assessment reflects the fact that contributions to the account were made with pretax dollars.



Note that only distributions from Roth IRAs or Roth 401(k)s can be taken without income tax being due on them because Roth contributions are made with after-tax dollars—the investor didn't receive a tax deduction or credit at the time. Further, the Roth accounts do not have the required minimum distributions at any age.


   Real World Example  

The Fidelity 500 Index Fund (FXAIX), which seeks to duplicate the performance of the S&P 500, disburses dividend distributions quarterly (in April, July, October, and December).



In 2022, investors received $0.462, $0.577, $0.581, and $0.636 for every share of the fund they owned for April, July, October, and December, respectively. Unless a customer specifies otherwise, Fidelity automatically reinvests these distributions, increasing the number of shares of the fund owned.




What Is a Capital Gains Distribution?
A capital gains distribution is a cash payment made by a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF) to fund owners. If a mutual fund holds a capital asset for more than one year and then sells it, the fund usually passes on the profit to you as a capital gains distribution.




What Is a Deed of Distribution?
A deed of distribution is a method of legally transferring property when the rightful receiver can't be determined from the descendant's will.




What Is a Lump-Sum Distribution?
A lump-sum distribution is a cash disbursement that is paid out all at once, as opposed to being paid out in steady installments. Lump-sum distributions can come from retirement plans, earned commissions, or certain debt instruments.




What Is a Non-Taxable Distribution?
A non-taxable distribution is a payment to its shareholders that is classified as a "return of capital." These distributions aren't paid from the company's earnings and aren't taxed until the investor sells stock in the company.


   The Bottom Line  

In the world of finance, a distribution generally refers to the disbursement of assets from a fund, account, or individual security to an investor.



By understanding the ins and outs of various types of distributions—their purpose, how they're used, and how they work—you won't be left scratching your head when you hear the term thrown around during your investing life.
What Is a Distribution Channel?  

A distribution channel is the network of businesses or intermediaries through which a good or service passes until it reaches the final buyer or the end consumer. Distribution channels can include wholesalers, retailers, distributors, and even the internet.



Distribution channels are part of the downstream process, answering the question "How do we get our product to the consumer?" This is in contrast to the upstream process, also known as the supply chain, which answers the question "Who are our suppliers?"





Key Takeaways


A distribution channel represents a chain of businesses or intermediaries through which the final buyer purchases a good or service.
Distribution channels include wholesalers, retailers, distributors, and the Internet.
In a direct distribution channel, the manufacturer sells directly to the consumer. Indirect channels involve multiple intermediaries before the product ends up in the hands of the consumer.













Jessica Olah / Investopedia


   Understanding Distribution Channels  

A distribution channel is a path by which all goods and services travel to arrive at the intended consumer. Distribution channels can be short or long, and depend on the number of intermediaries required to deliver a product or service.



Increasing the number of ways a consumer can find a good can increase sales but it can also create a complex system that sometimes makes distribution management difficult. Longer distribution channels can also mean less profit for each intermediary along the way.


  Components of a Distribution Channel  

• Producer: Producers combine labor and capital to create goods and services for consumers.



• Agent: Agents commonly act on behalf of the producer to accept payments and transfer the title of the goods and services as it moves through distribution.



• Wholesaler: A person or company that sells large quantities of goods, often at low prices, to retailers.



• Retailer: A person or business that sells goods to the public in small quantities for immediate use or consumption.



• End Consumer: A person who buys a product or service.


   Types of Distribution Channels  
  Direct  

A direct channel allows the consumer to make purchases from the manufacturer. This direct, or short channel, may mean lower costs for consumers because they are buying directly from the manufacturer.


  Indirect  

An indirect channel allows the consumer to buy the goods from a wholesaler or retailer. Indirect channels are typical for goods that are sold in traditional brick-and-mortar stores.


  Hybrid  

Hybrid distribution channels use both direct channels and indirect channels. A product or service manufacturer may use both a retailer to distribute a product or service and may also make sales directly with the consumer.


   Distribution Channel Levels  
  Level 0  

This is a direct-to-consumer model where the producer sells its product directly to the end consumer. Amazon, which uses its platform to sell Kindles to its customers, is an example of a direct model. This is the shortest distribution channel possible, cutting out both the wholesaler and the retailer.


  Level 1  

A producer sells directly to a retailer who sells the product to the end consumer. This level includes only one intermediary. HP or Dell are large enough to sell their computer products directly to reputable retailers such as Best Buy.


  Level 2  

Including two intermediaries, this level is one of the longest because it includes the producer, wholesaler, retailer, and consumer. In the wine and adult beverage industry, a winery cannot sell directly to a retailer. It operates in a multi-tiered system, meaning the law requires the winery to first sell its product to a wholesaler who then sells to a retailer. The retailer then sells the product to the end consumer.


  Level 3  

This level may add the jobber, this level adds the role of the individual who may assemble products from a variety of producers, stores them, sells them to retailers, and acts as a middle-man for wholesalers and retailers.






A distribution channel, also known as placement, can be part of a company's marketing strategy, which also includes the product, promotion, and price.


   Distribution Channels in the Digital Era  

Digital technology has transformed the way businesses, especially small businesses use direct channels of distribution. With increasing consumer demand for online shopping and easy-to-use eCommerce tools, direct selling means more success for businesses.



Rather than having to rely on relationships with retailers to sell their products, software and artificial intelligence (AI) sales technology allows companies to manage sales, and automatically achieve high customer relationship management (CRM).



Online advertising through social networks and search engines targets specific areas or demographics and social media networks are increasingly considered the industry standard and changing marketing strategies. 



If a company continues to use indirect channels of distribution, digital technology also allows them to manage relationships with wholesale and retail partners more efficiently.


   Choosing the Right Distribution Channel  

Not all distribution channels work for all products, so companies need to choose the right one. The channel should align with the firm's overall mission and strategic vision including its sales goals.



The method of distribution should add value to the consumer. Do consumers want to speak to a salesperson? Will they want to handle the product before they make a purchase? Or do they want to purchase it online with no hassles? Answering these questions can help companies determine which channel they choose.



Secondly, the company should consider how quickly it wants its product(s) to reach the buyer. Certain products are best served by a direct distribution channel such as meat or produce, while others may benefit from an indirect channel.



If a company chooses multiple distribution channels, such as selling products online and through a retailer, the channels should not conflict with one another. Companies should strategize so one channel doesn't overpower the other.




What Is a Distribution Channel and What Components Does It Have?
The term “distribution channel” refers to the methods used by a company to deliver its products or services to the end consumer. It often involves a network of intermediary businesses such as manufacturers, wholesalers, and retailers. Selecting and monitoring distribution channels is a key component of managing supply chains.




What Is the Difference Between Direct and Indirect Distribution Channels?
Direct distribution channels are those that allow the manufacturer or service provider to deal directly with its end customer. For example, a company that manufactures clothes and sells them directly to its customers using an e-commerce platform would be utilizing a direct distribution channel. By contrast, if that same company were to rely on a network of wholesalers and retailers to sell its products, then it would be using an indirect distribution channel.




How Is Placement Important in a Distribution Channel?
Placement is the way a company ensures its target market has access to its products or service in the location they would be most likely to look for that product or service. An effective distribution system ensures that products are placed in the right location as needed.


   The Bottom Line  

A distribution channel is the network of businesses or intermediaries through which a good or service passes until it reaches the end consumer. Distribution channels can contain many levels or intermediaries, such as wholesalers or retailers, as products move from manufacturer to consumer. The introduction of eCommerce platforms has streamlined distribution enabling producers to sell directly to consumers.
What Is a Distribution-in-Kind?  

A distribution-in-kind, also referred to as a distribution-in-specie, is a payment made in the form of securities or other property rather than in cash. A distribution-in-kind may be made in several different situations, including the payment of a stock dividend or inheritance, or taking securities out of a tax-deferred account. It can also refer to the transfer of an asset to a beneficiary over the option of liquidating the position and transferring the cash.


   Understanding Distributions-in-Kind  

Investors can invest in a company by buying bonds or stocks. Bonds pay investors a return in the form of interest payments. Stocks pay investors a return in the form of dividends and share price appreciation. A dividend or share buyback is a distribution of cash to investors.



In general, companies that are doing well pay out healthy and growing dividends. These companies also buy back stock. Companies with declining earnings may be forced to buy back stock or pay dividends with borrowed funds. Another alternative is to distribute dividends in kind.





Key Takeaways

Distributions-in-kind are payments made in an alternative format, such as property or stock, instead of cash.Companies and organizations use distributions-in-kind to minimize their tax liabilities and circumvent capital gains tax accruing from an increase in the asset's value.Taxes may be applicable in some instances, such as distribution in kind related to real estate transactions.


   Distributions Are Not Always in Cash  

Not all distributions are made in cash; some are made in kind. The most common form of a distribution-in-kind occurs when a company pays a dividend in stock rather than in cash. A distribution-in-kind may also be employed for tax reasons. In certain situations, receiving appreciated property directly can result in a lower tax bill versus selling the property and receiving the value of the property in cash.



Some funds deliver distributions-in-kind to investors after a certain threshold. If an investor redeems shares in the fund over the threshold, the remainder of the redemption value is paid in kind with shares of the fund. The reason for doing this is to prevent large tax hits in the event of high redemption activity.


   Advantages of Distributions-in-Kind  

In-kind distributions are not just advantageous for the company. Investors in tax-deferred accounts like to receive distributions-in-kind because they help to reduce taxes. People who inherit shares generally receive them in kind for this reason. Investors with individual retirement plans can also take distributions-in-kind—especially for the required minimum distributions (RMDs) they have to take. In fact, distributions-in-kind can be used for an entire RMD. This means people can take the actual stocks and bonds out of the account as a distribution without liquidating them.



Investors who wish to keep fully invested accounts may find this to be a valuable option. Distributions-in-kind are also good for stocks that are undervalued or may go up significantly. This allows the investor to record the profit from share price appreciation as a capital gain rather than ordinary income, which is generally taxed at a higher rate.



In-kind distributions are also a favored method for distributing proceeds in the venture capital and private equity fields. Instead of liquidating holdings and making cash distributions to limited partners, funds hand the investors equivalent securities to avoid capital gains tax on liquidated holdings.


   Distributions-in-Kind in Real Estate and Trusts  

Distributions-in-kind for real estate transactions may not be exempt from capital gains tax. The company or organization making an in-kind distribution of property instead of cash will still have to pay capital gains tax incurred by any appreciation in the property's price.



A similar case exists for transfers made to estates or trusts by a settlor. Such transfers of assets are taxable, and so the settlor is required to report capital gains or losses (and the tax due, if any) on their income tax returns.
What Is Distribution Management?  

Distribution management refers to the process of overseeing the movement of goods from supplier or manufacturer to point of sale. It is an overarching term that refers to numerous activities and processes such as packaging, inventory, warehousing, supply chain, and logistics.



Distribution management is an important part of the business cycle for distributors and wholesalers. The profit margins of businesses depend on how quickly they can turn over their goods. The more they sell, the more they earn, which means a better future for the business. Having a successful distribution management system is also important for businesses to remain competitive and to keep customers happy.





Key Takeaways

Distribution management manages the supply chain for a firm, from vendors and suppliers to manufacturer to point of sale, including packaging, inventory, warehousing, and logistics.Adopting a distribution management strategy is important for a company's financial success and corporate longevity.Distribution management helps keep things organized and keeps customers satisfied.


   Understanding Distribution Management  

Distribution management is critical to a company's ability to successfully attract customers and operate profitably. Executing it successfully requires effective management of the entire distribution process. The larger a corporation, or the greater the number of supply points a company has, the more it will need to rely on automation to effectively manage the distribution process.



Modern distribution management encompasses more than just moving products from point A to point B. It also involves gathering and sharing relevant information that can be used to identify key opportunities for growth and competitiveness in the market. Most progressive companies now use their distribution forces to obtain market intelligence which is vital in assessing their competitive position.



There are basically two types of distribution: commercial distribution (commonly known as sales distribution) and physical distribution (better known as logistics). Distribution involves diverse functions such as customer service, shipping, warehousing, inventory control, private trucking-fleet operations, packaging, receiving, materials handling, along with plant, warehouse, store location planning, and the integration of information.



The goal is to achieve ultimate efficiency in delivering raw materials and parts, both partially and completely finished products to the right place and time in the proper condition. Physical distribution planning should align with the overall channel strategy.


   Advantages of a Distribution Management Strategy  

Aside from keeping profits up, there are many reasons a company may want to use a distribution management strategy. First, it keeps things organized. If there was no proper management system in place, retailers would be forced to hold stock in their own locations—a bad idea, especially if the seller lacks proper storage space.



A distribution management system also makes things easier for the consumer. It allows them to visit one location for a variety of different products. If the system didn't exist, consumers would have to visit multiple locations just to get what they need.



Putting a proper distribution management system in place also alleviates any potential for errors in delivery, as well as the times products need to be delivered.






Businesses can adopt distribution management strategies through electronic platforms, which can help simplify the process and boost product sales.


   Distribution Management as a Marketing Function  

The fundamental idea of distribution management as a marketing function is that the management of distribution happens in an ecosystem that also involves the consideration of the following:



Product: Not always a tangible object, product can also refer to an idea, music, or information.Price: This refers to the value of a good or service for both the seller and the buyer, which can involve both tangible and intangible factors, such as list price, discounts, financing, and likely response of customers and competitors.Promotion: This is any communication used by a seller to inform, persuade, and/or remind buyers and potential buyers about the seller’s goods, services, image, ideas, and the impact it has on society.Placement: This refers to the process that ensures the availability, accessibility, and visibility of products to ultimate consumers or business users in the target channels or customers where they prefer to buy.



Effective distribution management involves selling your product while assuring sufficient stocks in channels while managing promotions in those channels and their varying requirements. It also involves making sure a supply chain is efficient enough that distribution costs are low enough to allow a product to be sold at the right price, thus supporting your marketing strategy and maximizing profit.




How Does Distribution Management Impact Business?
Distribution management is a key leg in the business cycle for both distributors and wholesalers, with company sales and ongoing profitability impacted by how quickly and efficiently a company can sell and distribute their products.




What Activities Occur During Distribution Management?
Distribution management involves moving finished goods from a manufacturer or supplier to the so-called end user. The process includes warehousing, inventory management, packing, shipping, and delivery.




What Are the Main Distribution Channels?
Distribution channels are the intermediaries through which goods or services pass on their way to the final buyer or consumer. The main channels include wholesalers, retailers, distributors, and in some cases, the internet.
What Is a Distribution Network?  

In a supply chain, a distribution network is an interconnected group of storage facilities and transportation systems that receive inventories of goods and then deliver them to customers. It is an intermediate point to get products from the manufacturer to the end customer, either directly or through a retail network. A fast and reliable distribution network is essential in today's instant gratification society of consumers.





Key Takeaways

In a supply chain, a distribution network is an interconnected group of storage facilities and transportation systems that receive inventories of goods and then deliver them to customers.It is an intermediate point to get products from the manufacturer to the end customer, either directly or through a retail network.A fast and reliable distribution network is essential in today's instant gratification society of consumers.Location to the customer and infrastructure quality are two of the most important aspects of a distribution network.There are many types of distribution networks, such as a hub-and-spoke or decentralized, that work best for different types of products.


   Understanding a Distribution Network  

Developing an efficient distribution network is one of the most critical aspects of the success of a company. It is a component of strategic planning that allows a company's products to reach customers quickly and efficiently while at the same time keeping costs low for the company so that they may realize larger profit margins.



The supply chain for goods can involve a far-reaching distribution network depending on the product and where the end customers are located. A manufacturer may have a distribution network to serve wholesalers, who in turn have their own network to ship to distribution networks operated by retailers, who at the last link of the supply chain would sell the goods in their retail stores.



Alternatively, a simplified supply chain could involve a manufacturer shipping finished products to its distribution network and then directly to end consumers.



Location (proximity to the customer) and infrastructure quality are two important attributes of a distribution network. Additionally, the storage, handling, and transportation functions at a distribution site are set up to suit the particular needs of the company to serve its customer base in a geographic area. There can be a high level of sophistication at a single site—and by extension, the entire distribution network—to optimally process order flow of finished goods, whether a handful of large items such as farm tractors or thousands of SKUs for a retail chain.



For the entire distribution network, a company must plan out needs for equipment, workers, information technology systems, and transportation fleets. The company must determine whether a hub-and-spoke distribution network is right for its business or a decentralized network.



Distribution networks come at the post-manufacturing part of a supply chain, the flow of goods and services, and include all stages that deliver final products into the hands of consumers.


   Real World Examples  

Establishing an effective distribution network requires a studied approach because it is increasingly considered a critical asset in this new age of e-commerce. Walmart (WMT), for example, with 190 distribution facilities as of 2020, is allocating more capital to build out additional fulfillment centers for its distribution network as it evolves with the competitive demands of the market.



As of July 2020, Walmart's distribution network, including its retail stores, is 924 million square feet. It is so large, that in comparison, the island of Manhattan is 661 million square feet. For even more efficiency, Walmart divides its distribution network into specific categories. For example, it has regional distribution centers, food distribution centers, fashion distribution centers, and more. This ensures that each distribution center is focused on one product area and is therefore perfectly designed to meet the needs of delivering that product quickly and at the lowest cost.



Amazon (AMZN) has also increased its distribution network, building out enormous robotically-controlled warehouses across the world and operating its own freight trucking fleets and cargo planes. Amazon has even discussed using autonomous drones to deliver goods to customers, which would be an innovation in the distribution of goods.



Amazon is a massive global retailer and, therefore, its distribution network spans many countries. As of July 2020, Amazon has 1,215 distribution facilities in 21 countries. Amazon primarily breaks its distribution network down into prime hubs, fulfillment centers, inbounds and outbound sortation centers, and delivery stations.
What Is a Distribution Waterfall?  

A distribution waterfall is a way to allocate investment returns or capital gains among participants of a group or pooled investment. Commonly associated with private equity funds, the distribution waterfall defines the pecking order in which distributions are allocated to limited and general partners.



Usually, the general partners receive a disproportionately larger share of the total profits relative to their initial investment once the allocation process is complete. This is done to incentivize the fund's general partner to maximize profitability for its investors.





Key Takeaways

A distribution waterfall spells out the order in which gains from a pooled investment are allocated between investors in the pool.It is often used in the context of hedge funds or private equity investment funds.Generally, there are four tiers in a distribution waterfall schedule: return of capital; preferred return; the catch-up tranche; and carried interest.There are two common types of waterfall structures: American, which favors the investment manager; and European, which is more investor-friendly.


   Understanding Distribution Waterfalls  

A distribution waterfall describes the method by which capital is distributed to a fund's various investors as underlying investments are sold for gains. Essentially, the total capital gains earned are distributed according to a cascading structure made up of sequential tiers, hence the reference to a waterfall. When one tier's allocation requirements are fully satisfied, the excess funds are then subject to the allocation requirements of the next tier, and so on.



Though waterfall schedules may be customized, generally the four tiers in a distribution waterfall are:



Return of capital (ROC) - 100% of distributions go to the investors until they recover all of their initial capital contributions.
Preferred return - 100% of further distributions go to investors until they receive the preferred return on their investment. Usually, the preferred rate of return for this tier is approximately 7% to 9%.
Catch-up tranche - 100% of the distributions go to the sponsor of the fund until it receives a certain percentage of profits.
Carried interest - A stated percentage of distributions that the sponsor receives. The stated percentage in the fourth tier must match the stated percentage in the third tier.



Hurdle rates for the schedule also may be tiered, depending on the total amount of carried interest of the general partners. Typically, the more carried interest, the higher the hurdle rate. Additionally, a feature called "clawback" is frequently included in the fund prospectus and is meant to protect investors from paying more incentive fees than required. In case of such an occurrence, the manager is obligated to pay back the excess fees.


   American vs. European Waterfall Structures  

Investment waterfall mechanics are detailed in the distribution section of the private placement memorandum (PPM). There are two common types of waterfall structures - American, which favors the general partner, and European, which is more investor-friendly.



An American-style distribution schedule is applied on a deal-by-deal basis, and not at the fund level. The American schedule spreads the total risk over all the deals and is more beneficial to the general partners of the fund. This structure allows for managers to get paid prior to investors receiving all their invested capital and preferred return, though the investor is still entitled to these.
A European-style distribution (also called Global-style) schedule is applied at an aggregate fund level. With this schedule, all distributions will go to investors, while the manager will not participate in any profits until the investor’s capital and preferred return have been fully satisfied. A drawback is that the majority of the manager’s profits may not be realized for several years after the initial investment.




Why Is It Called a Distribution Waterfall?
Imagine a waterfall cascading down into a series of vertically-aligned buckets. The water represents money, and the buckets represent investors, partners, or stakeholders. The water fills the first bucket first. The second bucket will fill only after the first is completely full and spills over. As water flows, more buckets are filled in the order in which they appear.




What's the Key Difference Between an American and European Distribution Waterfall?
In the European-style distribution waterfall, investors are given precedent over fund managers, whereas managers may be paid ahead of investors using the American-style waterfall.




How Do Private Equity and Hedge Fund Managers Get Paid?
Often, private equity and hedge funds will feature a two-and-twenty payment scheme. Under this, the fund managers retain 2% of assets under management (AUM) each year, plus 20% of any profits returned above some hurdle rate or benchmark.
What is a Distribution Yield?  

A distribution yield is the measurement of cash flow paid by an exchange-traded fund (ETF), real estate investment trust, or another type of income-paying vehicle. Rather than calculating the yield based on an aggregate of distributions, the most recent distribution is annualized and divided by the net asset value (NAV) of the security at the time of the payment.


   Understanding Distribution Yield  

Distribution yields can be used as a metric for cash flow comparisons for annuity and fixed income investments, but basing the calculation on a single payment can distort the actual returns paid over longer periods.



The calculation for distribution yields employs the most recent distribution, which may be interest, a special dividend, or a capital gain, and multiplies the payment by 12 to get an annualized total. The annualized total is then divided by the net asset value (NAV) to determine the distribution yield.



While this metric is often used to compare fixed income investments, the single-payment calculation method can potentially extrapolate larger or smaller-than-normal payments into distribution yields that do not reflect the actual payments made over the trailing 12 months or another representative period of time.





Key Takeaways

Distribution yield is the calculation of cash flow for an investment vehicle such as an ETF or Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT).They provide a snapshot of yield available to investors from the given financial instrument. But their calculation can be skewed by special dividends or interest payments.


   Calculating Distribution Yields  

The distribution of one-time special dividends can skew distribution yields higher than actual returns. When a non-recurring dividend is paid by a company in a fund’s portfolio, the payment is included with the recurring dividends for that month. A yield calculated on a payment including a special dividend may reflect a larger distribution yield than is actually being paid by the fund.



Yield calculations based on distributions composed of interest and recurring dividends are generally more accurate than those using one-time or infrequent payments. The exclusion of non-recurring payments, however, can result in a distribution yield lower than the actual payouts during the preceding year.



Distribution yields generally provide a snapshot of income payments for investors, but the variables posed by capital gains distributions and special dividends can skew returns. To determine true yield, investors can total all distributions over the preceding 12 months and divide the sum by the NAV at that time.


   Capital Gains and Distribution Yield  

Mutual funds and ETFs usually issue capital gains distributions on an annual basis. These distributions represent the net trading profits realized during the year, which are divided into long-term and short-term gains. A distribution yield calculated using either of these payments has the potential to reflect an inaccurate annualized return.



For example, calculating the yield based on a long-term capital gain distribution greater than monthly interest payments results in a distribution yield higher than the amount paid to investors over the preceding year. On the other hand, a calculation using a capital gains distribution less than monthly interest payments results in a lower-than-actual distribution yield.


   SEC Yield Vs. Distribution Yield  

Investors often consider and compare the SEC yield, also known as the 30-day yield, with distribution yield while making an investment decision. While both estimates are estimates of bond returns, they are calculated differently. The SEC yield is an annualized figure based on returns over the most recent 30-day period. As outlined above, distribution yields are calculated taking into account returns over a 12-month period.



Opinions between analysts and investors are split over which yield is better to evaluate investment returns. Proponents of the SEC yield point to the fact that calculations for distribution yield vary between bond funds, making it an unreliable indicator of performance. Meanwhile, calculations for the SEC yield are standardized and determined by a centralized agency. Because it is based on yields from trailing periods, the distribution yield is also considered to be an inaccurate representation of current economic circumstances. According to Vanguard, the SEC yield approximates after-expenses yield an investor would receive yearly assuming bonds are held till maturity and income is reinvested.



But bonds are rarely held till maturity by a majority of investors. For the most part, they are traded in the open market where conditions are constantly in a state of flux due to external circumstances. In a 2008 note discussing the importance of bond yields, research firm Morningstar made the case that 12-month yields offer a "more accurate picture" than the SEC yield because it accounts for 12 distinct dividend payments reflecting the bond's performance under a variety of different circumstances.


   Example of Distribution Yield  

Suppose a fund is priced at $20 per share and collects 8 cents in interest payments during a month. The interest is multiplied by 12 for an annualized total of 96 cents. Dividing 96 cents by $20 gives a distribution yield of 4.8%.
What is Divergence?  

Divergence is when the price of an asset is moving in the opposite direction of a technical indicator, such as an oscillator, or is moving contrary to other data. Divergence warns that the current price trend may be weakening, and in some cases may lead to the price changing direction.



There is positive and negative divergence. Positive divergence indicates a move higher in the price of the asset is possible. Negative divergence signals that a move lower in the asset is possible.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021







Divergence can occur between the price of an asset and almost any technical or fundamental indicator or data. Though, divergence is typically used by technical traders when the price is moving in the opposite direction of a technical indicator.
Positive divergence signals price could start moving higher soon. It occurs when the price is moving lower but a technical indicator is moving higher or showing bullish signals.
Negative divergence points to lower prices in the future. It occurs when the price is moving higher but a technical indicator is moving lower or showing bearish signals.
Divergence isn't to be relied on exclusively, as it doesn't provide timely trade signals. Divergence can last a long time without a price reversal occurring.
Divergence is not present for all major price reversals, it is only present on some.







   What Does Divergence Tell You  

Divergence in technical analysis may signal a major positive or negative price move. A positive divergence occurs when the price of an asset makes a new low while an indicator, such as money flow, starts to climb. Conversely, a negative divergence is when the price makes a new high but the indicator being analyzed makes a lower high.



Traders use divergence to assess the underlying momentum in the price of an asset, and for assessing the likelihood of a price reversal. For example, investors can plot oscillators, like the Relative Strength Index (RSI), on a price chart. If the stock is rising and making new highs, ideally the RSI is reaching new highs as well. If the stock is making new highs, but the RSI starts making lower highs, this warns the price uptrend may be weakening. This is negative divergence. The trader can then determine if they want to exit the position or set a stop loss in case the price starts to decline.



Positive divergence is the opposite situation. Imagine the price of a stock is making new lows while the RSI makes higher lows with each swing in the stock price. Investors may conclude that the lower lows in the stock price are losing their downward momentum and a trend reversal may soon follow.



Divergence is one of the common uses of many technical indicators, primarily the oscillators.


   The Difference Between Divergence and Confirmation  

Divergence is when the price and indicator are telling the trader different things. Confirmation is when the indicator and price, or multiple indicators, are telling the trader the same thing. Ideally, traders want confirmation to enter trades and while in trades. If the price is moving up, they want their indicators to signal that the price move is likely to continue.


   Limitations of Using Divergence  

As is true with all forms of technical analysis, investors should use a combination of indicators and analysis techniques to confirm a trend reversal before acting on divergence alone. Divergence will not be present for all price reversals, therefore, some other form of risk control or analysis needs to be used in conjunction with divergence.



Also, when divergence does occur, it doesn't mean the price will reverse or that a reversal will occur soon. Divergence can last a long time, so acting on it alone could be mean substantial losses if the price doesn't react as expected.
What Is Diversification?  

Diversification is a risk management strategy that creates a mix of various investments within a portfolio. A diversified portfolio contains a mix of distinct asset types and investment vehicles in an attempt to limit exposure to any single asset or risk.



The rationale behind this technique is that a portfolio constructed of different kinds of assets will, on average, yield higher long-term returns and lower the risk of any individual holding or security.





Key Takeaways

Diversification is a strategy that mixes a wide variety of investments within a portfolio in an attempt to reduce portfolio risk.Diversification is most often done by investing in different asset classes such as stocks, bonds, real estate, or cryptocurrency.Diversification can also be achieved by purchasing investments in different countries, industries, sizes of companies, or term lengths for income-generating investments.The quality of diversification in a portfolio is most often measured by analyzing the correlation coefficient of pairs of assets.Investors can diversify on their own by investing in select investments or can hold diversified funds.


   Understanding Diversification  

Studies and mathematical models have shown that maintaining a well-diversified portfolio of 25 to 30 stocks yields the most cost-effective level of risk reduction. Investing in more securities generates further diversification benefits, but it does so at a substantially diminishing rate of effectiveness.



Diversification strives to smooth out unsystematic risk events in a portfolio, so the positive performance of some investments neutralizes the negative performance of others. The benefits of diversification hold only if the securities in the portfolio are not perfectly correlated—that is, they respond differently, often in opposing ways, to market influences.


   Diversification Strategies  

As investors consider ways to diversify their holdings, there are dozens of strategies to implement. Many of the methods below can be combined to enhance the level of diversification within a single portfolio.


  Asset Classes  

Fund managers and investors often diversify their investments across asset classes and determine what percentages of the portfolio to allocate to each. Each asset class has a different, unique set of risks and opportunities. Classes can include:



Stocks: Shares or equity in a publicly traded company
Bonds: Government and corporate fixed-income debt instruments
Real estate: Land, buildings, natural resources, agriculture, livestock, and water and mineral deposits
Exchange-traded funds (ETFs): A marketable basket of securities that follow an index, commodity, or sector
Commodities: Basic goods necessary for the production of other products or services
Cash and short-term cash-equivalents (CCE): Treasury bills, certificate of deposit (CD), money market vehicles, and other short-term, low-risk investments



The theory holds that what may negatively impact one asset class may benefit another. For example, rising interest rates usually negatively impact bond prices as yield must increase to make fixed income securities more attractive. On the other hand, rising interest rates may result in increases in rent for real estate or increases in prices for commodities.





Tip

Order your copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine for more wealth-building advice.


  Industries/Sectors  

There are tremendous differences in the way different industries or sectors operate. As investors diversify across various industries, they become less likely to be impacted by sector-specific risk.



For example, consider the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022. This legislation impacts many industries, though some companies are more affected than others. Semiconductor manufacturers will be largely impacted, while the financial services sector might feel smaller, residual impacts.



Investors can diversify across industries by coupling investments that may counterbalance different businesses. For example, consider two major means of entertainment: travel and digital streaming. Investors hoping to hedge against the risk of future major pandemic impacts may invest in digital streaming platforms (positively impacted by more shutdowns). At the same time, they may consider simultaneously investing in airlines (positively impacted by fewer shutdowns). In theory, these two unrelated industries may minimize overall portfolio risk.






How many stocks do you need to own to be properly diversified? A study published in the Journal of Risk and Financial Management found there are simply too many variables to consider, and "an optimal number of stocks that constitute a well-diversified portfolio does not exist."


  Corporate Lifecycle Stages (Growth vs. Value)  

Public equities tend to be broken into two categories: growth stocks and value stocks. Growth stocks are stocks in companies that are expected to experience profit or revenue growth greater than the industry average. Value stocks are stocks in companies that appear to be trading at a discount based on the current fundamentals of a company.



Growth stocks tend to be more risky as the expected growth of a company may not materialize. For example, if the Federal Reserve constricts monetary policy, less capital is usually available (or it is more expensive to borrow), creating a more difficult scenario for growth companies. However, growth companies may tap into seemingly limitless potential and exceed expectations, generating even greater returns than expected.



On the other hand, value stocks tend to be more established, stable companies. While these companies may have already experienced most of their potential, they usually carry less risk. By diversifying into both, an investor would capitalize on the future potential of some companies while also recognizing the existing benefits of others.


  Market Capitalizations (Large vs. Small)  

Investors may want to consider investing across different securities based on the underlying market capitalization of the asset or company. Consider the vast operational differences between Apple and Newell Brands Inc. In July 2023, both companies were in the S&P 500, with Apple representing 7.6% of the index and Newell Brands representing 0.0065%.



Each company will have a considerably different approach to raising capital, introducing new products to the market, brand recognition, and growth potential. Lower cap stocks have more room to grow, though higher cap stocks tend to be safer investments.


  Risk Profiles  

Across almost every asset class, investors can choose the underlying risk profile of the security. For example, consider fixed-income securities. An investor can choose to buy bonds from the top-rated governments in the world or from nearly defunct private companies raising emergency funds. There are considerable differences between several 10-year bonds based on the issuer, their credit rating, future operational outlook, and existing level of debt.



The same can be said for other types of investments. Real estate development projects with more risk may carry greater upside than established operating properties. Meanwhile, cryptocurrencies with longer histories and greater adoption, such as Bitcoin, carry less risk relative to smaller market cap coins or tokens.






Diversification may not be the best strategy for investors wanting to maximize their returns. Consider "YOLO" (you only live once) strategies where 100% of capital is placed in a high-risk investment. Though there is a higher probability of making life-changing money, there is also the highest probability of losing it due to poor diversification.


  Maturity Lengths  

Specific to fixed-income securities such as bonds, different term lengths impact risk profiles. Generally, the longer the maturity, the higher the risk of fluctuations in the bond's prices due to changes in interest rates. Short-term bonds tend to offer lower interest rates; however, they also tend to be less impacted by uncertainty in future yield curves. Investors more comfortable with risk may consider adding longer term bonds that tend to pay higher degrees of interest.



Maturity length is also prevalent in other asset classes. Consider the difference between short-term lease agreements for residential properties (i.e., up to one year) and long-term lease agreements for commercial properties (i.e., sometimes five years or greater). Though there is more security in collecting rent revenue by locking into a long-term agreement, investors sacrifice flexibility to increase prices or change tenants.


  Physical Locations (Foreign vs. Domestic)  

Investors can reap further diversification benefits by investing in foreign securities. For example, forces depressing the U.S. economy may not affect Japan's economy in the same way. Therefore, holding Japanese stocks gives an investor a small cushion of protection against losses during an American economic downturn.



Alternatively, there may be a greater potential upside (with associated higher degrees of risk) when diversifying across developed and emerging countries. Consider Pakistan's current classification as a frontier market participant (recently downgraded from an emerging market participant). Investors willing to take on higher levels of risk may want to consider the higher growth potential of smaller yet-to-be-fully established markets such as Pakistan.


  Tangibility  

Financial instruments such as stocks and bonds are intangible investments; they can not be physically touched or felt. On the other hand, tangible investments such as land, real estate, farmland, precious metals, or commodities can be touched and have real-world applications. These real assets have different investment profiles as they can be consumed, rented, developed, or treated differently than intangible or digital assets.



There are also unique risks specific to tangible assets. Real property can be vandalized, physically stolen, damaged by natural conditions, or become obsolete. Real assets may also require storage, insurance, or security costs to carry. Though the revenue stream differs from financial instruments, the input costs to protect tangible assets are also different.


   Diversification Across Platforms  

Regardless of how an investor considers building their portfolio, another aspect of diversification relates to how those assets are held. Though this is not an implication of the investment's risk, it is an additional risk worth considering as it may be diversifiable.



For example, consider an individual with $400,000 of U.S. currency. In all three of the situations below, the investor has the same asset allocation. However, their risk profile is different:



The individual may deposit $200,000 at one bank and $200,000 at a second bank. Both deposits are under the FDIC insurance limit per bank and are fully insured.
The individual may deposit $400,000 at a single bank. Only a portion of the deposit is covered by insurance. In addition, should that single bank experience a bank run, the individual may not have immediate access to cash.
The individual may physically store $400,000 of cash in their home. Though immediately accessible, the individual will not yield any interest or growth on their cash. In addition, the individual may lose capital in the event of theft, fire, or by misplacing it.



The same concept above relates to almost every asset class. For example, Celsius Network filed for bankruptcy in July 2022. Investors holding cryptocurrency with the exchange experienced the inability to withdraw or transfer funds. Had investors diversified across platforms, the risk of loss would have been spread across different exchanges.






Consider different strategies to offset technology risk and physical risk. For example, owning physical gold bars and gold ETFs diversifies your portfolio across various risks. If your physical holdings were to be stolen, at least 100% of your gold ownership was not lost.


   Diversification and Retail Investors  

Time and budget constraints can make it difficult for noninstitutional investors—i.e., individuals—to create an adequately diversified portfolio. This challenge is a key to why mutual funds are so popular with retail investors. Buying shares in a mutual fund offers an inexpensive way to diversify investments.



While mutual funds provide diversification across various asset classes, exchange-traded funds (ETFs) afford investor access to narrow markets, such as commodities and international plays, that would ordinarily be difficult to access. An individual with a $100,000 portfolio can spread the investment among ETFs with no overlap.



There are several reasons why this is advantageous to investors. First, it may be too costly for retail investors to buy securities using different market orders. In addition, investors must then track their portfolio's weight to ensure proper diversification. Though an investor sacrifices a say in all of the underlying companies being invested in, they simply choose an easier investment approach that prioritizes minimizing risk.


   Pros and Cons of Diversification  

The primary purpose of diversification is to mitigate risk. By spreading your investment across different asset classes, industries, or maturities, you are less likely to experience market shocks that impact every single one of your investments the same.



There are other benefits to be had as well. Some investors may find diversification makes investing more fun as it encourages exploring different unique investments. Diversification may also increase the chance of hitting positive news. Instead of hoping for favorable news specific to one company, positive news impacting one of dozens of companies may benefit your portfolio.



However, there are drawbacks to diversification. The more holdings a portfolio has, the more time-consuming it can be to manage—and the more expensive, since buying and selling many different holdings incurs more transaction fees and brokerage commissions. More fundamentally, diversification's spreading-out strategy works both ways, lessening the risk and the reward.



For instance, imagine you've invested $120,000 equally among six stocks, and one stock doubles in value. Your original $20,000 stake is now worth $40,000. You've made a lot, sure, but not as much as if your entire $120,000 had been invested in that one company. By protecting you on the downside, diversification limits you on the upside—at least in the short term.





Pros

Reduces portfolio risk
Hedges against market volatility
Offers potentially higher returns long-term
May be more enjoyable for investors to research new investments



Cons

Limits gains short-term
Time-consuming to manage
Incurs more transaction fees, commissions
May be overwhelming for newer, unexperienced investors





   Diversifiable vs. Non-Diversifiable Risk  

The idea behind diversification is to minimize (or even eliminate) risk within a portfolio. However, there are certain types of risks you can diversify away, and certain types of risks exist regardless of how you diversify. These types of risks are called unsystematic and systematic risks.



Consider the impact of COVID-19. Due to the global health crisis, many businesses stopped operating. Employees across many industries were laid off, and consumer spending across all sectors declined. On one hand, the economic slowdown negatively impacted almost every sector. On the other, nearly every sector then benefited from government intervention and monetary stimulus. The impact of COVID-19 on financial markets was systematic.



In general, diversification aims to reduce unsystematic risk. These are the risks specific to an investment that are unique to that holding. Examples of diversifiable, non-systematic risks include:



Business risk: The risk related to a specific company based on the nature of its company and what it does in the market.Financial risk: The risks related to a specific company or organization's financial health, liquidity, and long-term solvency.Operational risk: The risk related to breakdowns in manufacturing or goods distribution processes.Regulatory risk: The risk that legislation may adversely impact the asset.



Through diversification, investors strive to reduce the risks above, which are controllable based on the investments held.


   Measuring Diversification  

It can become complex and cumbersome to measure how diversified a portfolio is. In reality, it is impossible to calculate the actual degree of diversification; there are simply too many variables to consider across too many assets to truly quantify a single measure of diversification. Still, analysts and portfolio managers use several measurements to get a rough idea of how diversified a portfolio is.


  Correlation Coefficient  

A correlation coefficient is a statistical measurement that compares the relationship between two variables. This statistical calculation tracks the movement of two assets and whether the assets tend to move in the same direction. The correlation coefficient result varies from -1 to 1, with interpretations ranging from:



Closer to -1: There is strong diversification between the two assets, as the investments move in opposite directions. There is a strong negative correlation between the two variables being analyzed.Closer to 0: There is moderate diversification between the two assets, as the investments have no correlation. The assets sometimes move together, while other times, they don't.Closer to 1: There is a strong lack of diversification between the two assets, as the investments move in the same direction. There is a strong positive correlation between the two variables being analyzed.


  Standard Deviation  

Standard deviation (SD) measures how often and far an outcome occurs away from the mean. For investments, standard deviation measures how far away from an asset's average return other returns fall. Analysts use SD to estimate risk based on return frequency.



For example, imagine two investments, each with an average annual return of 5%. One has a high standard deviation, which means the investment returns can vary greatly. The other investment has a low standard deviation, meaning its returns have been closer to 5%. The higher the standard deviation, the more risk there is—but there is a chance for higher returns.



A portfolio full of investments with high standard deviations may have higher earning potential. However, these assets may be more likely to experience similar risks across asset classes.


  Smart Beta  

Smart beta strategies offer diversification by tracking underlying indices but do not necessarily weigh stocks according to their market cap. ETF managers further screen equity issues on fundamentals and rebalance portfolios according to objective analysis, not just company size. While smart beta portfolios are unmanaged, the primary goal becomes the outperformance of the index itself.


  Count/Weighting  

In its most basic form, a portfolio's diversification can be measured by counting the number of assets or determining the weight of each asset. When counting the number of assets, consider the number of each type for the strategies above. For example, an investor can count that of the 20 equities they hold, 15 are in the technology sector.



Alternatively, investors can measure diversification by allocating percentages to what they are invested in. So, in this view, the investor with 15 equities in tech has 75% of their equity holdings in a single industry.



On a broader portfolio basis, investors more often compare equity, bonds, and alternative assets to create their diversification targets. For example, traditional portfolios tended to skew towards 60% equities and 40% bonds—though some strategies call for different diversification based on age. Other theories claim that holding alternative assets has added benefits (for example, 60% equities, 20% bonds, and 20% alternatives).


   Example of Diversification  

Imagine an aggressive investor, who can assume a higher risk level, wishes to construct a portfolio composed of Japanese equities, Australian bonds, and cotton futures. They could purchase stakes in the iShares MSCI Japan ETF, the Vanguard Australian Government Bond Index ETF, and the iPath Bloomberg Cotton Subindex Total Return ETN.



With this mix of ETF shares, due to the specific qualities of the targeted asset classes and the transparency of the holdings, the investor ensures true diversification in their holdings. Also, with different correlations, or responses to outside forces, among the securities, they can slightly lessen their risk exposure.




What Are the Benefits of Diversification?
In theory, holding investments that are different from each other reduces the overall risk of the assets you're invested in. If something bad happens to one investment, you're more likely to have assets that are not impacted if you were diversified. Diversification may result in a larger profit if you are extended into asset classes you wouldn't otherwise have invested in. Also, some investors find diversification more enjoyable to pursue as they research new companies, explore different asset classes, and own different types of investments.




What Are the Methods of Diversification?
There are many different ways to diversify; the primary method of diversification is to buy different types of asset classes. For example, instead of putting your entire portfolio into public stock, you may consider buying some bonds to offset some market risk of stocks.In addition to investing in different asset classes, you can diversify into different industries, geographical locations, term lengths, or market caps. The primary goal of diversification is to invest in a broad range of assets that face different risks.




Is Diversification a Good Strategy?
For investors seeking to minimize risk, diversification is a strong strategy. That said, diversification may minimize returns, as the goal of diversification is to reduce the risk within a portfolio. By reducing risk, an investor is willing to take less profit in exchange for the preservation of capital.


   The Bottom Line  

Diversification is a very important concept in financial planning and investment management. It is the idea that by investing in different things, the overall risk of your portfolio is lower.



Instead of putting all your money into a single asset, spreading your wealth across different assets puts you at less risk of losing capital. With the ease of transacting and investing online, it is now incredibly easy to diversify your portfolio through different asset classes and other strategies.
What Is a Diversified Company?  

A diversified company is a type of company that has multiple unrelated businesses or products. Unrelated businesses are those that:



Require unique management expertiseHave different end customersProduce different products or provide different services



One of the benefits of being a diversified company is that it buffers a business from dramatic fluctuations in any one industry sector. However, this model is also less likely to enable stockholders to realize significant gains or losses because it is not singularly focused on one business.






The best management teams can balance the alluring desires of business diversification with the practical pitfalls of growth and the challenges it brings with it.


   How a Diversified Company Works  

Companies may become diversified by entering into new businesses on its own by merging with another company or by acquiring a company operating in another field or service sector. One of the challenges facing diversified companies is the need to maintain a strong strategic focus to produce solid financial returns for shareholders instead of diluting corporate value through ill-conceived acquisitions or expansions.


  Conglomerates  

One common form of a diversified company is the conglomerate. Conglomerates are large companies that are made up of independent entities that operate in multiple industries. Many conglomerates are multinationals and multi-industry corporations.



Every one of a conglomerate's subsidiary businesses runs independently of the other business divisions, but the subsidiaries' management report to the senior management of the parent company.



Taking part in many different businesses help a conglomerate's parent company cut back the risks from being in a single market. Doing so also helps the parent lower costs and use fewer resources. But there are times when a company grows too big that it loses efficiency. In order to deal with this, the conglomerate may divest.





Key Takeaways

A diversified company owns or operates in several unrelated business segments.Companies may become diversified by entering into new businesses on its own by merging with another company or by acquiring a company operating in another field or service sector.Conglomerates are one common form of a diversified company.Diversified companies come with their own specific benefits and limitations.


   Diversified Companies in Practice  

Some of the historically best-known diversified companies are General Electric, 3M, Sara Lee, and Motorola. European diversified companies include Siemens and Bayer, while diversified Asian companies include Hitachi, Toshiba, and Sanyo Electric.



The general idea behind "diversifying" is the spread or smoothly of financial, operational, or geographic risk concentrations. Financial markets generally focus on two sources of risk: unique or firm-specific risk and the other, systemic or market risk. According to capital market theory, only market risk is rewarded, because a rational investor always has the opportunity to diversify, thus eliminating unique or idiosyncratic risk.



Knowing investors vary capital costs based on risk-return profiles, businesses often use a strategy to diversify themselves from within. Critics can point to entities growing for the sake of growth under the guise of diversification. Bigger businesses generally pay executives more, enjoy more press, and can fall prey to entrenchment and status quo. Whereas one observer might see diversification; another may see bloat.
What Is a Divestiture?  

A divestiture is the partial or full disposal of a business unit through sale, exchange, closure, or bankruptcy. A divestiture most commonly results from a management decision to cease operating a business unit because it is not part of a company's core competency.



A divestiture may also occur if a business unit is deemed to be redundant after a merger or acquisition, if the disposal of a unit increases the sale value of the firm, or if a court requires the sale of a business unit to improve market competition.





Key Takeaways

A divestiture is when a company or government disposes of all or some of its assets by selling, exchanging, closing them down, or through bankruptcy.As companies grow, they may become involved in too many business lines, so divestiture is the way to stay focused and remain profitable.Divestiture allows companies to cut costs, repay their debts, focus on their core businesses, and enhance shareholder value.


   Understanding Divestitures  

A divestiture is the disposition or sale of an asset by a company as a way to manage its portfolio of assets. As companies grow, they may find they're in too many lines of business and must close some operational units to focus on more profitable lines. Many conglomerates face this problem.



Companies may also sell off business lines if they are under financial duress. For example, an automobile manufacturer that sees a significant and prolonged drop in competitiveness may sell off its financing division to pay for the development of a new line of vehicles.



Divested business units may be spun off into their own companies. Companies may be required to divest some of their assets as part of the terms of a merger or acquisition. Governments may divest some of their interests or property—called privatization—to raise money to pay off debt or give the private sector a chance to profit.



By divesting some of its assets, a company may be able to cut its costs, repay its outstanding debt, reinvest, focus on its core business(es), and streamline its operations. This, in turn, can enhance shareholder value. Large companies experiencing unstable market conditions and competitive pressures may divest part of their business.


   Divesting Assets  

There are many different reasons why a company may decide to sell off or divest itself of some of its assets. Here are some of the most common ones:



Bankruptcy: Companies that are going through bankruptcy will need to sell off parts of the business.
Cutting back on locations: A company may find it has too many locations. When consumers just aren't coming through the doors, the company may be forced to close or sell some of its locations. This is especially true in the retail sector, including in fashion, banking, insurance, food service, and travel.
Selling losing assets: If the demand for a product or service is weaker than expected, a company may need to sell it. Continuing to produce and sell an underperforming asset can cut into the company's bottom line when it can concentrate on those that are performing well.
Political divestiture: Companies may divest from certain assets due to political or ethical liabilities. Examples include the movement to divest from fossil fuels, or the movements to divest from geographies that are politically controversial, like Israel or Russia.






Government regulation may require corporations to divest some of their assets, especially to avoid a monopoly.


   Examples of Divestitures  

Divestitures can come about in many different forms, including the sale of a business unit to improve financial performance and due to an antitrust violation.


  Meta-Giphy Sale  

In 2023, Meta (formerly Facebook) sold the animation database Giphy to Shutterstock for $53 million. That was an 83% loss from what the company had paid for Giphy just three years earlier. The sale was forced by U.K. regulators, who believed that Facebook's acquisition of the gif-animation platform represented a violation of the country's antitrust laws.


  Kellogg Split  

In 2022, foods manufacturer Kellogg announced its plans to split into three separate companies, spinning off its cereal and plant-based food brands. While the legacy Kellogg's company will focus on the frozen breakfast and snack foods that bring in 80% of the old company's revenue, the spin-offs will focus on the cereal markets and plant-based foods.




Why Are Companies Divesting From Israel?
In 2002, archbishop Desmond Tutu launched a campaign calling on international investors to divest from Israel over the country's alleged colonization of the West Bank and other occupied Palestinian territories. Several high profile institutions, including universities and church groups, have reduced or eliminated investments in Israeli companies and businesses.




What Happens to Employees in a Divestiture?
When a parent company divests part of its business, there may be some overlapping employees who ordinarily perform work for both entities. When that happens, the company will have to decide which employees will move into the new entity and which will remain part of the parent company. In addition, if the divested entity is purchased by another company, there may be some employee redundancies that lead to layoffs at the new company. It is important for companies to be transparent about their divestiture plans in order to maintain employee morale.




What Led to the AT&T Divestiture in 1982?
One of the most famous cases of court-ordered divestiture involves the breakup of the old AT&T in 1982. The U.S. government determined AT&T controlled too large a portion of the nation's telephone service and brought antitrust charges against the company in 1974. The divestiture created seven different companies, including one retaining the name AT&T, as well as new equipment manufacturers.


   The Bottom Line  

A divestiture happens when a company decides to sell or spin-off part of its business into a new entity. Companies may divest in order to focus on a core competency, raise cash, or reduce exposure to an underperforming business segment. They may also divest due to regulatory pressure if the combined entity has too large of a market share.
What Is Divestment?  

Divestment is the process of selling subsidiary assets, investments, or divisions of a company in order to maximize the value of the parent company. Also known as divestiture, divestment is effectively the opposite of an investment and is usually done when that subsidiary asset or division is not performing up to expectations.



In some cases, however, a company may be forced to sell assets as the result of legal or regulatory action. Companies can also look to a divestment strategy to satisfy other strategic business, financial, social, or political goals.





Key Takeaways

Divestment occurs when a company sells off some or all of its assets or subsidiaries.While most divestment decisions are deliberate efforts to streamline operations, forced selling of assets could result from regulatory or legal action such as bankruptcy.Divestment can take the form of spin-off, equity carve-out, or direct sale of assets.


   Understanding Divestment  

Divestment involves a company selling off a portion of its assets, often to improve company value and obtain higher efficiency. Many companies will use divestment to sell off peripheral assets that enable their management teams to regain sharper focus on the core business.



Divestment can result from either a corporate optimization strategy or else be driven by extraneous circumstances, such as when investments are reduced and firms withdraw from a particular geographic region or industry due to political or social pressure. One major current instance is the impact of the pandemic, remote work, and the rise of technology use and their impact on offices, commercial real estate.



Items that are divested may include a subsidiary, business department, real estate holding, equipment, and other property, or financial assets. Proceeds from these sales are typically used to pay down debt, make capital expenditures, fund working capital, or pay a special dividend to a company's shareholders. While most divestment transactions are premeditated, company-initiated efforts, at times this process could be forced upon them as a result of regulatory action.



Regardless of why a company chooses to adopt a divestment strategy, asset sales will generate revenue that can be used elsewhere in the organization. In the short run, this increased revenue will benefit organizations in that they can divert the funds to help another division that is not quite performing up to expectations. The norm is that divestment is done within the framework of restructuring and optimization activities. The exception would be if the company was being forced to divest a profitable asset or division for political or social reasons that could lead to a loss of revenue.


   Types of Divestments  

Divestment will typically take the form of a spin-off, equity carve-out, or direct sale of assets.



Spin-offs are non-cash and tax-free transactions, when a parent company distributes shares of its subsidiary to its shareholders. Thus, the subsidiary becomes a stand-alone company whose shares can be traded on a stock exchange. Spin-offs are most common among companies that consist of two separate and distinct businesses that have different growth or risk profiles.
Under the equity carve-out scenario, a parent company sells a certain percentage of the equity in its subsidiary to the public through a stock market offering. Equity carve-outs are often tax-free transactions that involve an equal exchange of cash for shares. Because the parent company typically retains a controlling stake in the subsidiary, equity carve-outs are most common among companies that need to finance growth opportunities for one of their subsidiaries. Additionally, equity carve-outs allow companies to establish trading avenues for their subsidiaries' shares and later disposes of the remaining stake under proper circumstances.
A direct sale of assets, including entire subsidiaries, is another common form of divestment. In this case, a parent company sells assets, such as real estate or equipment to another party. The sale of assets typically involves cash and may trigger tax consequences for a parent company if assets are sold at a gain. This type of divestiture that occurs under duress may result in a fire sale with assets sold for below book value.


   Major Reasons for Divestment  

The most common reason for divestment is to eliminate non-performing, non-core businesses. Companies, especially large corporations or conglomerates, may own different business units that operate in very different industries, and which can be quite difficult to manage or distracting from their core competencies.



Divesting a non-essential business unit can free up both time and capital for a parent company's management to focus on its primary operations and expertise. For instance, in 2014, General Electric (GE) made a decision to divest its non-core financing arm by selling its shares of Synchrony Financial as a spin-off on the New York Stock Exchange.



Additionally, companies divest their assets to obtain funds, shed an underperforming subsidiary, respond to regulatory action, and realize value through a break-up. Companies that are going through the process of bankruptcy will often be required by legal ruling to sell off parts of the business.



Finally, companies may engage in divestment for political and social reasons, such as selling assets contributing to global warming.
What Is a Dividend?  

A dividend is the distribution of a company's earnings to its shareholders and is determined by the company's board of directors. Dividends are often distributed quarterly and may be paid out as cash or in the form of reinvestment in additional stock.



The dividend yield is the dividend per share and is expressed as dividend/price as a percentage of a company's share price, such as 2.5%.



Common shareholders of dividend-paying companies are eligible to receive a distribution as long as they own the stock before the ex-dividend date.





Key Takeaways

A dividend is the distribution of corporate earnings to eligible shareholders.Dividend payments and amounts are determined by a company's board of directors.The dividend yield is the dividend per share, and expressed as a percentage of a company's share price. Many companies do not pay dividends and instead retain earnings to be invested back into the company.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Dividends  

Dividends must be approved by the shareholders by voting rights.   Although cash dividends are common, dividends can also be issued as shares of stock. Various mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) also pay dividends.



A dividend is a reward paid to the shareholders for their investment in a company’s equity, and it usually originates from the company's net profits. Though profits can be kept within the company as retained earnings to be used for the company’s ongoing and future business activities, a remainder can be allocated to the shareholders as a dividend.



Companies may still make dividend payments even when they don’t make suitable profits to maintain their established track record of distributions.



The board of directors can choose to issue dividends over various time frames and with different payout rates. Dividends can be paid at a scheduled frequency, such as monthly, quarterly, or annually. For example, Walmart Inc. (WMT) and Unilever (UL) make regular quarterly dividend payments.    



Companies can also issue non-recurring special dividends, either individually or in addition to a scheduled dividend. United Bancorp Inc. declared a 15 cents per share special dividend on Feb. 23, 2023.  


   Dividend-Paying Companies  

Larger, established companies with predictable profits are often the best dividend payers and the following industry sectors maintain a regular record of dividend payments:



Basic materialsOil and gasBanks and financialHealthcare and pharmaceuticalsUtilities



Companies structured as master limited partnerships (MLPs) and real estate investment trusts (REITs) require specified distributions to shareholders.     Funds may also issue regular dividend payments as stated in their investment objectives.



Startups, such as those in the technology or biotech sectors, may not offer regular dividends since these companies may be in the early stages of development and retain earnings for research and development, business expansion, and operational activities.


   Important Dividend Dates  

Dividend payments follow a chronological order of events, and the associated dates are important to determining which shareholders qualify to receive the dividend payment.



Announcement date: Dividends are announced by company management on the announcement date (or declaration date) and must be approved by the shareholders before they can be paid.
Ex-dividend date: The date on which the dividend eligibility expires is called the ex-dividend date or simply the ex-date. For instance, if a stock has an ex-date of Monday, May 5, then shareholders who buy the stock on or after that day will NOT qualify to receive the dividend. Shareholders who own the stock one business day prior to the ex-date, on Friday, May 2, or earlier, qualify for the distribution.
Record date: The record date is the cutoff date, established by the company to determine which shareholders are eligible to receive a dividend or distribution.
Payment date: The company issues the payment of the dividend on the payment date, which is when the money gets credited to investors' accounts.


   How Do Dividends Affect a Stock's Share Price?  

As an example, a company that is trading at $60 per share declares a $2 dividend on the announcement date. As the news becomes public, the share price may increase by $2 and hit $62.



If the stock trades at $63 one business day before the ex-dividend date. On the ex-dividend date, it's adjusted by $2 and begins trading at $61 at the start of the trading session on the ex-dividend date, because anyone buying on the ex-dividend date will not receive the dividend.


   Why Do Companies Pay Dividends?  

Dividends are often expected by the shareholders as a reward for their investment in a company. Dividend payments reflect positively on a company and help maintain investors’ trust.



A high-value dividend declaration can indicate that the company is doing well and has generated good profits. But it can also indicate that the company does not have suitable projects to generate better returns in the future. Therefore, it is utilizing its cash to pay shareholders instead of reinvesting it into growth.



A company with a long history of dividend payments that declares a reduction of the dividend amount, or its elimination, may signal to investors that the company is in trouble. AT&T Inc. cut its annual dividend in half to $1.11 on Feb. 1, 2022, and its shares fell 4% that day.



However, a reduction in dividend amounts or a decision against a dividend payment may not necessarily translate into bad news for a company. The company's management may have a plan for investing the money such as a high-return project that has the potential to magnify returns for shareholders in the long run.


   Fund Dividends  

Dividends paid by funds, such as a bond or mutual funds, are different from dividends paid by companies. Funds employ the principle of net asset value (NAV), which reflects the valuation of their holdings or the price of the assets that a fund has in its portfolio.



Regular dividend payments should not be misunderstood as a stellar performance by the fund. For example, a bond-investing fund may pay monthly dividends because it receives monthly interest on its interest-bearing holdings and merely transfers the income from the interest fully or partially to the fund's investors.



A stock-investing fund pays dividends from the earnings received from the many stocks held in its portfolio or by selling a certain share of stocks and distributing capital gains.


   Are Dividends Irrelevant?  

Economists Merton Miller and Franco Modigliani argued that a company's dividend policy is irrelevant and has no effect on the price of a firm's stock or its cost of capital. A shareholder may remain indifferent to a company’s dividend policy as in the case of high dividend payments where an investor can just use the cash received to buy more shares.



If a dividend payout is lean, an investor can instead sell shares to generate the cash they need. In either case, the combination of the value of an investment in the company and the cash they hold will remain the same. Miller and Modigliani thus conclude that dividends are irrelevant, and investors shouldn’t care about the firm's dividend policy because they can create their own synthetically.   However, dividends remain an attractive investment incentive, with additional earnings made available to shareholders.


   How to Buy Dividend-Paying Investments  

Investors seeking dividend investments have several options, including stocks, mutual funds, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). The dividend discount model or the Gordon growth model can help choose stock investments. These techniques rely on anticipated future dividend streams to value shares.



To compare multiple stocks based on their dividend payment performance, investors can use the dividend yield factor, which measures the dividend in terms of a percentage of the current market price of the company’s share.



The dividend rate can be quoted in terms of the dollar amount each share receives as dividends per share (DPS). In addition to dividend yield, another important performance measure to assess the returns generated from a particular investment is the total return factor. This figure accounts for interest, dividends, and increases in share price, among other capital gains.



Tax is another important consideration when investing in dividend gains. Investors in high tax brackets often prefer dividend-paying stocks if their jurisdiction allows zero or comparatively lower tax on dividends. For example, Greece and Slovakia have a lower tax on dividend income for shareholders, while dividend gains are tax exempt in Hong Kong.    








How Often Are Dividends Distributed to Shareholders?
Dividends are commonly distributed to shareholders quarterly, though some companies may pay dividends semi-annually. Payments can be received as cash or as reinvestment into shares of company stock.




What Is an Example of a Dividend?
If a company's board of directors decides to issue an annual 5% dividend per share, and the company’s shares are worth $100, the dividend is $5. If the dividends are issued every quarter, each distribution is $1.25.




Why Are Dividends Important?
Though dividends can signal that a company has stable cash flow and is generating profits, they can also provide investors with recurring revenue. Dividend payouts may also help provide insight into a company’s intrinsic value. Many countries also offer preferential tax treatment to dividends, where they are treated as tax-free income.
What Is a Dividend Aristocrat?  

A dividend aristocrat is a company in the S&P 500 index that not only consistently pays a dividend to shareholders but annually increases the size of its payout.



A company will be considered a dividend aristocrat if it raises its dividends consistently for at least the past 25 years. Some aficionados of dividend aristocrats rank them according to additional factors such as company size and liquidity, for instance having a market capitalization in excess of $3 billion.





Key Takeaways

A company is a dividend aristocrat if it increases the dividend it pays to shareholders for at least 25 straight years.A dividend aristocrat must also be a member of the S&P 500, and some investors may add additional screening criteria.They tend to be large, established companies that no longer enjoy supercharged growth.Many are largely recession-proof, enjoying steady profits and growing dividends in good times and bad.Dividend aristocrats are similar to dividend kings, which are firms increasing dividends annually for more than 50 years.


   Understanding the Dividend Aristocrat  

Companies that are able to maintain high dividend yields are relatively rare, and their businesses are usually very stable. They tend to have products that are recession-proof, allowing them to keep taking in profits and paying dividends even while other companies are struggling.



There are usually fewer than 100 dividend aristocrats at any given time. In 2021, just 65 dividend aristocrats were listed among the Standard & Poor's 500. They can be found in many sectors, including health care, retail, oil and gas, and construction.



Startup companies and high flyers in technology rarely offer dividends at all. Their management teams prefer to reinvest any earnings back into the operations to help sustain higher-than-average growth. Some fledgling companies even run at a net loss and don’t have the cash on hand to pay dividends.



Large, established companies with predictable profits are better dividend payers in general. Many do not enjoy regular, robust growth or a constantly rising stock price. These companies tend to issue regular dividends as an alternative way of rewarding their shareholders.


   Examples of Dividend Aristocrats  

Analysts have many ways to evaluate dividend aristocrats as investments. They include the growth of the stock prices of companies over time, their resilience to a downturn in the stock market, and their expectations for future prosperity. That means there is an ever-changing hierarchy among dividend aristocrats.



Forbes selected its top dividend aristocrats for 2021 based on its expectations of the companies' total future returns. Note that these choices—particularly Exxon Mobil—were made prior to the 2021 collapse in oil prices sparked by the spread of the novel coronavirus. 65 stocks meet the criteria required to be a dividend aristocrat in 2021. Some examples include:



AT&T (T)Exxon Mobil (XOM)Walgreens Boots Alliance (WBA)AbbVie (ABBV)IBM (IBM)3M (MMM)Caterpillar (CAT)






Two ways to track the performance of these stocks include the S&P Dividend Aristocrats index and the S&P High-Yield Dividend Aristocrats index.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Dividend Aristocrats  

A company that pays out an ever-increasing dividend is ideal for investors looking for stable income, and being such a company is a positive signal that the firm is on sound financial footing. Remember, however, that a dividend is a portion of a firm's profits that it is paying to its owners (shareholders) in the form of cash—any money that is paid out in a dividend is not reinvested in the business.



If a business is paying shareholders too high a percentage of its profits, it may be a sign that management prefers not to reinvest in the company given a lack of growth opportunities. Therefore, a dividend aristocrat may be squandering growth opportunities, or not have any such opportunities to redirect profits.



Moreover, company management can use dividends to placate frustrated investors when the stock isn't appreciating. That said, if a dividend aristocrat is able to grow the payout it gives to shareholders on a regular basis, it does imply some organic level of growth in order to fund those payments.





Pros

Provides stable income for shareholders
Is a positive signal indicating strong financials



Cons

Dividends may be paid in lieu of growth opportunities
Dividend stocks may produce lesser capital gains
Dividend payments are taxable events





   Dividend Aristocrats vs. Dividend Kings  

Similar to the dividend aristocrats, "dividend kings" are companies that are known for paying out dividends consistently over time. While a dividend aristocrat must be a member of the S&P 500 and have an increasing dividend payout over 25 years or more, to qualify as a dividend king a firm must only meet one hurdle: paying an increasing dividend consistently for at least 50 years.



Some dividend kings will also be dividend aristocrats, and not all aristocrats will be dividend kings (for instance, they have not been around for 50 years or are not in the S&P 500). It is less common for companies to consistently increase their dividends for over half a century, so the number of dividend kings tends to be fewer than their aristocrat cousins.





54+ years

Dividend King, The Tootsie Roll Co. (TR) has increased its annual cash dividend for 54 consecutive years and has paid continuous quarterly dividends for even longer. 


   Identifying Other Quality Dividend Payers  

In general, companies have dividend policies that fall into three categories: A stable dividend policy, a constant dividend policy, or a residual dividend policy.



If a company has a stable dividend policy, the shareholder can expect steady and predictable dividend payouts every year, regardless of fluctuations in the company's earnings.
If it has a constant dividend policy, the company pays a percentage of its profits to shareholders every year, so investors experience the full volatility of company earnings.
If it has a residual dividend policy, the company pays out in dividends whatever money remains after it has taken care of its capital expenditures and working capital.


   Dividend Aristocrat FAQs  
  How Can You Build a Dividend Aristocrat Portfolio?  

All companies that are dividend aristocrats are members of the S&P 500, and so one can identify those stocks and construct a dividend-focused portfolio. In 2021, there were 65 such stocks, which can be found by searching the internet, as several financial sites maintain up-to-date lists of the dividend aristocrats, like the ones offered by Dogs of the Dow or Sure Dividend.


  How Much of a Portfolio Should You Dedicate to Dividend Aristocrats?  

The weight given to dividend stocks will depend on several factors, including your risk tolerance, time horizon, need for current income, and tax situation. Because dividend aristocrats tend to be large, mature companies with fewer growth prospects, they can be less volatile but also carry lower expected returns. Retired individuals may especially benefit from the relatively lower risk and additional income that these stocks provide.


  Do Dividend Aristocrats Outperform the Market?  

This will depend on the time period examined. As of 2021, the Dividend Aristocrats Index has performed almost identically to the broader market over the last decade, with a 14.3% total annual return for the dividend aristocrats versus 14.2% for the S&P 500 Index. However, on a risk-adjusted basis, the dividend aristocrats have exhibited somewhat lower volatility than the broader market.


  Is It Good to Invest in Dividend Aristocrats During a Recession?  

Since these companies are mature and have weathered economic downturns before, increasing dividends during recessions no less, it can make sense to seek these stocks out as safe havens while growth stocks flounder.
What Is the Dividend Discount Model (DDM)?  

The dividend discount model (DDM) is a quantitative method used for predicting the price of a company's stock based on the theory that its present-day price is worth the sum of all of its future dividend payments when discounted back to their present value.



It attempts to calculate the fair value of a stock irrespective of the prevailing market conditions and takes into consideration the dividend payout factors and the market expected returns. If the value obtained from the DDM is higher than the current trading price of shares, then the stock is undervalued and qualifies for a buy, and vice versa.





Key Takeaways

The dividend discount model (DDM) is a mathematical means of predicting the price of a company's stock.The model is based on the idea that the stock's present-day price is worth the sum of all its future dividends when discounted back to its present value.The purpose of the DDM is to calculate the fair value of a stock, regardless of current market conditions. If the DDM value is greater than the current stock price, then the stock is undervalued and should be bought. If the DDM value is lower, then the opposite is true.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding the DDM  

A company produces goods or offers services to earn profits. The cash flow earned from such business activities determines its profits, which gets reflected in the company’s stock prices. Companies also make dividend payments to stockholders, which usually originate from business profits. The DDM model is based on the theory that the value of a company is the present worth of the sum of all of its future dividend payments.






   Time Value of Money  

Imagine you gave $100 to your friend as an interest-free loan. After some time, you go to them to collect your loaned money. Your friend gives you two options:

Take your $100 now
Take your $100 after a year

Most individuals will opt for the first choice. Taking the money now will allow you to deposit it in a bank. If the bank pays a nominal interest, say 5%, then after a year, your money will grow to $105. It will be better than the second option where you get $100 from your friend after a year. Mathematically,
















Future


 


Value


















=



Present


 


Value


 






∗



(


1


+




interest


 


rate




%


)


















(



for


 


one


 


year



)







\begin{aligned}&\textbf{Future Value}\\&\qquad\mathbf{=}\textbf{Present Value }\mathbf{^*(1+}\textbf{interest rate}\mathbf{\%)}\\&\hspace{2.65in}(\textit{for one year})\end{aligned}


​Future Value=Present Value ∗(1+interest rate%)(for one year)​
The above example indicates the time value of money, which can be summarized as “Money’s value is dependent on time.” Looking at it another way, if you know the future value of an asset or a receivable, you can calculate its present worth by using the same interest rate model.
Rearranging the equation,
















Present


 


Value



=




Future


 


Value




(


1


+



interest


 


rate



%


)









\begin{aligned}&\textbf{Present Value}=\frac{\textbf{Future Value}}{\mathbf{(1+\textbf{interest rate}\%)}}\end{aligned}


​Present Value=(1+interest rate%)Future Value​​
In essence, given any two factors, the third one can be computed.
The dividend discount model uses this principle. It takes the expected value of the cash flows a company will generate in the future and calculates its net present value (NPV) drawn from the concept of the time value of money (TVM).
Essentially, the DDM is built on taking the sum of all future dividends expected to be paid by the company and calculating its present value using a net interest rate factor (also called discount rate).


   Expected Dividends  

Estimating the future dividends of a company can be a complex task. Analysts and investors may make certain assumptions, or try to identify trends based on past dividend payment history to estimate future dividends.



One can assume that the company has a fixed growth rate of dividends until perpetuity, which refers to a constant stream of identical cash flows for an infinite amount of time with no end date. For example, if a company has paid a dividend of $1 per share this year and is expected to maintain a 5% growth rate for dividend payment, the next year’s dividend is expected to be $1.05.



Alternatively, if one spots a certain trend—like a company making dividend payments of $2.00, $2.50, $3.00, and $3.50 over the last four years—then an assumption can be made about this year’s payment being $4.00. Such an expected dividend is mathematically represented by (D).


   Discounting Factor  

Shareholders who invest their money in stocks take a risk as their purchased stocks may decline in value. Against this risk, they expect a return/compensation. Similar to a landlord renting out their property for rent, the stock investors act as money lenders to the firm and expect a certain rate of return. A firm's cost of equity capital represents the compensation the market and investors demand in exchange for owning the asset and bearing the risk of ownership.



This rate of return is represented by (r) and can be estimated using the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) or the Dividend Growth Model. However, this rate of return can be realized only when an investor sells their shares. The required rate of return can vary due to investor discretion.



Companies that pay dividends do so at a certain annual rate, which is represented by (g). The rate of return minus the dividend growth rate (r - g) represents the effective discounting factor for a company’s dividend. The dividend is paid out and realized by the shareholders.



The dividend growth rate can be estimated by multiplying the return on equity (ROE) by the retention ratio (the latter being the opposite of the dividend payout ratio). Since the dividend is sourced from the earnings generated by the company, ideally it cannot exceed the earnings. The rate of return on the overall stock has to be above the rate of growth of dividends for future years, otherwise, the model may not sustain and lead to results with negative stock prices that are not possible in reality.


   DDM Formula  

Based on the expected dividend per share and the net discounting factor, the formula for valuing a stock using the dividend discount model is mathematically represented as,
















Value


 


of


 


Stock



=



EDPS




(


CCE



−



DGR


)



















where:
















E


D


P


S


=


expected dividend per share
















C


C


E


=


cost of capital equity
















D


G


R


=


dividend growth rate







\begin{aligned}&\textit{\textbf{Value of Stock}}=\frac{\textit{\textbf{EDPS}}}{\textbf{(\textit{CCE}}-\textbf{\textit{DGR})}}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&EDPS=\text{expected dividend per share}\\&CCE=\text{cost of capital equity}\\&DGR=\text{dividend growth rate}\end{aligned}


​Value of Stock=(CCE−DGR)EDPS​where:EDPS=expected dividend per shareCCE=cost of capital equityDGR=dividend growth rate​
Since the variables used in the formula include the dividend per share and the net discount rate (represented by the required rate of return or cost of equity and the expected rate of dividend growth), the value comes with certain assumptions.
Since dividends, and their growth rate, are key inputs to the formula, the DDM is believed to be applicable only to companies that pay out regular dividends; however, it can still be applied to stocks that do not pay dividends by making assumptions about what dividend they would have paid otherwise.


   DDM Variations  

The DDM has many variations that differ in complexity. While not accurate for most companies, the simplest iteration of the dividend discount model assumes zero growth in the dividend, in which case the value of the stock is the value of the dividend divided by the expected rate of return.
The most common and straightforward calculation of a DDM is known as the Gordon growth model (GGM), which assumes a stable dividend growth rate and was named in the 1960s after American economist Myron J. Gordon.
This model assumes a stable growth in dividends year after year. To find the price of a dividend-paying stock, the GGM takes into account three variables:















D


=


the estimated value of next year’s dividend
















r


=


the company’s cost of capital equity
















g


=


the constant growth rate for dividends, in perpetuity







\begin{aligned}&D = \text{the estimated value of next year's dividend}\\&r = \text{the company's cost of capital equity}\\&g = \text{the constant growth rate for dividends, in perpetuity}\end{aligned}


​D=the estimated value of next year’s dividendr=the company’s cost of capital equityg=the constant growth rate for dividends, in perpetuity​
Using these variables, the equation for the GGM is:





Price per Share


=



D



r


−


g





\text{Price per Share}=\frac{D}{r-g}


Price per Share=r−gD​
A third variant exists as the supernormal dividend growth model, which takes into account a period of high growth followed by a lower, constant growth period. During the high growth period, one can take each dividend amount and discount it back to the present period. For the constant growth period, the calculations follow the GGM model. All such calculated factors are summed up to arrive at a stock price.


   Examples of the DDM  

Assume Company X paid a dividend of $1.80 per share this year. The company expects dividends to grow in perpetuity at 5% per year, and the company's cost of equity capital is 7%. The $1.80 dividend is the dividend for this year and needs to be adjusted by the growth rate to find D1, the estimated dividend for next year. This calculation is: D1 = D0 x (1 + g) = $1.80 x (1 + 5%) = $1.89. Next, using the GGM, Company X's price per share is found to be D(1) / (r - g) = $1.89 / ( 7% - 5%) = $94.50.



A look at the dividend payment history of leading American retailer Walmart Inc. (WMT) indicates that it has paid out annual dividends of $2.08, $2.12, $2.16, $2.20, and $2.24, between 2019 and 2024 in chronological order.



One can see a pattern of a consistent increase of 4 cents in Walmart's dividend each year, which equals an average growth of about 2%. Assume an investor has a required rate of return of 5%. Using an estimated dividend of $2.28 at the beginning of 2024, the investor would use the dividend discount model to calculate a per-share value of $2.28/ (.05 - .02) = $76.


   Shortcomings of the DDM  

While the GGM method of the DDM is widely used, it has two well-known shortcomings. The model assumes a constant dividend growth rate in perpetuity. This assumption is generally safe for very mature companies that have an established history of regular dividend payments.



However, DDM may not be the best model to value newer companies that have fluctuating dividend growth rates or no dividends at all. One can still use the DDM on such companies, but with more and more assumptions, the precision decreases.



The second issue with the DDM is that the output is very sensitive to the inputs. For example, in the Company X example above, if the dividend growth rate is lowered by 10% to 4.5%, the resulting stock price is $75.24, which is more than a 20% decrease from the earlier calculated price of $94.50.



The model also fails when companies may have a lower rate of return (r) compared to the dividend growth rate (g). This may happen when a company continues to pay dividends even if it is incurring a loss or relatively lower earnings.


   Using the DDM for Investments  

All DDM variants, especially the GGM, allow valuing a share exclusive of the current market conditions. It also aids in making direct comparisons among companies, even if they belong to different industrial sectors.



Investors who believe in the underlying principle that the present-day intrinsic value of a stock is a representation of their discounted value of future dividend payments can use it for identifying overbought or oversold stocks. If the calculated value comes to be higher than the current market price of a share, it indicates a buying opportunity as the stock is trading below its fair value as per the DDM.



However, one should note that the DDM is another quantitative tool available in the big universe of stock valuation tools. Like any other valuation method used to determine the intrinsic value of a stock, one can use the DDM in addition to the several other commonly followed stock valuation methods. Since it requires lots of assumptions and predictions, it may not be the sole best way to base investment decisions.




What Are the Types of Dividend Discount Models?
The main types of dividend discount models are the Gordon Growth model, the two-stage model, the three-stage model, and the H-Model.




How Do You Do a Dividend Discount Model?
The calculation for the dividend discount model is Intrinsic Value = Sum of Present Value of Dividends + Present Value of Stock Sales Price.




What Is the 25% Dividend Rule?
If a dividend will be high, the price of the stock may fall by the value of the dividend on the ex-dividend date. The 25% dividend rule states that if the dividend is 25% or more than the stock's value then the ex-dividend date will be deferred to one business day after the dividend is paid.


   The Bottom Line  

The dividend discount model can help investors pick stocks, helping to determine whether a stock is overbought or oversold, even when comparing investments across different sectors. The model is best used for stocks with a long dividend history and is not as suitable for ones with a short dividend history or no dividend history at all. As with any investment, a multitude of factors should be evaluated before finalizing a decision.
The dividend growth rate is the annualized percentage rate of growth that a particular stock's dividend undergoes over a period of time. Many mature companies seek to increase the dividends paid to their investors on a regular basis. Knowing the dividend growth rate is a key input for stock valuation models known as dividend discount models.





Key Takeaways

Dividend growth calculates the annualized average rate of increase in the dividends paid by a company.Calculating the dividend growth rate is necessary for using a dividend discount model for valuing stocks.A history of strong dividend growth could mean future dividend growth is likely, which can signal long-term profitability.







What Is A Dividend?


   Understanding the Dividend Growth Rate  

Being able to calculate the dividend growth rate is necessary for using the dividend discount model. The dividend discount model is a type of security-pricing model. The dividend discount model assumes that the estimated future dividends—discounted by the excess of internal growth over the company's estimated dividend growth rate—determine a given stock's price.



If the dividend discount model procedure results in a higher number than the current price of a company’s shares, the model considers the stock undervalued. Investors who use the dividend discount model believe that by estimating the expected value of cash flow in the future, they can find the intrinsic value of a specific stock.



A history of strong dividend growth could mean future dividend growth is likely, which can signal long-term profitability for a given company. When an investor calculates the dividend growth rate, they can use any interval of time they wish. They may also calculate the dividend growth rate using the least squares method or by simply taking a simple annualized figure over the time period.






   How to Calculate the Dividend Growth Rate  

An investor can calculate the dividend growth rate by taking an average, or geometrically for more precision. As an example of the linear method, consider the following.



A company's dividend payments to its shareholders over the last five years were:



Year 1 = $1.00Year 2 = $1.05Year 3 = $1.07Year 4 = $1.11Year 5 = $1.15



To calculate the growth from one year to the next, use the following formula:



Dividend Growth= DividendYearX /(DividendYear(X - 1)) - 1



In the above example, the growth rates are:



Year 1 Growth Rate = N/AYear 2 Growth Rate = $1.05 / $1.00 - 1 = 5%Year 3 Growth Rate = $1.07 / $1.05 - 1 = 1.9%Year 4 Growth Rate = $1.11 / $1.07 - 1 = 3.74%Year 5 Growth Rate = $1.15 / $1.11 - 1 = 3.6%



The average of these four annual growth rates is 3.56%. To confirm this is correct, use the following calculation:



$1 x (1 + 3.56%)4 = $1.15


   Example: Dividend Growth and Stock Valuation  

To value a company’s stock, an individual can use the dividend discount model (DDM). The dividend discount model is based on the idea that a stock is worth the sum of its future payments to shareholders, discounted back to the present day.
The simplest dividend discount model, known as the Gordon Growth Model (GGM)'s formula is:















P


=




D


1




r


−


g


















where:
















P


=


Current stock price
















g


=


Constant growth rate expected for
















dividends, in perpetuity
















r


=


Constant cost of equity capital for the
















company (or rate of return)

















D


1



=


Value of next year’s dividends







\begin{aligned} &P = \frac{ D_1 }{ r - g } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &P = \text{Current stock price} \\ &g = \text{Constant growth rate expected for} \\ &\text{dividends, in perpetuity} \\ &r = \text{Constant cost of equity capital for the} \\ &\text{company (or rate of return)} \\ &D_1 = \text{Value of next year's dividends} \\ \end{aligned}


​P=r−gD1​​where:P=Current stock priceg=Constant growth rate expected fordividends, in perpetuityr=Constant cost of equity capital for thecompany (or rate of return)D1​=Value of next year’s dividends​
In the above example, if we assume next year's dividend will be $1.18 and the cost of equity capital is 8%, the stock's current price per share calculates as follows:
P = $1.18 / (8% - 3.56%) = $26.58.




What Is a Good Dividend Growth Rate?
A good dividend growth rate can be different for every investor. Generally, investors should seek out companies that have provided 10 years of consecutive annual dividend increases with a 10-year dividend per share compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5%.




What Is the Difference Between Dividend Yield and Dividend Growth?
Dividend yield is the amount that a company pays out in dividends compared to its stock price. Dividend growth is the increase in the value of dividends that a company pays out over a period of time.




Do Dividends Grow Every Year?
Whether or not dividends grow every year will depend on the company. Generally, well-established companies that pay dividends will ensure that dividends grow every year; however, it is not guaranteed that dividends grow every year.


   The Bottom Line  

Dividends can be a great boon to investor portfolios, providing a regular stream of income, which can be particularly beneficial when a stock hasn't witnessed much appreciation. Understanding how a company views its dividend payments and how the dividend's growth has been, can help investors make wise investment decisions. Utilizing the dividend growth rate calculation can help with these investment decisions.
What Is Dividend Irrelevance Theory?  

Dividend irrelevance theory posits that dividends don’t have any effect on a company’s stock price. A dividend is typically a cash payment made from a company’s profits to its shareholders as a reward for investing in the company.



Dividend irrelevance theory goes on to state that dividends can hurt a company’s ability to be competitive in the long term since the money would be better off reinvested in the company to generate earnings.



Although there are companies that have likely opted to pay dividends instead of boosting their earnings, there are many critics of dividend irrelevance theory who believe that dividends help a company’s stock price to rise.





Key Takeaways

Dividend irrelevance theory suggests that a company’s dividend payments don’t add value to a company’s stock price.Dividend irrelevance theory also argues that dividends hurt a company since the money would be better reinvested in the company.The theory has merits when companies take on debt to honor their dividend payments instead of paying down debt to improve their balance sheet.


   Understanding Dividend Irrelevance Theory  

Dividend irrelevance theory suggests that a company’s payment of dividends should have little to no impact on the stock price. If this theory holds true, it would mean that dividends do not add value to a company’s stock price.



The premise of the theory is that a company’s ability to earn a profit and grow its business, not dividend payments, determines a company’s market value and drives the stock price. Those who believe in dividend irrelevance theory argue that dividends don’t offer any added benefit to investors and, in some cases, argue that dividend payments can hurt the company’s financial health.






Dividend irrelevance theory was developed by economists Merton Miller and Franco Modigliani in 1961. The duo are also responsible for the Modigliani-Miller theorem. Both were awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics.


   Dividends and Stock Price  

Dividend irrelevance theory holds that the markets perform efficiently so that any dividend payout will lead to a decline in the stock price by the amount of the dividend. In other words, if the stock price was $10, and a few days later, the company paid a dividend of $1, the stock would fall to $9 per share. As a result, holding the stock for the dividend achieves no gain since the stock price adjusts lower for the same amount of the payout.



However, stocks that pay dividends, like many established companies called blue-chip stocks, often increase in price by the amount of the dividend as the book closure date approaches. Although the stock can decline once the dividend has been paid, many dividend-seeking investors hold these stocks for the consistent dividends that they offer, which creates an underlying level of demand.



Also, the stock price of a company is driven by more than the company’s dividend policy. Analysts conduct valuation exercises to determine a stock’s intrinsic value. These often incorporate factors, such as:



Dividend paymentsFinancial performanceQualitative measurements, including management quality, economic factors, and an understanding of the company’s position in the industry


   Dividends and a Company’s Financial Health  

Dividend irrelevance theory suggests that companies can hurt their financial well-being by issuing dividends, which is not an unprecedented occurrence.


  Taking on Debt  

Dividends could hurt a company if the company is taking on debt, in the form of issuing bonds to investors or borrowing from a bank’s credit facility, to make their cash dividend payments.



Let’s say that a company has made acquisitions in the past that have resulted in a significant amount of debt on its balance sheet. The debt-servicing costs or interest payments can be detrimental. Also, excessive debt can prevent companies from accessing more credit when they need it most. If the company has a hard-line stance of always paying dividends, proponents of dividend irrelevance theory would argue that the company is hurting itself. Over several years, all of those dividend payouts could have gone to paying down debt. Less debt might lead to more favorable credit terms on the remaining outstanding debt, allowing the company to reduce its debt-servicing costs.



Also, debt and dividend payments might prevent the company from making an acquisition that might help increase earnings in the long term. Of course, it’s difficult to pinpoint whether dividend payments are to blame for a company’s underperformance. Mismanaging its debt, poor execution by management, and outside factors, such as slow economic growth, could all add to a company’s difficulties. However, companies that don’t pay dividends have more cash on hand to make acquisitions, invest in assets, and pay down debt.


  CAPEX Spending  

If a company is not investing in its business through capital expenditures (CAPEX), there could be a decline in the company’s valuation as earnings and competitiveness erode over time. Capital expenditures are large investments that companies make for their long-term financial health and can include purchases of buildings, technology, equipment, and acquisitions.






Investors that buy dividend-paying stocks need to evaluate whether a management team is effectively balancing the payout of dividends and investing in its future.


   Dividend Irrelevance Theory and Portfolio Strategies  

Despite dividend irrelevance theory, many investors focus on dividends when managing their portfolios. For example, a current income strategy seeks to identify investments that pay above-average distributions (i.e., dividends and interest payments). While relatively risk-averse overall, current income strategies can be included in a range of allocation decisions across a gradient of risk.



Strategies focused on income are usually appropriate for retirees or risk-averse investors. These income-seeking investors buy stocks in established companies that have a track record of consistently paying dividends and a low risk of missing a dividend payment.



Blue-chip companies generally pay steady dividends. These are multinational firms that have been in operation for a number of years, including Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, and Walgreens Boots Alliance. These companies are dominant leaders in their respective industries and have built highly reputable brands, surviving multiple downturns in the economy.



Also, dividends can help with portfolio strategies centered around the preservation of capital. If a portfolio suffers a loss from a decline in the stock market, the gains from dividends can help offset those losses, preserving an investor’s hard-earned savings.




Why do companies pay dividends?
Companies pay dividends as a way to share profits with shareholders. Not all companies pay dividends.




How are dividends paid?
In general, dividends are paid in cash. Dividend payments can also be reinvested in the stock distributing them to buy more shares.




Who is eligible for stock dividends?
Shareholders who buy or already own a company’s stock before the ex-dividend date will receive dividends on the date of payment. A company’s board of directors determines these dates.


   The Bottom Line  

Dividend irrelevance theory maintains that dividend payments don’t impact a company’s stock price. The theory was developed by economists Merton Miller and Franco Modigliani, both Nobel laureates.



The theory is not without its critics. For example, some maintain that a company’s ability to pay out regular dividends signals financial strength and sustainability to investors, which can positively impact a stock’s price.
What Is a Dividend Payout Ratio?  

The dividend payout ratio is the ratio of the total amount of dividends paid out to shareholders relative to the net income of the company. It is the percentage of earnings paid to shareholders via dividends. The amount that is not paid to shareholders is retained by the company to pay off debt or to reinvest in core operations. It is sometimes simply referred to as simply the payout ratio.





Key Takeaways


The dividend payout ratio is the proportion of earnings paid out as dividends to shareholders, typically expressed as a percentage. 
Some companies pay out all their earnings to shareholders, while some only pay out a portion of their earnings.
If a company pays out some of its earnings as dividends, the remaining portion is retained by the business—to measure the level of earnings retained, the retention ratio is calculated.
Several considerations go into interpreting the dividend payout ratio, most importantly the company's level of maturity.













Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Formula and Calculation of Dividend Payout Ratio  

The dividend payout ratio can be calculated as the yearly dividend per share divided by the earnings per share (EPS), or equivalently, the dividends divided by net income (as shown below).


















Dividend Payout Ratio


=



Dividends Paid


Net Income








\begin{aligned} &\text{Dividend Payout Ratio} = \frac{ \text{Dividends Paid} }{ \text{Net Income} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Dividend Payout Ratio=Net IncomeDividends Paid​​



Alternatively, the dividend payout ratio can also be calculated as:


















Dividend Payout Ratio


=


1


−


Retention Ratio







\begin{aligned} &\text{Dividend Payout Ratio} = 1 - \text{Retention Ratio} \\ \end{aligned}


​Dividend Payout Ratio=1−Retention Ratio​



On a per-share basis, the retention ratio can be expressed as:


















Retention Ratio


=




EPS


−


DPS



EPS

















where:
















EPS


=


Earnings per share
















DPS


=


Dividends per share







\begin{aligned}&\text{Retention Ratio} = \frac{ \text{EPS}-\text{DPS} }{ \text{EPS} } \\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{EPS}=\text{Earnings per share} \\&\text{DPS}=\text{Dividends per share}\end{aligned}


​Retention Ratio=EPSEPS−DPS​where:EPS=Earnings per shareDPS=Dividends per share​






The dividend payout ratio provides an indication of how much money a company is returning to shareholders versus how much it is keeping on hand to reinvest in growth, pay off debt, or add to cash reserves (retained earnings). 






   What the Dividend Payout Ratio Tells You  

Several considerations go into interpreting the dividend payout ratio, most importantly the company's level of maturity. A new, growth-oriented company that aims to expand, develop new products, and move into new markets would be expected to reinvest most or all of its earnings and could be forgiven for having a low or even zero payout ratio. The payout ratio is 0% for companies that do not pay dividends and is 100% for companies that pay out their entire net income as dividends.



On the other hand, an older, established company that returns a pittance to shareholders would test investors' patience and could tempt activists to intervene. In 2012 and after nearly twenty years since its last paid dividend, Apple (AAPL) began to pay a dividend when the new CEO felt the company's enormous cash flow made a 0% payout ratio difficult to justify. Since it implies that a company has moved past its initial growth stage, a high payout ratio means share prices are unlikely to appreciate rapidly.


  Dividend Sustainability  

The payout ratio is also useful for assessing a dividend's sustainability. Companies are extremely reluctant to cut dividends since it can drive the stock price down and reflect poorly on management's abilities. If a company's payout ratio is over 100%, it is returning more money to shareholders than it is earning and will probably be forced to lower the dividend or stop paying it altogether. That result is not inevitable, however.



A company endures a bad year without suspending payouts, and it is often in their interest to do so. It is therefore important to consider future earnings expectations and calculate a forward-looking payout ratio to contextualize the backward-looking one.



Long-term trends in the payout ratio also matter. A steadily rising ratio could indicate a healthy, maturing business, but a spiking one could mean the dividend is heading into unsustainable territory.



The retention ratio is a converse concept to the dividend payout ratio. The dividend payout ratio evaluates the percentage of profits earned that a company pays out to its shareholders, while the retention ratio represents the percentage of profits earned that are retained by or reinvested in the company.


  Dividends Are Industry Specific  

Dividend payouts vary widely by industry, and like most ratios, they are most useful to compare within a given industry. Real estate investment partnerships (REITs), for example, are legally obligated to distribute at least 90% of earnings to shareholders as they enjoy special tax exemptions. Master limited partnerships (MLPs) tend to have high payout ratios, as well. 



Dividends are not the only way companies can return value to shareholders; therefore, the payout ratio does not always provide a complete picture. The augmented payout ratio incorporates share buybacks into the metric; it is calculated by dividing the sum of dividends and buybacks by net income for the same period. If the result is too high, it can indicate an emphasis on short-term boosts to share prices at the expense of reinvestment and long-term growth.



Another adjustment that can be made to provide a more accurate picture is to subtract preferred stock dividends for companies that issue preferred shares.


   How to Calculate the Payout Ratio in Excel  

First, if you are given the sum of the dividends over a certain period and the outstanding shares, you can calculate the dividends per share (DPS). Suppose you are invested in a company that paid a total of $5 million last year and it has 5 million shares outstanding. On Microsoft Excel, enter "Dividends per Share" into cell A1. Next, enter "=5000000/5000000" in cell B1; the dividend per share in this company is $1 per share.



Then, you need to calculate the earnings per share (EPS) if it is not given. Enter "Earnings per Share" into cell A2. Suppose the company had a net income of $50 million last year. The formula for earnings per share is (net income - dividends on preferred stock) ÷ (shares outstanding). Enter "=(50000000 - 5000000)/5000000" into cell B2. The EPS for this company is $9.



Finally, calculate the payout ratio: Enter "Payout Ratio" into cell A3. Next, enter "=B1/B2" into cell B3; the payout ratio is 11.11%. Investors use the ratio to gauge whether dividends are appropriate and sustainable. The payout ratio depends on the sector; for example, startup companies may have a low payout ratio because they are more focused on reinvesting their income to grow the business.


   Example of How to Use the Payout Ratio  

Companies that make a profit at the end of a fiscal period can do several things with the profit they earned. They can pay it to shareholders as dividends, they can retain it to reinvest in the growth of its business, or they can do both. The portion of the profit that a company chooses to pay out to its shareholders can be measured with the payout ratio.



For example, Apple (AAPL) has paid $0.87 per share in dividends over the trailing 12 months (TTM) as of Jan. 3, 2022. Apple's EPS over the TTM has been as follows:



Q1 2021: $1.70Q2 2021: $1.41Q3 2021: $1.31Q4 2021: $1.25



The TTM EPS for Apple is $5.67 as of Jan. 3, 2022. Thus, its payout ratio is 15.3%, or $0.87 divided by $5.67.


   Dividend Payout vs. Dividend Yield  

When comparing these two measures, it's important to know that the dividend yield tells you what the simple rate of return is in the form of cash dividends to shareholders, but the dividend payout ratio represents how much of a company's net earnings are paid out as dividends.



While the dividend yield is the more commonly known and scrutinized term, many believe the dividend payout ratio is a better indicator of a company's ability to distribute dividends consistently in the future. The dividend payout ratio is highly connected to a company's cash flow.



The dividend yield shows how much a company has paid out in dividends over the course of a year about the stock price. The yield is presented as a percentage, not as an actual dollar amount. This makes it easier to see how much return per dollar invested the shareholder receives through dividends.



The yield is calculated as:


















Dividend Yield


=



Annual Dividends per Share


Price per Share








\begin{aligned} &\text{Dividend Yield} = \frac{ \text{Annual Dividends per Share} }{ \text{Price per Share} } \end{aligned}


​Dividend Yield=Price per ShareAnnual Dividends per Share​​ 



For example, a company that paid out $10 in annual dividends per share on a stock trading at $100 per share has a dividend yield of 10%. You can also see that an increase in share price reduces the dividend yield percentage and vice versa for a price decline.




Why Is the Dividend Payout Ratio Important?
The dividend payout ratio is a key financial metric used to determine the sustainability of a company’s dividend payment program. It is the amount of dividends paid to shareholders relative to the total net income of a company. 




How Do You Calculate the Dividend Payout Ratio?
It is commonly calculated on a per-share basis by dividing annual dividends per common share by earnings per share (EPS).




Is a High Dividend Payout Ratio Good?
A high dividend payout ratio is not always valued by active investors. An unusually high dividend payout ratio can indicate that a company is trying to mask a bad business situation from investors by offering extravagant dividends, or that it simply does not plan to aggressively use working capital to expand.




What Is the Difference Between the Dividend Payout Ratio and Dividend Yield?
When comparing the two measures of dividends, it's important to know that the dividend yield tells you what the simple rate of return is in the form of cash dividends to shareholders, but the dividend payout ratio represents how much of a company's net earnings are paid out as dividends.
What Is Dividend Per Share (DPS)?  

Dividend per share (DPS) is the sum of declared dividends issued by a company for every ordinary share outstanding. The figure is calculated by dividing the total dividends paid out by a business, including interim dividends, over a period of time, usually a year, by the number of outstanding ordinary shares issued.



A company's DPS is often derived using the dividend paid in the most recent quarter, which is also used to calculate the dividend yield.





Key Takeaways


Dividend per share (DPS) is the sum of declared dividends issued by a company for every ordinary share outstanding. 
DPS is calculated by dividing the total dividends paid out by a business, including interim dividends, over a period of time, usually a year, by the number of outstanding ordinary shares issued. 
DPS is an important metric to investors because the amount a firm pays out in dividends directly translates to income for the shareholder.
A growing DPS over time can also be a sign that a company's management believes that its earnings growth can be sustained.



   Understanding Dividend Per Share (DPS)  

DPS is an important metric to investors because the amount a firm pays out in dividends directly translates to income for the shareholder. It is the most straightforward figure an investor can use to calculate their dividend payments from owning shares of a stock over time.



A consistent increase in DPS over time can also give investors confidence that the company's management believes that its earnings growth can be sustained.


  DPS Formula  
















DPS


=




D


−


SD



S

















where:
















D


=


sum of dividends over a period (usually
















a quarter or year)
















SD


=


special, one-time dividends in the period
















S


=


ordinary shares outstanding for the period







\begin{aligned} &\text{DPS} = \frac { \text{D} - \text{SD} }{ \text{S} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{D} = \text{sum of dividends over a period (usually} \\ &\text{a quarter or year)} \\ &\text{SD} = \text{special, one-time dividends in the period} \\ &\text{S} = \text{ordinary shares outstanding for the period} \\ \end{aligned}


​DPS=SD−SD​where:D=sum of dividends over a period (usuallya quarter or year)SD=special, one-time dividends in the periodS=ordinary shares outstanding for the period​



Dividends over the entire year, not including any special dividends, must be added together for a proper calculation of DPS, including interim dividends. Special dividends are dividends that are only expected to be issued once and are, therefore, not included. Interim dividends are dividends distributed to shareholders that have been declared and paid before a company has determined its annual earnings.



If a company has issued common shares during the calculation period, the total number of ordinary shares outstanding is generally calculated using the weighted average of shares over the reporting period, which is the same figure used for earnings per share (EPS).



For example, assume ABC company paid a total of $237,000 in dividends over the last year, during which there was a special one-time dividend totaling $59,250. ABC has 2 million shares outstanding, so its DPS is ($237,000-$59,250)/2,000,000 = $0.09 per share.


   Special Considerations  

DPS is related to several financial metrics that take into account a firm's dividend payments, such as the payout ratio and retention ratio. Given the definition of payout ratio as the proportion of earnings paid out as dividends to shareholders, DPS can be calculated by multiplying a firm's payout ratio by its earnings per share. A company's EPS, equal to net income divided by the number of outstanding shares, is often easily accessible via the firm's income statement. The retention ratio, meanwhile, refers to the opposite of the payout ratio, as it instead measures the proportion of a firm's earnings retained and therefore not paid out as dividends. 



The idea that the intrinsic value of a stock can be estimated by its future dividends or the value of the cash flows the stock will generate in the future makes up the basis of the dividend discount model. The model typically takes into account the most recent DPS for its calculation.






   Dividend Per Share Examples  

Increasing DPS is a good way for a company to signal strong performance to its shareholders. For this reason, many companies that pay a dividend focus on adding to their DPS, so established dividend-paying corporations tend to boast steady DPS growth. Coca-Cola, for example, has paid a quarterly dividend since 1920 and has consistently increased annual DPS since at least 1996 (adjusting for stock splits).



Similarly, Walmart has upped its annual cash dividend each year since it first declared a $0.05 dividend payout in March 1974. Since 2015, the retail giant has added at least 4 cents each year to its dividend per share, which was raised to $2.08 for Walmart's FY 2019.




Why Is Dividend Per Share (DPS) Important to Investors?
DPS is an important metric to investors because the amount a firm pays out in dividends directly translates to income for the shareholder. It is the most straightforward figure an investor can use to calculate their dividend payments from owning shares of a stock over time. A consistent increase in DPS over time can also give investors confidence that the company's management believes that its earnings growth can be sustained.




How Is DPS Calculated?
Dividends over the entire year, not including any special dividends, must be added together for a proper calculation of DPS, including interim dividends. Special dividends are dividends that are only expected to be issued once and are, therefore, not included. Interim dividends are dividends distributed to shareholders that have been declared and paid before a company has determined its annual earnings. If a company has issued common shares during the calculation period, the total number of ordinary shares outstanding is generally calculated using the weighted average of shares over the reporting period, which is the same figure used for earnings per share (EPS)




What Is the Retention Ratio?
The retention ratio, also called the plowback ratio, is the proportion of earnings kept back in the business as retained earnings. It refers to the percentage of net income that is retained to grow the business, rather than being paid out as dividends. It is the opposite of the payout ratio, which measures the percentage of profit paid out to shareholders as dividends. This metric helps investors determine how much money a company is keeping to reinvest in the company's operations. Typically, newer companies have high retention ratios as they are investing earnings back into the company to accelerate growth.
What Is a Dividend Policy?  

A dividend policy is a policy a company uses to structure its dividend payout. Put simply, a dividend policy outlines how a company will distribute its dividends to its shareholders. These structures detail specifics about payouts, including how often, when, and how much is distributed. There are three different types of dividend policies—stable, constant, and residual—each with its own benefits. Dividend policies aren't mandatory, as some companies choose not to reward shareholders with dividends.





Key Takeaways

A dividend policy dictates the structure of a company's dividend payout. Dividends are often part of a company's strategy.Stable, constant, and residual are the three types of dividend policy.Even though investors know companies are not required to pay dividends, many consider it a bellwether of that specific company's financial health.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor






   How a Dividend Policy Works  

Some companies choose to reward their common stock shareholders by paying them a dividend. A dividend is paid on a regular basis and represents a portion of the profits that these companies earn. This gives shareholders a regular stream of income, which is why dividend-paying stocks are a favorite for some investors.



Having a dividend policy in place is important for dividend-paying companies. This is a structure that highlights several key points, including:



How often dividends are paid out (monthly, quarterly, or annually)When they are paidHow much to pay shareholders



These decisions are made by a company's management team. It must also decide what, if any, other factors may have to be put in place that would influence dividend payments. An additional factor to consider includes providing shareholders with the option to take their dividends in cash or allowing them to reinvest them by purchasing additional shares through a dividend reinvestment program (DRIP).



There are three types of dividend policies: a stable dividend policy, a constant dividend policy, and a residual dividend policy. These are highlighted in more detail below. Companies that choose not to pay their shareholders a dividend have no dividend policy, as paying a dividend isn't mandatory. Their focus may be to grow their businesses by reinvesting their profits.






Some researchers suggest the dividend policy is theoretically irrelevant because investors can sell a portion of their shares or portfolio if they need funds. This is the dividend irrelevance theory, which infers that dividend payouts minimally affect a stock's price.


   Types of Dividend Policies  
  Stable Dividend Policy  

A stable dividend policy is the easiest and most commonly used. The goal of this policy is to provide shareholders with a steady and predictable dividend payout each year, which is what most investors seek. Investors receive a dividend regardless of whether earnings are up or down.



The goal is to align the dividend policy with the long-term growth of the company rather than with quarterly earnings volatility. This approach gives the shareholder more certainty concerning the amount and timing of the dividend.


  Constant Dividend Policy  

The primary drawback of the stable dividend policy is that investors may not see a dividend increase in boom years. Under the constant dividend policy, a company pays a percentage of its earnings as dividends every year. In this way, investors experience the full volatility of company earnings.



If earnings are up, investors get a larger dividend and if earnings are down, investors may not receive a dividend. The primary drawback to the method is the volatility of earnings and dividends. It is difficult to plan financially when dividend income is highly volatile.


  Residual Dividend Policy  

The residual dividend policy is also highly volatile, but some investors see it as the only acceptable dividend policy. With a residual dividend policy, the company pays out what dividends remain after the company has paid for capital expenditures (CAPEX) and working capital.



This approach is volatile, but it makes the most sense in terms of business operations. Investors do not want to invest in a company that justifies its increased debt with the need to pay dividends.






Despite the suggestion that the dividend policy may be irrelevant, it is income for shareholders. Company leaders are often the largest shareholders and have the most to gain from a generous dividend policy.


   Example of a Dividend Policy  

Kinder Morgan (KMI) shocked the investment world when in 2015 it cut its dividend payout by 75%, a move that saw its share price tank. But many investors found the company on solid footing and making sound financial decisions for their future.



In this case, cutting its dividend actually worked in its favor. Six months after the cut, Kinder Morgan saw its share price rise almost 25%. In early 2019, the company raised its dividend payout again by 25%, which helped to reinvigorate investor confidence in the energy company.




What Are Dividends?
Dividends are paid by companies to their common shareholders. They represent a portion of the corporate earnings or profits that companies want to share with their investors. Dividends are paid at regular intervals, either monthly, quarterly, or annually. As such, they provide a regular stream of income for investors. Dividends are commonly offered by companies whose primary focus isn't growth. Major companies like Coca-Cola, Apple, Microsoft, and Exxon Mobil.




What Are the Main Types of Dividends?
Dividend-paying companies have several options when it comes to the type of dividend they offer shareholders. They can pay dividends in cash, which is the most common type, or they can offer stock dividends, give shareholders additional (existing) shares in the company. Other, less common types of dividends are the scrip dividend, property dividend, and special dividend.




Do All Companies Pay Dividends to Their Shareholders?
No, not all companies pay dividends to their shareholders. And they are not mandatory. A company's board of directors decides what to do with its profits. Some choose to reinvest the money they earn back into the company to fuel growth. These companies have no dividend policy. Others choose to take a portion of the profits and pay dividends to their investors on a regular basis.


   The Bottom Line  

Dividend-paying stocks can give you a steady stream of income while adding value to your portfolio. But before you jump in, make sure you review the dividend policies of certain companies. These policies are set by corporate management and highlight how much to pay, when, and how often.
What Is a Dividend Rate?  

The dividend rate is the total expected dividend payments from an investment, fund, or portfolio expressed on an annualized basis plus any additional non-recurring dividends that an investor may receive during that period. Depending on the company's preferences and strategy, the dividend rate can be fixed or adjustable.



The dividend rate is closely related to dividend yield and is sometimes used interchangeably.





Key Takeaways

Dividend rate, expressed as a percentage or yield, is a financial ratio that shows how much a company pays out in dividends each year relative to its stock price.Companies who generate a healthy profit often pay out dividends.The dividend payout ratio is one way to assess the sustainability of a company's dividends.A dividend aristocrat is a company that has increased its dividends for at least 25 consecutive years.


   Understanding Dividend Rates  

The dividend rate is an estimate of the dividend-only return of an investment such as on a stock or mutual fund. Assuming the dividend amount is not raised or lowered, the rate will rise when the price of the stock falls. And conversely, it will fall when the price of the stock rises. Because dividend rates change relative to the stock price, it can often look unusually high for stocks that are falling in value quickly.



New companies that are relatively small, but still growing quickly, may pay a lower average dividend than mature companies in the same sectors. In general, mature companies that aren't growing very quickly pay the highest dividend yields. Consumer non-cyclical stocks that market staple items or utilities are examples of entire sectors that pay the highest average yield.


   How Is a Dividend Rate Calculated?  

The calculation of the dividend rate of an investment, fund or portfolio involves multiplying the most recent periodic dividend payments by the number of payment periods in one year.



For example, if a fund of investments pays a dividend of 50 cents quarterly and also pays an extra dividend of 12 cents per share because of a nonrecurring event from which the company benefited, the dividend rate is $2.12 per year (50 cents x 4 quarters + 12 cents = $2.12).



Companies that generate substantial cash flows generally pay out dividends. Conversely, businesses with rapid growth typically reinvest any cash generated back into the company and not to paying shareholder dividends. Cash-intensive companies that produce essential consumer products such as food, beverages, and household items, and those who provide health care, for example, usually spend less to grow their companies. Therefore, these businesses are more likely to distribute a percentage of income to shareholders as dividends.


   Dividend Payout Ratio  

Companies that pay dividends often prefer to maintain or slowly grow their dividend rates as a demonstration of stability and to reward shareholders. Businesses that cut dividends may be entering a financially weaker state that, most times, is accompanied by a corresponding drop in the stock price.



The dividend payout ratio is one way to assess the strength of a company's dividends. The calculation for a payout ratio is to divide dividend by net income and then multiply the sum by 100. When the payout ratio is lower, it is preferable as the company will be disbursing less of its net income to shareholder dividend payments. Further, as the business is paying out less, the firm and the payments are more sustainable. Conversely, companies with high payout ratios may have difficulty maintaining dividend payments, especially if an unforeseen event happens.


   Dividend Aristocrats  

Income-seeking investors often search for companies that demonstrate long histories of steadily growing dividend payments. These companies, dubbed dividend aristocrats, by definition must exhibit at least 25 years of consistent and significant annual dividend increases. Dividend aristocrats typically orbit among sectors like consumer products and health care, which tend to thrive in different economic climates. Kiplinger identified 65 high-dividend stocks to watch out for, in 2020. Some of the names that made the list include medical image machine maker Roper Technologies, paint maker Sherwin Williams, and alcohol distributor Brown-Forman.



Some of the best investment apps include features or functions that enable users to identify which companies offer dividend payouts.


   Real World Example  

Retail giant Walgreens Boots Alliance (WBA), the largest retail pharmacy in both the United States and Europe, stands out as a top dividend aristocrat. Its pharmacy business performed well, with 5.2% comparable sales growth and 5.9% comparable prescription growth. Given the company’s history of outperformance, analysts predict 8%-10% annualized growth in earnings per share, over the next several years. Furthermore, returns will likely be boosted by Walgreens’s 3.93% dividend yield, as well as a rising valuation.﻿﻿
What Is Dividend Recapitalization?  

A dividend recapitalization (also known as a dividend recap) happens when a company takes on new debt in order to pay a special dividend to private investors or shareholders. This usually involves a company owned by a private investment firm, which can authorize a dividend recapitalization as an alternative to the company declaring regular dividends, based on earnings.





Key Takeaways

Dividend recapitalization is when a private equity firm issues new debt so as to raise money to pay a special dividend to the investors who helped fund the initial purchase of the portfolio company.The dividend reduces the risk for the PE firm by providing early and immediate returns to shareholders but increases debt on the portfolio company's balance sheet.A dividend recapitalization is often undertaken as a way to free up money for the PE firm to give back to its investors, without necessitating an IPO, which might be risky.A dividend recapitalization is an infrequent occurrence, and different from a company declaring regular dividends, derived from earnings.


   Understanding Dividend Recapitalization  

The dividend recap has seen explosive growth, primarily as an avenue for private equity firms to recoup some or all of the money they used to purchase their stake in a business. The practice is generally not looked upon favorably by creditors or common shareholders as it reduces the credit quality of the company while benefiting only a select few.



Prior to exiting a portfolio company, some private equity firms and activist investors opt to incur additional debt on the balance sheet of the company in order to deliver early payments to their limited partners and/or managers. This reduces the risk for the firms and their shareholders.



This special dividend, in addition to not funding the portfolio company’s growth, weighs further on its balance sheet in the form of leverage. Significant new debt has the potential to become a drag in adverse market conditions, following the company’s exit.



Yet portfolio companies selected for dividend recapitalizations have historically been generally healthy and able to withstand additional debt. This is usually due to new developments, pushed for by private equity sponsors, which produce stronger cash flows. The healthy cash flows enable private equity sponsors to get immediate partial returns on their investment since other avenues of liquidity, such as public markets and mergers, take more time and effort.



Dividend recapitalizations reached a high during the 2006-2007 buyout boom.


   Example of a Dividend Recapitalization  

In December 2017, Dover Corp. announced that it would spin off its oilfield services business, Wellsite. Wellsite would become a separate company, focused on specialized equipment – specifically, artificial lifts, which squeeze the final drops from oil wells after they’ve been fully drilled. As part of the creation of this distinct entity, parent company Dover planned a dividend recapitalization of ~$700 million, leaving Wellsite with long-term debt of 3.4 X EBITDA. While regular dividends go to the preferred and common shareholders, in this example, the dividend funded a $1 billion buyback on Dover’s behalf, supported by activist investor Third Point, LLC.
What Is the Dividends Received Deduction (DRD)?  

The dividends received deduction (DRD) is a federal tax deduction in the United States that is given to certain corporations that get dividends from related entities. The amount of the dividend that a company can deduct from its income tax is tied to how much ownership the company has in the dividend-paying company. However, there are criteria that corporations must meet in order to qualify for the dividends received deduction (DRD). 





Key Takeaways

The dividends received deduction (DRD) applies to certain corporations that receive dividends from related entities and alleviates the potential consequences of triple taxation.There are different tiers of possible deductions, ranging from a 50% deduction of the dividend received up to a 100% deduction. There are several rules that corporate shareholders need to follow to be entitled to the DRD.For example, corporations cannot take a deduction for dividends received from a real estate investment trust (REIT) or capital gain dividends received from a regulated investment company.Dividends received from domestic corporations have different deduction rules than those received from foreign corporations.


   How the Dividends Received Deduction (DRD) Works  

The dividends received deduction allows a company that receives a dividend from another company to deduct that dividend from its income and reduce its income tax accordingly. However, several technical rules apply that must be followed for corporate shareholders to be entitled to the DRD. The amount of DRD that a company may claim depends on its percentage of ownership in the company paying the dividend.



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) made major changes to the taxation of corporations, including reducing the DRD percentages for dividends received from domestic corporations. In tax years beginning after Dec. 31, 2017, if the corporation receiving the dividend owns less than 20% of the corporation distributing the dividend, the receiving corporation can deduct (within certain limits) 50% of the dividends received. Subject to certain limits, the receiving corporation can deduct 65% of the dividends received if it owns 20% or more of the distributing corporation's stock. However, the 50% or 65% deduction limit does not apply if a corporation has a net operating loss (NOL) for the given tax year.﻿﻿



The deduction received seeks to alleviate the potential consequences of triple taxation. Triple taxation occurs when the same income is taxed in the hands of the company paying the dividend, then in the hands of the company receiving the dividend, and again when the ultimate shareholder is, in turn, paid a dividend.






Small business investment companies are allowed to deduct 100% of the dividends they receive from taxable domestic corporations.﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

Certain types of dividends are excluded from the DRD and corporations cannot claim a deduction for them. For example, corporations cannot take a deduction for dividends received from a real estate investment trust (REIT). If the company distributing the dividend is exempt from taxation under section 501 or 521 of the Internal Revenue Code for the tax year of the distribution or the preceding year, then the receiving company cannot take a deduction for the dividends received. A corporation cannot take a deduction on capital gain dividends received from a regulated investment company.﻿﻿



Dividends from foreign corporations have different deduction rules than those for domestic corporations. In most cases, corporations can deduct 100% of the foreign-source portion of dividends from 10%-owned foreign corporations. Corporations must hold the foreign corporation stock for at least 365 days to qualify for the deduction.﻿﻿


   Example of a Dividends Received Deduction (DRD)  

Assume that ABC Inc. owns 60% of its affiliate, DEF Inc. ABC has a taxable income of $10,000 and a dividend of $9,000 from DEF. Thus, it would be entitled to a DRD of $5,850, or 65% of $9,000.



Note that there are certain limitations on the total deduction for dividends a corporation may claim. In some cases, the corporation will need to determine if it has a net operating loss (NOL) by calculating the DRD without the 50% or 65% of the taxable income limit. For more information, see IRS Publication 542 or the instructions included in Form 1120, Schedule C (or the applicable schedule of your income tax return).
What Is a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)?  

A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) is a program that allows investors to reinvest their cash dividends into additional shares or fractional shares of the underlying stock on the dividend payment date. Although the term can apply to any automatic reinvestment arrangement set up through a brokerage or investment company, it generally refers to a formal program offered by a publicly traded corporation to existing shareholders. Around 650 companies and 500 closed-end funds currently do so.





Key Takeaways

A dividend reinvestment plan, or DRIP, automatically uses the proceeds generated from dividend stocks to purchase more shares of the company.This strategy allows investors to compound their returns over time by accumulating more shares, which themselves pay dividends that will be reinvested.Note that dividends paid into DRIPs are taxed as ordinary dividends even though they are used to purchase shares.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)  

Normally, when dividends are paid, they are received by shareholders as a check or a direct deposit into their bank account. DRIPs, which are also known as dividend reinvestment programs, give shareholders the option of reinvesting the amount of a declared dividend into additional shares, which are bought directly from the company. Because shares purchased through a DRIP typically come from the company’s own reserve, they are not marketable through stock exchanges. Shares must be redeemed directly through the company, also.



Most DRIPs allow investors to buy shares commission-free or for a nominal fee, and at a significant discount to the current share price; they may set dollar minimums. However, most do not allow reinvestments much lower than $10. While DRIPs are usually intended for existing shareholders, some companies do make them available to new investors, usually specifying a minimum purchase amount.



Although the shareholder does not actually receive the reinvested dividends, they still need to be reported as taxable income (unless they are held in a tax-advantaged account, like an IRA).






While most DRIPs use the cash proceeds from dividends to purchase additional shares, more complex methods can occur if the dividend itself is granted in stock in lieu of cash.






   Additional Considerations for DRIPs  

There are several advantages of purchasing shares through a DRIP, for both the company issuing the shares and the shareholder.


  Advantages for the Investor  

DRIPs offer shareholders a way to accumulate more shares without having to pay a commission. Many companies offer shares at a discount through their DRIP from 1% to 10% off the current share price. Between no commissions and a price discount, the cost basis for owning the shares can be significantly lower than if the shares were purchased on the open market. Through DRIPs, investors can also buy fractional shares, so every dividend dollar is really going to work.



Long term, the biggest advantage is the effect of automatic reinvestment on the compounding of returns. When dividends are increased, shareholders receive an increasing amount on each share they own, which can also purchase a larger number of shares. Over time, this increases the total return potential of the investment. Because more shares can be purchased whenever the stock price decreases, the long-term potential for bigger gains is increased.


  Advantages for the Company  

Dividend-paying companies also benefit from DRIPs in a couple of ways. First, when shares are purchased from the company for a DRIP, it creates more capital for the company to use. Second, shareholders who participate in a DRIP are less likely to sell their shares when the stock market declines. Partly that's because participants tend to be long-term investors and recognize the role their dividends play in the long-term growth of their portfolios. Of course, another factor is that DRIP-purchased shares are not as liquid as shares purchased on the open market—they can only be redeemed via the company.






Most DRIPs, such as the one discussed here, are sponsored by a company (issue-sponsored) through their transfer agent, who holds the shares. Note that some brokerages allow customers to participate in a transfer agent DRIP while keeping the shares at the brokerage firm. In a broker-sponsored DRIP, the broker buys the share using the dividend proceeds in the open market.


   Real-World Example of a DRIP  

The 3M company offers a DRIP program. Administered by the company's transfer agent, EQ Shareowner Services, it gives registered shareholders the option of using all or a portion of their dividends (designated either by dollar percentage or by number of shares) to buy shares; if they don't choose an option when they enroll in the plan, all their dividends will be reinvested. The company pays all fees and commissions.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal. Investors should consider engaging a qualified financial professional to determine a suitable investment strategy.
What Is the Dividend Yield?  

The dividend yield, expressed as a percentage, is a financial ratio (dividend/price) that shows how much a company pays out in dividends each year relative to its stock price.



The reciprocal of the dividend yield is the total dividends paid/net income which is the dividend payout ratio.





Key Takeaways

The dividend yield—displayed as a percentage—is the amount of money a company pays shareholders for owning a share of its stock divided by its current stock price.Mature companies are the most likely to pay dividends.Companies in the utility and consumer staple industries often have relatively higher dividend yields. Real estate investment trusts (REITs), master limited partnerships (MLPs), and business development companies (BDCs) pay higher than average dividends; however, the dividends from these companies are taxed at a higher rate.It's important for investors to keep in mind that higher dividend yields do not always indicate attractive investment opportunities because the dividend yield of a stock may be elevated as a result of a declining stock price. 












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding the Dividend Yield  

The dividend yield is an estimate of the dividend-only return of a stock investment. Assuming the dividend is not raised or lowered, the yield will rise when the price of the stock falls. And conversely, it will fall when the price of the stock rises. Because dividend yields change relative to the stock price, it can often look unusually high for stocks that are falling in value quickly.



New companies that are relatively small, but still growing quickly, may pay a lower average dividend than mature companies in the same sectors. In general, mature companies that aren't growing very quickly pay the highest dividend yields. Consumer non-cyclical stocks that market staple items or utilities are examples of entire sectors that pay the highest average yield.



Although the dividend yield among technology stocks is lower than average, the same general rule that applies to mature companies also applies to the technology sector. For example, as of June 2023, Qualcomm Incorporated (QCOM), an established telecommunications equipment manufacturer, had a trailing twelve months (TTM) dividend of $3.20. Using its current price of $119 as of June 30, 2023, its dividend yield would is 2.71%. Meanwhile, Block, Inc. (SQ), a somewhat newer mobile payments processor, pays no dividends at all.


  REITs, MLPs, and BDCs  

In some cases, the dividend yield may not provide that much information about what kind of dividend the company pays. For example, the average dividend yield in the market is very high amongst real estate investment trusts (REITs). However, those are the yields from ordinary dividends, which are different than qualified dividends in that the former is taxed as regular income while the latter is taxed as capital gains.



Along with REITs, master limited partnerships (MLPs) and business development companies (BDCs) typically have very high dividend yields. The structure of these companies is such that the U.S. Treasury requires them to pass on the majority of their income to their shareholders. This is referred to as a "pass-through" process, and it means that the company doesn't have to pay income taxes on profits that it distributes as dividends. However, the shareholder has to treat the dividend payments as ordinary income and pay taxes on them. Dividends from these types of companies (MLPs and BDCs) do not qualify for capital gains tax treatment.



While the higher tax liability on dividends from ordinary companies lowers the effective yield the investor has earned, even when adjusted for taxes, REITs, MLPs, and BDCs still pay dividends with a higher-than-average yield.


   Calculating the Dividend Yield  

The formula for dividend yield is as follows:















Dividend Yield


=



Annual Dividends Per Share


Price Per Share








\begin{aligned}&\text{Dividend Yield} = \frac{ \text{Annual Dividends Per Share} }{ \text{Price Per Share} } \\\end{aligned}


​Dividend Yield=Price Per ShareAnnual Dividends Per Share​​
The dividend yield can be calculated from the last full year's financial report. This is acceptable during the first few months after the company has released its annual report; however, the longer it has been since the annual report, the less relevant that data is for investors. Alternatively, investors can also add the last four quarters of dividends, which captures the trailing 12 months of dividend data. Using a trailing dividend number is acceptable, but it can make the yield too high or too low if the dividend has recently been cut or raised.
Because dividends are paid quarterly, many investors will take the last quarterly dividend, multiply it by four, and use the product as the annual dividend for the yield calculation. This approach will reflect any recent changes in the dividend, but not all companies pay an even quarterly dividend. Some firms, especially outside the U.S., pay a small quarterly dividend with a large annual dividend. If the dividend calculation is performed after the large dividend distribution, it will give an inflated yield.
Finally, some companies pay a dividend more frequently than quarterly. A monthly dividend could result in a dividend yield calculation that is too low. When deciding how to calculate the dividend yield, an investor should look at the history of dividend payments to decide which method will give the most accurate results.


   Advantages of Dividend Yields  

Historical evidence suggests that a focus on dividends may amplify returns rather than slow them down. For example, according to analysts at Hartford Funds, since 1970, 84% of the total returns from the S&P 500 are from dividends. This assumption is based on the fact that investors are likely to reinvest their dividends back into the S&P 500, which then compounds their ability to earn more dividends in the future.



For example, suppose an investor buys $10,000 worth of a stock with a dividend yield of 4% at a rate of a $100 share price. This investor owns 100 shares that all pay a dividend of $4 per share (100 x $4 = $400 total). Assume that the investor uses the $400 in dividends to purchase four more shares. The price would be adjusted on the ex-dividend date by $4 per share to $96 per share. Reinvesting would purchase 4.16 shares; dividend reinvestment programs allow for fractional share purchases. If nothing else changes, the next year the investor will have 104.16 shares worth $10,416. This amount can be reinvested into more shares once a dividend is declared, thus compounding gains similar to a savings account.


   Disadvantages of Dividend Yields  

While high dividend yields are attractive, it's possible they may be at the expense of the potential growth of the company. It can be assumed that every dollar a company is paying in dividends to its shareholders is a dollar that the company is not reinvesting to grow and generate more capital gains. Even without earning any dividends, shareholders have the potential to earn higher returns if the value of their stock increases while they hold it as a result of company growth.



It's not recommended that investors evaluate a stock based on its dividend yield alone. Dividend data can be old or based on erroneous information. Many companies have a very high yield as their stock is falling. If a company's stock experiences enough of a decline, it may reduce the amount of the dividend, or eliminate it altogether.



Investors should exercise caution when evaluating a company that looks distressed and has a higher-than-average dividend yield. Because the stock's price is the denominator of the dividend yield equation, a strong downtrend can increase the quotient of the calculation dramatically.



For example, General Electric Company's (GE) manufacturing and energy divisions began underperforming from 2015 through 2018, and the stock's price fell as earnings declined. The dividend yield jumped from 3% to more than 5% as the price dropped. As you can see in the following chart, the decline in the share price and eventual cut to the dividend offset any benefit of the high dividend yield.












   Dividend Yield vs. Dividend Payout Ratio  

When comparing measures of corporate dividends, it's important to note that the dividend yield tells you what the simple rate of return is in the form of cash dividends to shareholders. However, the dividend payout ratio represents how much of a company's net earnings are paid out as dividends. While the dividend yield is the more commonly used term, many believe the dividend payout ratio is a better indicator of a company's ability to distribute dividends consistently in the future. The dividend payout ratio is highly connected to a company's cash flow.



The dividend yield shows how much a company has paid out in dividends over the course of a year. The yield is presented as a percentage, not as an actual dollar amount. This makes it easier to see how much return the shareholder can expect to receive per dollar they have invested.


   Example of Dividend Yield   

Suppose Company A’s stock is trading at $20 and pays annual dividends of $1 per share to its shareholders. Suppose that Company B's stock is trading at $40 and also pays an annual dividend of $1 per share. 



This means Company A's dividend yield is 5% ($1 / $20), while Company B's dividend yield is only 2.5% ($1 / $40). Assuming all other factors are equivalent, an investor looking to use their portfolio to supplement their income would likely prefer Company A over Company B because it has double the dividend yield.




What Does the Dividend Yield Tell You?
The dividend yield is a financial ratio that tells you the percentage of a company’s share price that it pays out in dividends each year. For example, if a company has a $20 share price and pays a dividend of $1 per year, its dividend yield would be 5%. If a company’s dividend yield has been steadily increasing, this could be because they are increasing their dividend, because their share price is declining, or both. Depending on the circumstances, this may be seen as either a positive or a negative sign by investors.




Why Is Dividend Yield Important?
Some investors, such as retirees, are heavily reliant on dividends for their income. For these investors, the dividend yield of their portfolio could have a meaningful effect on their personal finances, making it very important for these investors to select dividend-paying companies with long track records and clear financial strength. For other investors, dividend yield may be less significant, such as for younger investors who are more interested in growth companies that can retain their earnings and use them to finance their growth.




Is a High Dividend Yield Good?
Yield-oriented investors will generally look for companies that offer high dividend yields, but it is important to dig deeper in order to understand the circumstances leading to the high yield. One approach taken by investors is to focus on companies that have a long track record of maintaining or raising their dividends, while also verifying that those companies have the underlying financial strength to continue paying dividends well into the future. To do so, investors can refer to other metrics such as the current ratio and the dividend payout ratio.




Which Stock Has the Highest Dividend Yield?
This will depend on the timeframe you look at. Dividend yields change daily as the prices of shares that pay dividends rise or fall. Some stocks with very high dividend yields may be the result of a recent downturn in share price, and oftentimes that dividend will be slashed or eliminated by the managers if the stock price does not soon recover.


   The Bottom Line  

Many stocks pay dividends to reward their shareholders and to signal sound financial footing to the investing public. The dividend yield is a measure of how high a company's dividends are relative to its share price. High-yielding dividend stocks can be a good buy for some value investors, but may also signal that a stock's share price has recently fallen by quite a bit, making the legacy dividend comparatively higher in relation to the share price. A high dividend yield could also suggest that a company is distributing too much profits as dividends rather than investing in growth opportunities or new projects.



Correction - January 10, 2023: This article was corrected from a previous version that incorrectly stated the formula for the dividend payout ratio.
What Is Documentary Collection?  

Documentary collection is a form of trade finance in which an exporter is paid for its goods by an importer after the two parties' banks exchange the required documents. The exporter's bank collects funds from the importer's bank in exchange for documents releasing title to the shipped merchandise, usually after the goods arrive at the importer's location.





Key Takeaways

Documentary collection is method of trade finance in which an exporter's bank forwards documents to an importer's bank and collects payment for shipped goods.Documentary collection is less common than advance cash payment and open account terms, particularly in countries with weak enforcement of contracts.Documents against payment require the importer to pay the amount of the draft at sight. Documents against acceptance require payment by a specified date.


   Understanding Documentary Collection  

Documentary collection is so-called because the exporter receives payment from the importer in exchange for the shipping documents. Shipping documents are required for the buyer to clear the goods through customs and take delivery. They include a commercial invoice, certificate of origin, insurance certificate, and packing list. 



A key document in a documentary collection is the bill of exchange or draft, which is a formal demand for payment from the exporter to importer.



Documentary collection is less common than other forms of trade finance, such as letters of credit and advance payment. It is less expensive than some methods but also somewhat riskier, so is generally limited to transactions between parties who have developed trust or are located in countries with strong legal systems and contract enforcement.






A sight draft reduces the exporter's risk because the buyer's bank will not release the documents without payment from the buyer, but neither side's bank assumes any financial responsibility in a documentary collection transaction.


   Two Types of Documentary Collection  

Documentary collections falls into two basic categories, depending on when the payment is made to the exporter:



Documents against payment require the importer to pay the face amount of the draft at sight. In other words, the payment must be made to the bank when the buyer is presented with the draft, and before any shipping documents are released. This is the most common form of documentary collection because of the reduced risk for the seller.Documents against acceptance require the importer to pay on a specified date. Once the buyer accepts the time draft, the bank releases the documents to the buyer.


   Steps in Export and Documentary Collection  

Below is the step-by-step process:



The sale is made when the buyer and seller agree on the amount to be paid, the shipping details, and that the transaction will be a documentary collection. Then, the exporter delivers the goods to the port or location where the merchandise will be exported from, which is usually through a freight forwarder.
The documents are prepared and sent to the exporter's bank, which is also known as the remitting bank. The exporter's bank then forwards the documents to the importer’s bank, which is known as the collecting bank.
The importer's or buyer's bank receives the documents and notifies the buyer that documents have been received. The buyer's bank requests payment from the buyer in exchange for the documents.
Once the buyer's bank has been paid, or the buyer has accepted the time draft, the bank releases the documents to the buyer. The buyer uses the documents to collect the merchandise.


   Other Considerations: The Risks of Documentary Collections  

The exporter's risk is higher with a time draft versus a sight draft, as the buyer's bank would have released the documents with the buyer's acceptance of the time draft—meaning the buyer could already have possession of the merchandise by the time payment is due.



The seller's risk is limited with a sight draft. This is because the buyer's bank would not release the documents needed to take possession of the goods before payment is made. At worst, the seller would have to find another buyer or pay to have the goods shipped back.
What Is the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act?  

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act is legislation that was passed by the U.S. Congress in response to financial industry behavior that led to the financial crisis of 2007–2008. It sought to make the U.S. financial system safer for consumers and taxpayers.



Named for sponsors Sen. Christopher J. Dodd (D-Conn.) and Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.), the act contains numerous provisions, spelled out over 848 pages, that were to be implemented over a period of several years.





Key Takeaways

The Dodd-Frank Act targeted financial system sectors that were believed to have caused the 2007–2008 financial crisis.Leading up to 2007, lax regulations led to extremely risky lending practices, which caused a housing sector bubble that ultimately burst and drove the global crisis, the need for public bailouts of financial institutions, and the recession.The institutions considered responsible for the 2007–2008 financial crisis included banks, insurance companies, investment banking firms, mortgage lenders, and credit rating agencies.Critics of the law argue that the regulatory burdens it imposes could make U.S. firms less competitive than their foreign counterparts.In 2018, Congress passed a new law that rolled back some of Dodd-Frank’s restrictions.


   Understanding the Dodd-Frank Act  

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act is a massive piece of financial reform legislation that was passed in 2010, during the Obama administration.



Commonly known as the Dodd-Frank Act, or Dodd-Frank, it established a number of new government agencies tasked with overseeing the various components of the law and, by extension, various aspects of the financial system.



The 2007–2008 financial crisis is perhaps the worst economic catastrophe to befall the country (and the world) since the Wall Street crash in 1929. Broadly speaking, it was caused by greed-driven behavior and lax oversight of financial institutions.



The loosening of financial industry regulations in the decades leading up to 2007 allowed various types of institutions in the U.S. financial services industry to lend money in ways that were riskier than ever before. The housing sector in particular experienced massive growth that couldn't be supported.



The bubble burst, sending the banking industry and global stock markets into a downfall. It created the worst global recession in generations.



Dodd-Frank was created to keep anything similar from ever happening again.






The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was intended to prevent another financial crisis like the one in 2007–2008.


   Components of the Dodd-Frank Act  

Here are some of the law’s key provisions and how they work:



Financial Stability: Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the Orderly Liquidation Authority monitor the financial stability of major financial firms. The failure of these companies (deemed too big to fail) could have a serious negative impact on the U.S. economy. The law also provides for liquidations or restructurings via the Orderly Liquidation Fund. This fund was established to assist with the dismantling of financial companies that have been placed in receivership to prevent tax dollars from being used to prop up such firms. The council has the authority to break up banks that are considered so large as to pose systemic risk. It can also force banks to increase their reserve requirements. Similarly, the new Federal Insurance Office was tasked with identifying and monitoring insurance companies that were also considered too big to fail.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), established under Dodd-Frank, was given the job of preventing predatory mortgage lending and helping consumers understand the terms of a mortgage before agreeing to it. This reflected the widespread sentiment that the subprime mortgage market was the underlying cause of the 2007–2008 catastrophe. The CFPB deters mortgage brokers from earning higher commissions for closing loans with higher fees and/or higher interest rates. It requires that mortgage originators not steer potential borrowers to the loan that will result in the highest payment for the originator. The CFPB also governs other types of consumer lending, including credit and debit cards, and addresses consumer complaints. It requires lenders, excluding automobile lenders, to disclose information in a form that is easy for consumers to read and understand. Such an example is the simplified terms now on credit card applications.
Volcker Rule: The Volcker Rule restricts how banks can invest, limits speculative trading, and eliminates proprietary trading. Banks are not allowed to be involved with hedge funds or private equity firms, which are considered too risky. To minimize possible conflicts of interest, financial firms are not allowed to trade proprietarily without sufficient "skin in the game.” The Volcker Rule is clearly a pushback in the direction of the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, which first recognized the inherent dangers of financial entities extending commercial and investment banking services at the same time. The act also contains a provision for regulating derivatives, such as the credit default swaps that were widely blamed for contributing to the 2007–2008 financial crisis. Dodd-Frank set up centralized exchanges for swaps trading to reduce the possibility of counterparty default. It required greater disclosure of swaps trading information to increase transparency in those markets. The Volcker Rule also regulates financial firms’ use of derivatives in an attempt to prevent “too big to fail” institutions from taking large risks that might wreak havoc on the broader economy.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Office of Credit Ratings: Dodd-Frank established the SEC Office of Credit Ratings because credit rating agencies had been accused of giving out misleading favorable investment ratings in the lead-up to the financial crisis. The office is charged with ensuring that agencies provide meaningful and reliable credit ratings of the businesses, municipalities, and other entities that they evaluate.
Whistleblower Program: Dodd-Frank also strengthened and expanded the existing whistleblower program promulgated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) of 2002. Specifically, it established a mandatory bounty program under which whistleblowers can receive from 10% to 30% of the proceeds from a litigation settlement, broadened the scope of a covered employee by including employees of a company’s subsidiaries and affiliates, and extended the statute of limitations under which whistleblowers can bring forward a claim against their employer from 90 to 180 days after a violation is discovered.


   The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act  

When Donald Trump was elected president in 2016, he pledged to repeal Dodd-Frank. Siding with critics, the U.S. Congress passed the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, which rolled back significant portions of the Dodd-Frank Act.



It was signed into law by then-President Trump on May 24, 2018.



These are some of the provisions of that law, and some of the areas in which previous standards were loosened:



The new law eased the Dodd-Frank regulations for small and regional banks by increasing the asset threshold for the application of prudential standards, stress test requirements, and mandatory risk committees.
For institutions that have custody of clients’ assets but do not function as lenders or traditional bankers, the new law provided for lower capital requirements and leverage ratios.
The new law exempted escrow requirements for residential mortgage loans held by a depository institution or credit union under certain conditions. It also directed the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) to set up standards for Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae to consider alternative credit scoring methods.
The law exempted lenders with assets of less than $10 billion from requirements of the Volcker Rule and imposed less stringent reporting and capital norms on small lenders.
The law required that the three major credit reporting agencies allow consumers to freeze their credit files free of charge as a way of deterring fraud.



After Joseph Biden was elected president in 2020, the CFPB focused on rescinding rules from the Trump era that were in direct conflict with the charter of the CFPB.



The Biden administration has also announced its intent to reestablish rules against other forms of predatory lending, such as payday loans, and on June 30, 2023, Bided signed a law to overturn the OCC's payday lending regulations. Additionally, subprime auto loan practices are being addressed by the CFPB.


   Criticism of the Dodd-Frank Act  

Proponents of Dodd-Frank believed that the law would prevent the economy from experiencing a crisis like that of 2007–2008 and protect consumers from many of the abuses that contributed to the crisis.



Detractors, however, have argued that the law could harm the competitiveness of U.S. firms relative to their foreign counterparts. In particular, they contend that its regulatory compliance requirements unduly burden community banks and smaller financial institutions, despite the fact that they played no role in causing the financial crisis.



Such financial world notables as former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, Blackstone Group L.P. (BX) CEO Stephen Schwarzman, activist Carl Icahn, and JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) CEO Jamie Dimon also argued that, while each institution is undoubtedly safer due to the capital constraints imposed by Dodd-Frank, the constraints make for a more illiquid market overall.



The lack of liquidity can be especially potent in the bond market, where all securities are not marked to market and many bonds lack a constant supply of buyers and sellers. The higher reserve requirements under Dodd-Frank mean that banks must keep a higher percentage of their assets in cash. This decreases the amount that they are able to hold in marketable securities.



In effect, this limits the bond market-making role that banks have traditionally undertaken. With banks unable to play the part of a market maker, prospective buyers are likely to have a harder time finding counteracting sellers. More importantly, prospective sellers may find it more difficult to find counteracting buyers.




What Was the Purpose of the Dodd-Frank Act?
Dodd-Frank is intended to curb the extremely risky financial industry activities that led to the financial crisis of 2007–2008. Its goal was, and still is, to protect consumers and taxpayers from egregious practices like predatory lending.




Is the Dodd-Frank Act Still in Effect?
Yes, it is; however, its regulatory strength was diluted with the passage of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act in 2018. Still, certain aspects, such as the bank stress tests it called for, are in use today. The Federal Reserve publishes stress test results regularly.




What Are Some Criticisms of the Dodd-Frank Act?
Detractors of the Dodd-Frank Act have argued that the law could harm the competitiveness of U.S. firms relative to their foreign counterparts. In particular, critics contend that its regulatory compliance requirements unduly burden community banks and smaller financial institutions—despite the fact that they played no role in causing the financial crisis. Several financial world notables have also argued that, while each institution is undoubtedly safer due to the capital constraints imposed by Dodd-Frank, the constraints also make for a more illiquid market overall.




What Was the Impact of the 2018 Rollback of Dodd-Frank Regulations?
In 2018, the passage of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act rolled back numerous regulations put in place by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the Dodd-Frank rules, banks with $50 billion in assets were subject to more strenuous capital and liquidity requirements, but the new law in 2018 increased the asset threshold to $250 billion. This change relaxed the regulations for smaller and medium-sized banks. When Silicon Valley Bank collapsed in March 2023, observers argued that the lack of regulatory scrutiny on financial institutions of this size played a key role in the bank's failure.


   The Bottom Line  

The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in 2010, was a direct response to the financial crisis of 2007–2008 and the ensuing government bailouts under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP).



This law established a wide range of reforms throughout the entire financial system, with the purpose of preventing a repeat of the 2007–2008 crisis and the need for further government bailouts. The Dodd-Frank Act also included additional protections for consumers.



Although the Trump administration reversed and weakened several aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act, particularly those affecting consumers, the Biden administration intends to reestablish and strengthen the previous reversals to protect individuals who may be subject to predatory lending practices in industries like for-profit education and automobiles.
What Are Dogs of the Dow?  

"Dogs of the Dow" is an investment strategy that attempts to beat the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) each year by leaning portfolios toward high-yield investments. The general concept is to allocate money to the 10 highest dividend-yielding, blue-chip stocks among the 30 components of the DJIA. This strategy requires rebalancing at the beginning of each calendar year.





Key Takeaways

The Dogs of the Dow is a well-known strategy first published in 1991.The strategy attempts to maximize the yield of investments by buying the 10 highest-paying dividend stocks available from the DJIA each year.The strategy's track record shows that its returns closely trail those of the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) but that returns will vary given the time period analyzed.


   Understanding Dogs of the Dow  

Because the Dow is one of the oldest and most widely followed indexes in the world—and generally is seen as a barometer for the broader market—it is not uncommon for market strategists to base investing techniques on some components of the DJIA. The main reason to follow the Dogs is that it presents a straightforward formula designed to perform roughly in line with the Dow.



Though not an entirely new concept, this strategy first became a popular fixture in 1991, following the publication of Michael B. O’Higgins’ book, Beating the Dow. In the book, O’Higgins also coined the name “Dogs of the Dow.”


   Dogs of the Dow Methodology  

Dogs of the Dow relies on the premise that blue-chip companies do not alter their dividend to reflect trading conditions and, therefore, the dividend is a measure of the average worth of the company. In contrast, the stock price does fluctuate throughout the business cycle.



This should mean that companies with a high dividend relative to stock price are near the bottom of their business cycle, so their stock price likely would increase faster than companies with low dividend yields. In this scenario, an investor reinvesting in high-dividend-yielding companies annually would hope to outperform the overall market.



There are many ways to purchase these securities. You can hand-pick individual stocks and build your own portfolio, invest directly in the Dow through exchange-traded funds (ETFs), or you can follow the Dogs of the Dow strategy—whose stocks offer better yields than the Dow as a whole. Often, in fact, the Dogs have been able to outperform the Dow over the course of the year.



The 2023 Dogs of the Dow are listed below.











The 2023 Dogs of the Dow




 
Ticker
Company 
Dividend Yield


1
VZ
Verizon
6.62%


2
DOW
Dow
5.56%


3
INTC
Intel
5.52%


4
WBA
Walgreens
5.14%


5
MMM
3M
4.97%


6
IBM
IBM
4.68%


7
AMGN
Amgen
3.24%


8
CSCO
Cisco
3.19%


9
CVX
Chevron
3.16%


10
JPM
JP Morgan Chase
2.98%



As of Dec. 30, 2022


   How the Dogs of the Dow Strategy Works  

The idea is to make stock picking somewhat easy and relatively safe, the latter because the universe is limited to blue-chip stocks. As a tactic, Dogs of the Dow goes like this—after the stock market closes on the last day of the year, select the 10-highest dividend-yielding stocks in the DJIA.



Then, on the first trading day of the new year, invest an equal dollar amount in each of them. Hold the portfolio for a year, then repeat the process at the beginning of each subsequent year.



For most nonprofessionals, though, investing is never that simple, especially with the myriad of strategies out there. So, it behooves the average individual investor to understand what they are doing with their money.



Hence, Dogs of the Dow tools abound. Just browse the Internet to see Dogs of the Dow opinions, commentary, analyses, calculators, charts, forecasts, and stock screeners. There's even a Dogs of the Dow website.



Because this is intended to be a low-maintenance, long-term strategy that mimics the performance of the DJIA, it shouldn't be surprising that the long-term results are similar. There have been years when the Dow has outperformed the Dogs and vice-versa, but its performance over time is impressive.


   Sample Performance Comparison  

The Dogs of the Dow experienced greater losses during the financial crisis of 2008 than the DJIA, but in the decade and more that followed it only slightly underperformed the bellwether index.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



From 2013 to 2023, the Dogs of the Dow had a trailing total return of 10.02% compared to a 11.48% trailing total return of the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA).



The cumulative effect of this performance year after year shows that despite losing more in 2008 than the index, the strategy made up ground and turned in a respectable performance for the decade with a very similar result to the DJIA. In the last five years, from 2018 to 2023, however, the Dogs have trailed the DJIA with a wider gap, turning in trailing total returns of 5.29% compared to the DJIA's trailing total return of 8.39%.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021




Is There an ETF That Tracks the Dogs of the Dow?
There isn't an ETF that specifically invests in the Dogs of the Dow strategy by investing in the top 10 dividend-performing companies in the Dow; however, there are ETFs that invest in a similar strategy with a dividend focus on the Dow, such as the Invesco Dow Jones Industrial Average Dividend ETF (DJD) and the ALPS International Sector Dividend Dogs ETF (IDOG).




What Companies Are in the Dogs of the Dow?
The companies that make up the Dogs of the Dow in 2023 areVerizonDowIntelWalgreens3MIBMAmgenCiscoChevronJP Morgan Chase




How Are the Dogs of the Dow Chosen?
The strategy in choosing the Dogs of the Dow is simple. The 10 companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average that pay the highest dividend yield as of the last trading day of the year are chosen to be in the Dogs of the Dow.


   The Bottom Line  

Though the Dow of Dogs has slightly underperformed the DJIA in the past 10 years, it still works as a good dividend strategy if investors are looking for fixed payments in their portfolio. If investors are looking for pure returns, then the DJIA or the S&P 500 work as a better overall investment for the long term.
What Is a Doji?  

A doji (dо̄ji) is a name for a trading session in which a security has open and close levels that are virtually equal, as represented by a candle shape on a chart. Based on this shape, technical analysts attempt to make assumptions about price behavior. Doji candlesticks can look like a cross, inverted cross, or plus sign.



Although rare, a doji candlestick generally signals a trend reversal indication for analysts, although it can also signal indecision about future prices. Broadly, candlestick charts can reveal information about market trends, sentiment, momentum, and volatility. The patterns that form in the candlestick charts are signals of such market actions and reactions.





Key Takeaways

Doji are used in technical analysis to help identify securities price patterns.A doji names a trading session in which a security has an open and close that are virtually equal, which resembles a candlestick on a chart.The word doji comes from the Japanese phrase meaning “the same thing.”A doji candlestick is a neutral indicator that provides little information. They are rare, so they are not reliable for spotting things like price reversals.Doji formations come in three major types: gravestone, long-legged, and dragonfly.


   What Does a Doji Tell Investors?  

In Japanese, “doji” (どうじ/ 同事)  means “the same thing,” a reference to the rarity of having the open and close price for a security be exactly the same. Depending on where the open/close line falls, a doji can be described as a gravestone, long-legged, or dragonfly, as shown below.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



Technical analysts believe that all known information about the stock is reflected in the price, which is to say the price is efficient. Still, past price performance has nothing to do with future price performance, and the actual price of a stock may have nothing to do with its real or intrinsic value. Therefore, technical analysts use tools to help sift through the noise to find the highest-probability trades. One tool was developed by a Japanese rice trader named Honma from the town of Sakata in the 18th century, and it was introduced to the West in the 1990s by Steve Nison: the candlestick chart.



Every candlestick pattern has four sets of data that help to define its shape. Based on this shape, analysts are able to make assumptions about price behavior. Each candlestick is based on an open, high, low, and close. The time period or tick interval used does not matter. The filled or hollow bar created by the candlestick pattern is called the body. The lines that extend out of the body are called shadows. A stock that closes higher than its opening will have a hollow candlestick. If the stock closes lower, the body will have a filled candlestick. One of the most important candlestick formations is called the doji.



A doji, referring to both singular and plural forms, is created when the open and close for a stock are virtually the same. Doji tend to look like a cross or plus sign and have small or nonexistent bodies. From an auction theory perspective, doji represent indecision on the side of both buyers and sellers. Everyone is equally matched, so the price goes nowhere; buyers and sellers are in a standoff.



Some analysts interpret this as a sign of price reversal. However, it may also be a time when buyers or sellers are gaining momentum for continuing a trend. Doji are commonly seen in periods of consolidation and can help analysts identify potential price breakouts.


   Using a Doji to Predict a Price Reversal  

The following chart shows a gravestone doji in Cyanotech Corp.’s (CYAN) stock from February 2018 following a significant high-volume uptrend, which could indicate a bearish reversal over the near term following the breakout.















Gravestone Doji Example.



In this example, the gravestone doji could predict a further breakdown from the current levels to close the gap near the 50- or 200-day moving averages at $4.16 and $4.08, respectively.



Traders would also take a look at other technical indicators to confirm a potential breakdown, such as the relative strength index (RSI) or the moving average convergence/divergence (MACD). Day traders may also put a stop-loss just above the upper shadow at around $5.10, in this case, although intermediate-term traders may place a higher stop-loss to avoid being limited out of the trade.


   What Is the Difference Between a Doji and a Spinning Top?  

Candlestick charts can be used to discern quite a bit of information about market trends, sentiment, momentum, and volatility. The patterns that form in the candlestick charts are signals of such market actions and reactions.



Doji and spinning tops show that buying and selling pressures are essentially equal, but there are differences between the two and how technical analysts read them.



Spinning tops are quite similar to doji, but their bodies are larger, where the open and close are relatively close. A candle’s body generally can represent up to 5% of the size of the entire candle’s range to be classified as a doji. Any more than that, and it becomes a spinning top.



A spinning top also signals weakness in the current trend, but not necessarily a reversal. If either a doji or spinning top is spotted, look to other indicators such as Bollinger Bands® to determine the context to decide if they are indicative of trend neutrality or reversal.






Doji and spinning top candles are commonly seen as part of larger patterns, such as the star formations by technical analysts. On their own, they both indicate neutrality in price.


   Limitations of a Doji  

In isolation, a doji candlestick is a neutral indicator that provides little information. Moreover, a doji is not a common occurrence; therefore, it is not a reliable tool for spotting things like price reversals. When a reversal does occur, it isn’t always reliable, either. There is no assurance that the price will continue in the expected direction following the confirmation candle.



The size of the doji’s tail or wick coupled with the size of the confirmation candle can sometimes mean the entry point for a trade is a long way from the stop-loss location. This means traders will need to find another location for the stop-loss, or they may need to forgo the trade because too large of a stop-loss may not justify the potential reward of the trade.



Estimating the potential reward of a doji-informed trade also can be difficult because candlestick patterns don’t typically provide price targets. Other techniques, such as other candlestick patterns, indicators, or strategies, are required to exit the trade, when and if profitable.




What is a dragonfly doji candle?
The dragonfly doji is a candlestick pattern stock that traders analyze as a signal that a potential reversal in a security’s price is about to occur. Depending on past price action, this reversal could be to the downside or the upside. The dragonfly doji forms when the stock’s open, close, and high prices are equal. It’s not a common occurrence, nor is it a reliable signal that a price reversal will soon happen. The dragonfly doji pattern also can be a sign of indecision in the marketplace. For this reason, traders will often combine it with other technical indicators before making trade decisions.




What is a gravestone doji candle?
A gravestone doji candle is a pattern that technical stock traders use as a signal that a stock price may soon undergo a bearish reversal. This pattern forms when the open, low, and closing prices of an asset are close to each other and have a long upper shadow. The shadow in a candlestick chart is the thin part showing the price action for the day as it differs from high to low prices. While traders will frequently use this doji as a signal to enter a short position or exit a long position, most traders will review other indicators before taking action on a trade.




What is a long-legged doji candle?
The long-legged doji is a type of candlestick pattern that signals to traders a point of indecision about the future direction of a security’s price. This doji has long upper and lower shadows and roughly the same opening and closing prices. In addition to signaling indecision, the long-legged doji can also indicate the beginning of a consolidation period where price action may soon break out to form a new trend. These doji can be a sign that sentiment is changing and that a trend reversal is on the horizon.




Is a doji bullish or bearish?
A doji formation generally can be interpreted as a sign of indecision, meaning neither bulls nor bears can successfully take over. Of its variations, the dragonfly doji is seen as a bullish reversal pattern that occurs at the bottom of downtrends. The gravestone doji is read as a bearish reversal at the peak of uptrends.




How can a doji be used in cryptocurrency trading?
As with stocks and other securities, the formation of a doji candlestick pattern can signal investor indecision about a cryptocurrency asset.


   The Bottom Line  

A doji candle chart occurs when the opening and closing prices for a security are just about identical. If this price is close to the low it is known as a "gravestone," close to the high a "dragonfly", and toward the middle a "long-legged" doji. The name doji comes from the Japanese word meaning "the same thing" since both the open and close are the same. A chart depicting a doji suggests that no clear direction has been established for this security - it is a sign of indecision, or uncertainty in future prices. The harami pattern is another signal in the market that is used in conjunction with the doji to identify a bullish or bearish turn away from indecision.
What Is Dollar-Cost Averaging?  

Investing can be challenging. Even experienced investors who try to time the market to buy at the most opportune moments can come up short.



Dollar-cost averaging is a strategy that can make it easier to deal with uncertain markets by making purchases automatic. It also supports an investor's effort to invest regularly.



Dollar-cost averaging involves investing the same amount of money in a target security at regular intervals over a certain period of time, regardless of price. By using dollar-cost averaging, investors may lower their average cost per share and reduce the impact of volatility on the their portfolios.



In effect, this strategy eliminates the effort required to attempt to time the market to buy at the best prices.



Dollar-cost averaging is also known as the constant dollar plan.





Key Takeaways

Dollar-cost averaging is the practice of systematically investing equal amounts of money at regular intervals, regardless of the price of a security.Dollar-cost averaging can reduce the overall impact of price volatility and lower the average cost per share.By buying regularly in up and down markets, investors buy more shares at lower prices and fewer shares at higher prices.Dollar-cost averaging aims to prevent a poorly timed lump sum investment at a potentially higher price.Beginning and long-time investors can both benefit from dollar-cost averaging.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   How Dollar-Cost Averaging Works  

Dollar-cost averaging is a simple tool that an investor can use to build savings and wealth over the long term. It is also a way for an investor to ignore short-term volatility in the broader markets.



A prime example of long-term dollar-cost averaging is its use in 401(k) plans, in which employees invest regularly regardless of the price of the investment.



With a 401(k) plan, employees can choose the amount they wish to contribute as well as those investments offered by the plan in which to invest. Then, investments are made automatically every pay period. Depending on the markets, employees might see a larger or smaller number securities added to their accounts.



Dollar-cost averaging can also be used outside of 401(k) plans. For instance, investors can use it to make regular purchases of mutual or index funds, whether in another tax-advantaged account such as a traditional IRA or a taxable brokerage account.



Dollar-cost averaging is one of the best strategies for beginning investors looking to trade ETFs. Additionally, many dividend reinvestment plans allow investors to dollar-cost average by making purchases regularly.






   Benefits of Dollar-Cost Averaging  

Dollar cost averaging can lower the average amount you spend on investments.It reinforces the practice of investing regularly to build wealth over time.It's automatic and can take concerns about when to invest out of your hands.It removes the pitfalls of market timing, such as buying only when prices have already risen.It can ensure that you're already in the market and ready to buy when events send prices higher.It takes emotion out of your investing and prevents you from potentially damaging your portfolio's returns.


   Who Should Use Dollar-Cost Averaging?  

The investment strategy of dollar-cost averaging can be used by any investor who wants to take advantage of its benefits, which include a potentially lower average cost, automatic investing over regular intervals of time, and a method that relieves them of the stress of having to make purchase decisions under pressure when the market is volatile.



Dollar-cost averaging may be especially useful to beginning investors who don't yet have the experience or expertise to judge the most opportune moments to buy.



It can also be a reliable strategy for long-term investors who are committed to investing regularly but don't have the time or inclination to watch the market and time their orders.



However, dollar-cost averaging isn't for everyone. It isn't necessarily appropriate for those investing time periods when prices are trending steadily in one direction or the other. Be sure to consider your outlook for an investment plus the broader market when making the decision to use dollar-cost averaging.






Bear in mind that the repeated investing called for by dollar-cost averaging may result in higher transaction costs compared to investing a lump sum of money once.


   Special Considerations  

It's important to note that dollar-cost averaging works well as a method of buying an investment over a specific period of time when the price fluctuates up and down. If the price rises continuously, those using dollar-cost averaging end up buying fewer shares. If it declines continuously, they may continue buying when they should be on the sidelines.



So, the strategy cannot protect investors against the risk of declining market prices. Like the outlook of many long-term investors, the strategy assumes that prices, though they may drop at times, will ultimately rise.



Using this strategy to buy an individual stock without researching a company's details could prove detrimental, as well. That's because an investor might continue to buy more stock when they otherwise would stop buying or exit the position.



For less-informed investors, the strategy is far less risky when used to buy index funds rather than individual stocks.



Investors who use a dollar-cost averaging strategy will generally lower their cost basis in an investment over time. The lower cost basis will lead to less of a loss on investments that decline in price and generate greater gains on investments that increase in price.


   Example of Dollar-Cost Averaging  

Joe works at ABC Corp. and has a 401(k) plan. He receives a paycheck of $1,000 every two weeks. Joe decides to allocate 10% or $100 of his pay to his employer’s plan every pay period.



He chooses to contribute 50% of his allocation to a large cap mutual fund and 50% to an S&P 500 index fund. Every two weeks 10%, or $100, of Joe’s pre-tax pay will buy $50 worth of each of these two funds regardless of the fund's price.



The table below shows the half of Joe's $100 contributions that went to the S&P 500 index fund over 10 pay periods. Throughout 10 paychecks, Joe invested a total of $500, or $50 per week. The price of the fund increased and decreased over that time.



The results of dollar-cost averaging:



Joe spent $500 in total over the 10 pay periods and bought 47.71 shares.



He paid an average price of $10.48 ($500/47.71).



Joe bought different share amounts as the index fund increased and decreased in value due to market fluctuations.



The results if Joe spent one lump sum:



Say that, instead of using dollar-cost averaging, Joe spent his $500 at one time in pay period 4. He paid $11 per share.



That would have resulted in a purchase of 45.45 shares ($500/$11).



There was no way for Joe to know the best time to buy. By using dollar-cost averaging, though, he was able to take advantage of several price drops despite the fact that the share price increased to over $11. He ended up with more shares (47.71) at a lower average price ($10.48).












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2020




Is Dollar-Cost Averaging a Good Idea?
It can be. When dollar-cost averaging, you invest the same amount at regular intervals and by doing so, hopefully lower your average purchase price. You will already be in the market when prices drop and when they rise. For instance, you'll have exposure to dips when they happen and don't have to try to time them. By investing a fixed amount regularly, you will end up buying more shares when the price is lower than when it is higher.




Why Do Some Investors Use Dollar-Cost Averaging?
The key advantage of dollar-cost averaging is that it reduces the negative effects of investor psychology and market timing on a portfolio. By committing to a dollar-cost averaging approach, investors avoid the risk that they will make counter-productive decisions out of greed or fear, such as buying more when prices are rising or panic-selling when prices decline. Instead, dollar-cost averaging forces investors to focus on contributing a set amount of money each period while ignoring the price of the target security.




How Often Should You Invest With Dollar-Cost Averaging?
With regard to actually using the strategy, how often you use it may depend on your investment horizon, outlook on the market, and experience with investing. If your outlook is for a market in flux that will eventually rise, then you might try it. If a persistent bear market's at work, then it wouldn't be a smart strategy to use. If you're planning to use it for long-term investing and wonder what interval for buying makes sense, consider applying some of every paycheck to the regular purchases.
What is the Dollar Duration  

The dollar duration measures the dollar change in a bond's value to a change in the market interest rate. The dollar duration is used by professional bond fund managers as a way of approximating the portfolio's interest rate risk.



Dollar duration is one of several different measurements of bond's duration, As duration measures quantify the sensitivity of a bond's price to interest rate changes, dollar duration seeks to report these changes as an actual dollar amount. 





Key Takeaways

Dollar duration is used by bond fund managers to measure a portfolio's interest rate risk in nominal, or dollar-amount terms.Dollar duration calculations can be used to calculate risk for many fixed income products such as forwards, par rates, zero-coupon bonds, etc.There are two main limitations to dollar durations: it may result in an approximation; and it assumes that bonds have fixed rates with fixed interval payments.


   Basics of Dollar Duration  

Dollar duration, sometimes called money duration or DV01, is based on a linear approximation of how a bond's value will change in response to changes in interest rates. The actual relationship between a bond's value and interest rates is not linear. Therefore, dollar duration is an imperfect measure of interest rate sensitivity, and it will only provide an accurate calculation for small changes in interest rates.



Mathematically, the dollar duration measures the change in the value of a bond portfolio for every 100 basis point change in interest rates. Dollar duration is often referred to formally as DV01 (i.e. dollar value per 01). Remember, 0.01 is equivalent to 1 percent, which is often denoted as 100 basis points (bps). To calculate the dollar duration of a bond you need to know its duration, the current interest rate, and the change in interest rates.



             Dollar Duration = DUR x (∆i/1+ i) x P



where:



DUR = the bond's straight duration∆i = change in interest ratesi = current interest rate; andP = bond price



While dollar duration refers to an individual bond price, the sum of the weighted bond dollar durations in a portfolio is the portfolio dollar duration. Dollar duration can be applied to other fixed income products as well that have prices that vary with interest rate moves.


   Dollar Duration vs. Other Duration Methods  

Dollar duration differs from Macaulay duration and modified duration in that modified duration is a price sensitivity measure of the yield change, meaning it is a good measure of volatility, and Macaulay duration uses the coupon rate and size plus the yield to maturity to assess the sensitivity of a bond. Dollar duration, on the other hand, provides a straightforward dollar-amount computation given a 1% change in rates.


   Limitations of Dollar Duration  

Dollar duration has its limitations. Firstly, because it is a negative sloping linear line and it assumes the yield curve moves in parallels the result is only an approximation. However, if you have a large bond portfolio, the approximation becomes less of a limitation.



Another limitation is that the dollar duration calculation assumes the bond has fixed rates with fixed interval payments. However, interest rates for bonds differ based on market conditions as well as the introduction of synthetic instruments.
What Is Dollarization?  

Dollarization is the term for when the U.S. dollar is used in addition to or instead of the domestic currency of another country. It is an example of currency substitution. Dollarization usually happens when a country’s own currency loses its usefulness as a medium of exchange, due to hyperinflation or instability.





Key Takeaways

Dollarization is when a country begins to recognize the U.S. dollar as a medium of exchange or legal tender alongside or in place of its domestic currency.Dollarization normally occurs when the local currency has become unstable and begun to lose its usefulness as a medium of exchange for market transactions.Dollarization can have both benefits and costs. It typically results in enhanced monetary and economic stability, but necessarily involves loss of economic autonomy in monetary policy.


   Understanding Dollarization  

Dollarization usually occurs in developing countries with a weak central monetary authority or an unstable economic environment. It can occur as an official monetary policy or as a de facto market process. Either through official decree or through adoption by market participants, the U.S. dollar comes to be recognized as a generally accepted medium of exchange for use in day-to-day transactions in a country’s economy. Sometimes the dollar assumes official status as legal tender in the country.



The main reason for dollarization is to receive the benefits of greater stability in the value of currency over a country's domestic currency. For example, the citizens of a country within an economy that is undergoing rampant inflation may choose to use the U.S. dollar to conduct day-to-day transactions, since inflation will cause their domestic currency to have reduced buying power.



Another aspect of dollarization is that the country gives up some of its ability to influence its own economy through monetary policy by adjusting its money supply. The dollarizing country effectively outsources their monetary policy to the U.S. Federal Reserve. This can be a negative factor, to the extent that U.S. period monetary policy is set in the interest of the U.S. economy and not the interests of dollarized countries.



However, it can be beneficial if it helps takes advantage of an economy of scale in monetary policy that allows the dollarizing country to economize on resources that would need to be devoted to supplying and managing its own money supply. It may also be the case that domestic authorities have proven themselves incompetent to manage their own monetary policy. Giving up an independent monetary policy can move the dollarizing country closer to an optimal currency area with the dollar. Small countries that engage in a relatively large volume of trade with and have strong economic ties to the U.S. will especially benefit.


   An Example of Dollarization  

Zimbabwe ran a dollarization test to see if the adoption of foreign currency could stave off high inflation and stabilize its economy. Zimbabwe dollar inflation reached estimated rate of 2.2 million percent in July 2008. The acting finance minister announced that the U.S. dollar would be accepted as legal tender for a select number of merchandisers and retailers. After the experiment, the finance minister announced that the country would adopt the U.S. dollar, by legalizing its general use in 2009 and later suspending use of the Zimbabwe dollar in 2015.



Dollarization in Zimbabwe immediately worked to reduce inflation. This reduced the instability of the country's overall economy, allowing it to increase its citizens' buying power and realize increased economic growth. Additionally, long-term economic planning became easier for the country, since the stable dollar attracted some foreign investment.



However, dollarization wasn't an entirely smooth ride for the country, and there were drawbacks. All monetary policy would be created and implemented by the United States, some thousands of miles away from Zimbabwe. Decisions made by the Federal Reserve do not take into account the best interests of Zimbabwe when creating and enacting policy, and the country had to hope that any decisions, such as open market operations, would be beneficial. Not only could Zimbabwe not make its goods and services cheaper in the world market by devaluing its currency but the affect dollarization had on banking regulations discouraged foreign investments from other countries.



In 2019, Zimbabwe reversed course by reintroducing a new Zimbabwe dollar known as the Real Time Gross Settlement dollar in February and outlawing the use of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies in June. Inflation in the new Zimbabwe dollars has been steep, and substantial use of the U.S. dollar as a black market currency persists. Despite the challenges, as of 2022, Zimbabwe has stated that they have no intention of returning to dollarization.
What Is a Domestic Corporation?  

A domestic corporation is a company that conducts its affairs in its home country. A domestic business is often taxed differently than a non-domestic business and may be required to pay duties or fees on the products it imports. Typically, a domestic corporation can easily conduct business in other states or parts of the country where it has filed its articles of incorporation.



Businesses that are located in a country different from the one where they originated are referred to as foreign corporations. Companies also may be referred to as foreign businesses when they are outside of the state in which they were formed. For example, a corporation that is incorporated in Delaware will be considered a domestic business there and a foreign business in all other states.





Key Takeaways

A domestic corporation conducts its affairs in its home country or state.Businesses that are located in a country different from the one where they originated are referred to as foreign corporations.Corporations also may be deemed foreign outside of the state where they were incorporated.


   Understanding Domestic Corporations  

Usually, a corporation is established after a business files its articles of incorporation with a state agency. From that point forward, all of the corporation’s conduct is subject to the law of the state in which it was formed, even if it is not doing business there. This also means that if the company was incorporated under Nevada law, it will be considered a domestic corporation in that state and a foreign one everywhere else.



Corporations are allowed to change which state laws govern them. To become a domestic business in another state, the corporation must first be dissolved in the place where it was originally formed. After that process is complete, the company may file the appropriate articles of incorporation in another state.



Domestic business owners are free to choose where to domesticate their corporations and, as a result, will seek to analyze corporate laws in different states to determine which state represents the most suitable home. Historically, Delaware has often been the preferred option.






Over two thirds of Fortune 500 companies are incorporated in the state of Delaware.



Delaware is perceived as a business-friendly state and is particularly known for its Court of Chancery. This unique court system is adroit in resolving complex corporate legal matters, including disputes among shareholders. Delaware also has business-friendly usury laws, giving banks and credit card companies more freedom to charge steep interest rates on loans.


   Special Considerations  

For a domestic business that is deciding where to be incorporated, weighing which states have lower corporate tax rates is not a big consideration. Under federal tax laws, corporations are subject to taxation rates in the place where they do business, not where they were formed.





Important

Corporations are subject to the tax rates in the state where they do business, not where they were formed.



Corporations doing business in another state generally must register as foreign businesses in that state, with any business conducted there being taxed by that state at their rates. A business located where corporate tax is high would not be able to lower its tax bill by choosing to incorporate in a state where taxation is lower.
What Is a Domestic Relations Order – DRO  

A domestic relations order (DRO) is a court order that gives a spouse or dependent the right to receive all or a portion of the benefits of an employee’s qualified retirement plan in the event of divorce. A DRO is usually sent to a plan administrator or employer for review, and if it meets certain laws, it will result in the plan benefits distributed between the parties involved. The parties involved are normally the employee and their spouse.


   Regulations for Public Employees  

The Retirement Equity Act (REA) of 1984 which falls under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) states that the retirement benefit plan of a public employee constitutes an asset for both the employee and their alternative payee. An alternate payee, according to the IRS, can be the spouse, ex-spouse, or dependent of the employee. In the event of marital dissolution, this asset must, therefore, be taken into account.



An approved DRO is known as a Qualified Domestic Relations Order (QDRO). Under federal laws, qualified plans like defined benefit plans, ESOPs, 401(k) plans, and profit-sharing plans require a QDRO in order to distribute benefits to an alternative payee. Once a DRO has been determined to be qualified, notification of approval is sent to the attorney who in turn submits their final revisions to the court for a judgment.



An official copy of the court’s judgment is passed on to the plan administrator to begin processing the retirement plan benefit. A QDRO is a mandatory order that must be followed to a tee and honored by the employee’s company or plan administrator. However, in the event that a DRO is erroneously judged as qualified, the QDRO can be taken to court to be corrected or changed.


   Plan Administrator Review  

An employer or plan administrator is normally in charge of reviewing a Domestic Relations Order (DRO). The employer’s company may have in-house HR employees who are well versed in pension laws or contract the services of external plan administrators who conduct DRO assessments. When an order is sent by an attorney to a plan administrator for review, the employer or administrator applies a checklist to ensure that the plan meets the requirements for it to be qualified and bound by the order.



An order may be unqualified if the benefit required from the order is not supported by the retirement plan or if the terms of the order do not comply with federal laws. In this case, the plan administrator notifies the attorney representing the beneficiary on the reasons why the order does not meet the plan’s requirements. The attorney who reviews the assessment may then amend the copy of the DRO and re-send it to the employer or administrator to re-assess.


   DRO Processing Times  

The time it takes to process a benefits plan depends on the type of retirement plan the employee has and the stipulations set out in the court’s judgment. Upon completion of the distributed payments, the plan is split in two and the alternative payee has one of the two accounts in their name.



If the account is a qualified defined benefit plan, the alternate payee may not receive any payout until the employee retires or reaches the normal retirement age as defined by the plan. However, some retirement plans make it possible for the alternative payee to be paid immediately. Under a qualified defined contribution plan, a check payable to the alternate payee may be made as soon as practicable.



While the federal law ERISA governs the distribution of private qualified retirement plans, this law does not apply to government benefits and plans. Government retirement benefits are therefore divided between the plan owner and the alternative employee using a DRO only. Retirement benefits provided by a state, the military, federal government, a county, or city are all government plans that are not qualified. ERISA’s laws, therefore, do not apply to these plans.
What Is a Domicile?  

Your domicile is the place where you maintain a permanent home. Your country of domicile means the country you permanently reside in.



Your intent to remain in this place indefinitely makes it your domicile and makes you the place's domiciliary. In essence, it is how you define your domicile. And your domiciliary status subjects you to specific laws. Thus, domicile is a legal construct used to determine where you vote, file lawsuits, pay taxes, claim benefits, and oblige governmental authority.





Key Takeaways

Domicile refers to the place you call home permanently.Your domicile is important for legal purposes such as paying taxes, voting, and claiming benefits.Residence and domicile have different legal definitions and are differentiated primarily by the length of time you plan to live in a specific location.If you and your spouse divorce, your legal domicile will play a role in informing the courts about child support and alimony payments.You may own more than one home, but you can only have one domicile.


   Understanding Domiciles  

At birth, your domicile of origin is the home you share with your parents or legal guardians. This location remains your domicile until you reach the age of majority and acquire a domicile of choice. This domicile of choice remains your domicile until you abandon it by relocating to a new domicile with the bona fide intent to make the new domicile your fixed and permanent home. 



No matter how many homes you own, only one is your domicile. It is the one you acquire intending to remain indefinitely and to which you relocate after you abandon your old domicile. It could be the home where you live, work, bank, vote, and register your car.






Residence and domicile are not the same and have distinct legal meanings.


   Residence vs. Domicile  

You may have heard residence and domicile used interchangeably to refer to your home. However, the two terms have distinct legal meanings. The distinguishing factor between the two words is the length of time you intend to live there.



A residence is a home you expect to live in for a temporary period, whereas a domicile is a home you plan to live in for an indefinite period. Any place you own property or live for a prescribed period can be your residence. But only the one site where you intend to make your permanent home and remain indefinitely can be your domicile. Thus, you can have many residences, but you can have only one domicile in one intended place.



Your domicile is also your residence, but your residence may or may not be your domicile.


   Special Considerations  

Some people live equally in two homes. For example, suppose that after many years of living in Maine and vacationing in Florida, a person then decides to live half the year in Maine and the other half the year in Florida. They file their taxes and make a will in Maine but vote and have registered their car in Florida.



This even split of their essential activities between Maine and Florida indicates that they did not intend to abandon Maine when they moved to Florida. Consequently, Maine is their residence and domicile and Florida is their residence but not their domicile.



You cannot change your domicile by merely filing a Declaration of Domicile in another country or state. Instead, your lifestyle must comport with a permanent change of domicile. Your intended domicile can be inferred from the place you live and spend time.


  Legal and tax consequences  

Legally, your domicile is the location you declare in legal documents, such as the address you use to vote, bank, register vehicles, and pay taxes. Ending a domicile association includes your efforts to close bank accounts, surrender your driver’s license, remove your name from voting rolls, and pay taxes as a non-resident.



Your domicile carries legal consequences. It defines which country, state, and courts have jurisdiction to probate wills, administer estates, adjudicate lawsuits, and assess state income and death taxes. After a divorce, the legal domicile can affect your ability to claim and monitor alimony and child support payments.



Your domicile affects the circumstances under which you pay state taxes. Residence in a country or state limits the reach of taxing authorities to tax income you earn within its borders.






Upper-income taxpayers will often domicile in a state that has the lowest tax liability for them.



The imposition of death taxes is by the domicile country or state. Depending on your stated domicile and that of your beneficiaries, estate tax implications may be dramatically different. The domicile can extend its reach to all of your income from any source worldwide. However, indications of residence, such as owning real property—or indications of domicile, such as failing to abandon your previous domicile properly—can subject you to taxes in more than one state.


   How to Establish a New Domicile  

When you move, it may be necessary to take steps to establish and prove your new domicile. You should make sure to change your driver's license to the state of your domicile and your car registration. Do you vote? Make sure to change your voter registration, too. In addition to forwarding your mail, alert your bank and other financial companies you use to your change of address. Mark your last state income tax (in your previous home state) as final and inform the IRS of your new address, either over the phone or online.



Inform the professionals in your life, from doctors to dentists, of your move and update your new address with all of your credit cards, passport, bank and brokerages, utilities, and cell phone providers. Set up bank accounts with your new local branch and if you have young children, sign them up for the local schools and sign up for your local library.




What Is the Legal Definition of Domicile?
The legal definition of domicile is the address you declare in legal documents to pay taxes, receive social security, vote, bank, and register vehicles and animals.




What Is the Difference Between a Residence and a Domicile?
A residence is a location where you may live part-time or full-time. A domicile is your legal address, and your domicile is located in the state where you pay taxes.




How Do I Know My Domicile?
You will know your domicile because it will be the state and location you consider your permanent home. It's the location where you probably maintain your social, economical, and family ties. Your domicile is also the place where you pay taxes, vote, and have a driver’s license.




What Are the Types of Domicile?
Domiciles can be any house or apartment, condominium, or co-op. It is the place where you plan to live indefinitely. You can have more than one residence, but your domicile is your "forever" home.




What Is My Tax Domicile?
Your tax domicile is your permanent home where you pay your state income tax.


   The Bottom Line  

You may live in many places or even own multiple homes but you can only have one domicile when you reach the age of majority. Previously, your domicile is the home you share with your parent or legal guardian. It is possible to relocate to a new domicile, but it takes time and effort to establish a legal intent to make your new domicile your permanent home. It is the location where you register your car, your pet, your vote, and pay your state taxes.



A legal term, domicile is defined by the state or country and its courts have jurisdiction to administer your estate, probate your will when you die, and assess your state income taxes. In addition, your legal domicile informs your child support and alimony in the case of a divorce.
What Are Donchian Channels?  

Donchian Channels are three lines generated by moving average calculations that comprise an indicator formed by upper and lower bands around a midrange or median band. The upper band marks the highest price of a security over N periods while the lower band marks the lowest price of a security over N periods. The area between the upper and lower bands represents the Donchian Channel.



Career futures trader Richard Donchian developed the indicator in the mid-20th century to help him identify trends. He would later be nicknamed "The Father of Trend Following."















TradingView.





Key Takeaways

Donchian Channels are a technical indicator seeks to identify bullish and bearish extremes that favor reversals as well as higher and lower breakouts, breakdowns, and emerging trends.The middle band simply computes the average between the highest high over N periods and the lowest low over N periods.These points identify the median or mean reversion price.


   The Formula for Donchian Channels Is:  
















UC = Highest High in Last 


N


 Periods
















Middle Channel


=


(


(


U


C


+


L


C


)


/


2


)
















LC = Lowest Low in Last 


N


 periods
















where:
















U


C


=


Upper channel





















N


=









 Number of minutes, hours, days,
















 weeks, months


























Period


=









Minutes, hours, days, weeks,
















months





















L


C


=


Lower channel







\begin{aligned}&\text{UC = Highest High in Last }N\text{ Periods}\\&\text{Middle Channel} = ((UC+LC)/2)\\&\text{LC = Lowest Low in Last }N\text{ periods}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&UC=\text{Upper channel}\\&\begin{aligned}N=&\text{ Number of minutes, hours, days,}\\&\text{ weeks, months}\end{aligned}\\&\begin{aligned}\text{Period}=&\text{Minutes, hours, days, weeks,}\\&\text{months}\end{aligned}\\&LC=\text{Lower channel}\end{aligned}


​UC = Highest High in Last N PeriodsMiddle Channel=((UC+LC)/2)LC = Lowest Low in Last N periodswhere:UC=Upper channelN=​ Number of minutes, hours, days, weeks, months​Period=​Minutes, hours, days, weeks,months​LC=Lower channel​


   How to Calculate Donchian Channels  
  Channel High  

Choose the time period (N minutes/hours/days/weeks/months).Compare the high print for each minute, hour, day, week, or month over that period.Choose the highest print.Plot the result.


  Channel Low  

Choose the time period (N minutes/hours/days/weeks/months).Compare the low print for each minute, hour, day, week, or month over that period.Choose the lowest print.Plot the result.


  Center Channel  

Choose the time period (N minutes/hours/days/weeks/months).Compare high and low prints for each minute, hour, day, week, or month over that period.Add the lowest low print to the highest high print and divide by 2.Plot the result.


   What Do Donchian Channels Tell You?  

Donchian Channels identify comparative relationships between the current price and trading ranges over predetermined periods. Three values build a visual map of price over time, similarly to Bollinger Bands, indicating the extent of bullishness and bearishness for the chosen period. The top line identifies the extent of bullish energy, highlighting the highest price achieved for the period through the bull-bear conflict.



The center line identifies the median or mean reversion price for the period, highlighting the middle ground achieved for the period through the bull-bear conflict. The bottom line identifies the extent of bearish energy, highlighting the lowest price achieved for the period through the bull-bear conflict.


   Example of How to Use Donchian Channels  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



In this example, the Donchian Channel is the shaded area bounded by the upper green line and the lower red line, both of which use 20 days as the band construction (N) periods. As price moves up to its highest point in the last 20 days or more, the price bars “push” the green line higher, and as price goes down to its lowest point in 20 days or more, the price bars “push” the red line lower.



When the price decreases for 20 days from a high, the green line will be horizontal and then start dropping. Conversely, when the price rises from a low for 20 days, the red line will be horizontal for 20 days and then start rising.


   The Difference Between Donchian Channels and Bollinger Bands  

Donchian Channels plot the highest high and lowest low over N periods while Bollinger Bands plot a simple moving average (SMA) for N periods plus/minus the standard deviation of price for N periods X 2. This results in a more balanced calculation that reduces the impact of big high or low prints.


   Limitations of Using Donchian Channels  

Markets move according to many cycles of activity. An arbitrary or commonly used N period value for Donchian Channels may not reflect current market conditions, generating false signals that can undermine trading and investment performance.
What Is a Dormant Account?  

A dormant account is a customer's account at a bank or other financial institution that has seen no activity, with the possible exception of interest deposits, for a long period of time. The owner may have forgotten about the account, moved out of town without leaving a forwarding address, or died.



A dormant account with a very small balance may simply evaporate, reaching a zero balance due to monthly bank fees that exceed any interest paid. If not, the balance is turned over to the state, which will return it to the rightful owner upon request.



Financial institutions are required to transfer the money held in dormant accounts to the state's treasury after the accounts have been dormant for a certain period of time. The amount of time varies by state.





Key Takeaways

A dormant account is an account that has had no financial activity for a long period of time, except for the posting of interest. After the dormancy period, which varies by state, dormant accounts become the unclaimed property of the state.Accounts that can become dormant include checking and savings accounts, brokerage accounts, 401(k) accounts, pension fund accounts, and other accounts for financial resources.


   How a Dormant Account Works  

Accounts that can be declared dormant include checking and savings accounts, brokerage accounts, 401(k) accounts, and pension fund accounts. The contents of safety deposit boxes also may be declared unclaimed property.



The inactive period before an account is declared dormant may be as short as two years.



An account becomes dormant if its owner does not initiate any activity for a specific period of time. An activity can include contacting a financial institution by phone or Internet, logging into the account, withdrawing or depositing money, or receiving a payment from a third party.



Interest or dividend payments that are posted automatically to checking, savings, or brokerage accounts are not considered to be activity.





What If the Bank Fails?

If your bank fails, your account or safety deposit box will normally be held by the bank that took over the assets or by the FDIC. If the account was deemed inactive, it may be held by the state in which the account was opened. The FDIC has online resources for those who have deposits in institutions that have failed.


  Banks Must Attempt Contact  

Financial institutions are required by state laws to make an attempt to contact the owners of dormant accounts using the most recent mail contact information on file.



If the attempt to find the owner is unsuccessful, the assets in dormant accounts become unclaimed property and must be transferred to the state's treasury department.



In California, for example, checking, savings, and brokerage accounts must see no activity for at least three years in order to become dormant. In the state of Delaware, there is a five-year dormancy period for the same types of accounts.



A statute of limitations usually does not apply to dormant accounts, meaning that funds can be claimed by the owner or beneficiary at any time in the future.


   The Escheatment Process for Dormant Accounts  

Escheatment is the legal process for transferring unclaimed property to the state. Account owners can reclaim assets that were deemed inactive and transferred to the state.



States have enacted escheatment statutes that govern the process of transferring unclaimed funds to the state and protect the unclaimed funds from reverting back to financial institutions.



Escheatment state laws require companies to transfer unclaimed property from dormant accounts to the general fund of a state for safekeeping. The state takes over record-keeping and the returning of lost or forgotten property to owners or their heirs if the owner has passed away.



Owners can recoup unclaimed property by filing an application with the state in which the account was opened at no cost or for a nominal handling fee. Because the state keeps custody of the unclaimed property in perpetuity, owners can claim their property at any time.



In some cases, property such as stock shares may have been sold by the state. In that case, the cash value of the shares is paid out to the claimant.


   Examples of State Processes for Reclaiming Property  

Every state has its own policies and processes for allowing people to reclaim assets from inactive accounts that have been turned over to the state.



California, for example, maintains a searchable database that allows potential claimants to search by Social Security number. The State of Florida has a search function that it calls the "Florida Treasure Hunt."



As that title implies, states are actually eager to return unclaimed property. After all, they have the recordkeeping responsibility but don't get to use the cash.




How Can I Claim My Money From a Dormant Account?
Your first step is to contact the bank or other financial institution where you had the account. You'll need proper identification and you should have some proof that it's your money, such as a bank statement.If the bank has deemed the account inactive but has not yet transferred the money to the state, the account should be simply reactivated.If the money is in the state's hands, you need to go to the state treasury department to get it back. The department should have a website devoted to claiming unclaimed property.




I Think I Have Unclaimed Money Out There. What Do I Do?
The National Association of Unclaimed Property Administrators (NAUPA) has a free search tool that can help you track down unclaimed property in all 50 states and some Canadian provinces.There are other commercial and governmental unclaimed property search services, online and off. However, note that NAUPA is a nonprofit association of state administrators who actually have custody of all that unclaimed money and want to return it to the rightful owners.




Can I Close a Dormant Account?
You can close a dormant account, and you should do so. Otherwise, the money will slowly get eaten away by fees, including dormant account fees.To do this, contact the financial institution and ask it to transfer the remaining balance in the account to another, current account.


   The Bottom Line  

It's surprisingly easy to lose track of a bank account when you move house, change jobs, or otherwise disrupt your ordinary routine.



Luckily, the money won't disappear or even be spent by someone else. Your bank has a process for handling these dormant accounts, and that process includes handing them over to the state treasury for safekeeping.



The money is yours in perpetuity. You just have to go through the process of locating and claiming it.
What Is a Dotcom?  

A dotcom, or dot-com, is a company that conducts business primarily through a website. A dotcom company embraces the Internet as the key component in its business.



Dotcoms get their name from the URL or domain name that customers enter to visit a website. The .com at the end of the URL stands for commercial. (URL is an acronym for uniform resource locator.)



A number of alternatives to .com are available, including .org, for nonprofits; .edu, for universities and other educational users, and .gov, for official government agencies.



More extensions are introduced from time to time, as the vast volume of .com sites makes it more difficult for a new company to identify an intelligible name. There is a status consciousness behind some choices: The extension .io, an abbreviation used by techies and gamers for "input/output," has become the "cool new domain name," according to Finextra Research. The extension .info may be adopted to imply that a source is credible.





Key Takeaways

A dotcom, or dot-com, is a company with a business model that is dependent on the operation of a website.Dotcoms get their name from the .com at the end of their website URLs.The term is now used primarily to describe a company that was created in the early days of the World Wide Web, the 1990s.


   Understanding Dotcoms  

The dotcom business model requires an Internet presence in order for the business to function; this is the primary component of its definition. Most or all of a dotcom company’s products or services are displayed, marketed, sold, and supported via the Internet.






The word dotcom once referred to any Internet-based company. Dotcom now most often refers to an Internet company created during the Internet bubble of the 1990s.


   The Dotcom Bubble  

The dotcoms took the world by storm in the late 1990s, with valuations rising faster than any other industry in recent memory. Any company with dotcom in its name could score a huge valuation on the stock market, even if it lacked any profits or physical assets and couldn't produce a coherent business plan.



Many early dotcoms spent lavishly on marketing and brand recognition and much less on any actual product or service being offered.



Ultimately, the dotcom bubble burst in 2001 when investors grew tired of waiting for profits. A mild recession followed in the United States and other developed nations.


   Examples of Companies From the Dotcom Crash  

A site dedicated to selling pet products called Pets.com became a symbol of the dotcom crash. The company spent more than $2 million on a Super Bowl commercial in January 2000. Late that year, the company reported losses of approximately $147 million for the first three quarters. While the stock price had peaked at $14 a share early in the year, prices fell to below $1 after the losses were made public. The business did not survive.



Pseudo.com was a site that focused on Internet broadcasting services, including live-streaming services. Poor business practices ultimately resulted in the failure of the dotcom, and the site never became profitable.



There were success stories too: Companies founded during the dotcom boom include Amazon.com, founded in 1994; ebay.com, founded in 1995, and IMDB.com, founded in 1990,
What Was the Dotcom Bubble?  

The dotcom bubble was a rapid rise in U.S. technology stock equity valuations fueled by investments in Internet-based companies during the bull market in the late 1990s. The value of equity markets grew exponentially during this period, with the technology-dominated Nasdaq index rising from under 1,000 to more than 5,000 between the years 1995 and 2000. Things started to change in 2000, and the bubble burst between 2001 and 2002 with equities entering a bear market.



The crash that followed saw the Nasdaq index, which rose five-fold between 1995 and 2000, tumble from a peak of 5,048.62 on March 10, 2000, to 1,139.90 on Oct. 4, 2002, a 76.81% fall. By the end of 2001, most dotcom stocks went bust. Even the share prices of blue-chip technology stocks like Cisco, Intel, and Oracle lost more than 80% of their value. It would take 15 years for the Nasdaq to regain its peak, which it did on April 24, 2015.





Key Takeaways

The dotcom bubble was a rapid rise in U.S. technology stock equity valuations fueled by investments in Internet-based companies in the late 1990s.The value of equity markets grew exponentially during the dotcom bubble, with the Nasdaq rising from under 1,000 to more than 5,000 between 1995 and 2000.Equities entered a bear market after the bubble burst in 2001.The Nasdaq, which rose five-fold between 1995 and 2000, saw an almost 77% drop, resulting in a loss of billions of dollars.The bubble also caused several Internet companies to go bust.


   Understanding the Dotcom Bubble  

The dotcom bubble, also known as the Internet bubble, grew out of a combination of the presence of speculative or fad-based investing, the abundance of venture capital funding for startups, and the failure of dotcoms to turn a profit. Investors poured money into Internet startups during the 1990s hoping they would one day become profitable. Many investors and venture capitalists abandoned a cautious approach for fear of not being able to cash in on the growing use of the Internet.



With capital markets throwing money at the sector, start-ups were in a race to quickly get big. Companies without any proprietary technology abandoned fiscal responsibility. They spent a fortune on marketing to establish brands that would set them apart from the competition. Some start-ups spent as much as 90% of their budget on advertising.






Speculative bubbles are notoriously hard to recognize while happening but seem obvious after they burst.



Record amounts of capital started flowing into the Nasdaq in 1997. By 1999, 39% of all venture capital investments were going to Internet companies. That year, most of the 457 initial public offerings (IPOs) were related to Internet companies, followed by 91 in the first quarter of 2000 alone. The high-water mark was the AOL Time Warner megamerger in Jan. 2000, which became the biggest merger failure in history.



The bubble ultimately burst, leaving many investors facing steep losses and several Internet companies going bust. Companies that famously survived the bubble include Amazon, eBay, and Priceline.






The dotcom bubble is but one of several asset bubbles that have appeared over the past centuries.


   How the Dotcom Bubble Burst  

The 1990s was a period of rapid technological advancement in many areas. But it was the commercialization of the Internet that led to the greatest expansion of capital growth the country ever saw. Although high-tech standard-bearers, such as Intel, Cisco, and Oracle, were driving organic growth in the technology sector, it was upstart dotcom companies that fueled the stock market surge that began in 1995.



The bubble that formed over the next five years was fed by cheap money, easy capital, market overconfidence, and pure speculation. Venture capitalists anxious to find the next big score freely invested in any company with a “.com” after its name. Valuations were based on earnings and profits that would not occur for several years if the business model actually worked, and investors were all too willing to overlook traditional fundamentals.



Companies that had yet to generate revenue, profits, and, in some cases, a finished product, went to market with IPOs that saw their stock prices triple and quadruple in one day, creating a feeding frenzy for investors.



The Nasdaq index peaked on March 10, 2000, at 5,048—nearly double over the prior year. Several of the leading high-tech companies, such as Dell and Cisco, placed huge sell orders on their stocks when the market peaked, sparking panic selling among investors. Within a few weeks, the stock market lost 10% of its value.



As investment capital began to dry up, so did the lifeblood of cash-strapped dotcom companies. Dotcom companies that reached market capitalizations in the hundreds of millions of dollars became worthless within a matter of months. By the end of 2001, a majority of publicly-traded dotcom companies folded, and trillions of dollars of investment capital evaporated.




How Long Did the Dotcom Bubble Last?
The dotcom bubble lasted about two years between 1998 and 2000. The time between 1995 and 1997 is considered to be the pre-bubble period when things started to heat up in the industry.




Why Did the Dotcom Bubble Burst?
The dotcom bubble burst when capital began to dry up. In the years preceding the bubble, record-low interest rates, the adoption of the Internet, and interest in technology companies allowed capital to flow freely, especially to startup companies that had no track record of success. Valuations rose and money eventually dried up. This led companies, many of which didn't even have a business plan or product, to collapse, causing the market to crash.




What Caused the Dotcom Crash?
The dotcom crash was triggered by the rise and fall of technology stocks. The growth of the Internet created a buzz among investors, who were quick to pour money into startup companies. These companies were able to raise enough money to go public without a business plan, product, or track record of profits. These companies quickly ran through their cash, which caused them to go under.




What Caused the 2000 Stock Market Crash?
The 2000 stock market crash was a direct result of the bursting of the dotcom bubble. It popped when a majority of the technology startups that raised money and went public folded when capital went dry.


   The Bottom Line  

When the Internet took off in the 1990s, many startups launched to make use of the new technology. These companies had high valuations with little-to-no profits, riding the wave and hype of the new tech. They were funded by a booming equity market in the 1990s that came with cheap capital. When the money dried up and these companies had no self-sustaining profits to continue operating, the crash finally came and most of these companies went bust.
What Is a Double Bottom?  

A double bottom pattern is a classic technical analysis charting formation that represents a major change in trend and a momentum reversal from a prior down move in market trading. It describes the drop of a security or index, a rebound, another drop to the same or similar level as the original drop, and finally another rebound (that may become a new uptrend). The double bottom looks like the letter "W." The twice-touched low is now considered a significant support level. While those two lows hold, the upside has new potential.



In terms of profit targets, a conservative reading of the pattern suggests the minimum-move price target is equal to the distance of the two lows and the intermediate high. More aggressive targets are double the distance between the two lows and the intermediate high.





Key Takeaways

A double bottom pattern is a classic technical analysis charting formation showing a major change in trend from a prior down move.The double bottom pattern looks like the letter "W." The twice-touched low is considered a support level.The double bottom pattern always follows a major or minor downtrend in a particular security, and signals the reversal and the beginning of a potential uptrend.Double bottom patterns occur relatively often and in many different timeframes. A daily double bottom may indicate a longer-term reversal or shift in trend, while an hourly double bottom may signal only a brief pause in a down trend.


   What Does a Double Bottom Tell You?  

In technical analysis of financial markets, a double bottom is significant in that it suggests an important low, or strong level of support, has been reached following a down move. While the double bottom low remains in place, price movement is likely to exhibit a retracement higher and possibly indicate the beginning of a new uptrend. By the same token, a drop below the double bottom lows in subsequent periods suggests the downtrend is resuming and the bears have reasserted their primacy.



As with many chart patterns, a double bottom pattern is best suited for analyzing the intermediate-to longer-term view of a market.






Generally speaking, the longer the duration between the two lows in the pattern, the greater the probability that the chart pattern will be accurate.



It is, for the reason above, better to use daily or weekly data price charts when analyzing markets for this particular pattern.



The double bottom pattern always follows a major or minor down trend in a particular security, and signals a reversal and the beginning of a potential uptrend. The pattern should be validated by a change in market fundamentals for the security itself (for example, better earnings), as well as the sector that the security belongs to, and the market in general. The fundamentals should reflect the characteristics of an upcoming reversal in market conditions. Also, volume should be closely monitored during the formation of the pattern. A spike in volume typically occurs during the two upward price movements in the pattern. These spikes in volume are a strong indication of upward price pressure and serve as further confirmation of a true double bottom pattern.



Once the closing price is in the second rebound and is approaching the high of the first rebound of the pattern (in other words, the middle of the "W"), a noticeable expansion in volume is coupled with fundamentals that indicate market conditions are conducive to a reversal. A long position should be taken on a daily close above the price level of the high of the first rebound, with a stop loss at the second low in the pattern. The minimum measured move objective for the pattern is the distance from the two lows to to the intermediate high in the middle of the pattern. A more aggressive interpretation of the pattern suggests a target at two times the distance between the lows and the intermediate high.


   Example of a Double Bottom  










TradingView



The daily trading chart above shows a double bottom in the case of an overall downtrend in Advanced Micro Devices (AMD). The first low is met by significant buying interest after a sudden, sharp decline, producing a long, light candlestick and a bullish engulfing line (if you're also using candlestick analysis, those are both bullish reversal patterns). The subsequent high is nearly 10% up from the first low, suggesting investors should keep a sharp eye out for another downside move at this point, as rebounds from the first low are typically on the order of 10% to 20%.



The second low of the pattern is within 3% to 4% of the prior low, contributing to the validity of the pattern. With the second bottom now in place, traders should reckon with a potential correction higher, or even a new uptrend, as a level of significant support has been reached and tested twice. The pattern is invalidated and downside potential resumes on a drop below the double bottom lows. On the other hand, a daily close above the intermediate high suggests a major reversal and perhaps the beginning of a new uptrend.



Double bottom formations are highly effective when identified correctly. However, they can be extremely detrimental when they are interpreted incorrectly. Therefore, one must be extremely careful and patient before jumping to conclusions. The clue to watch for is another bottom around the earlier low, followed by bullish confirmation in subsequent periods, for example, days or weeks. Such patterns are most readily visible on daily and weekly charts.




Must the Two Bottoms of the Lows in the Double Bottom Pattern Be the Same?
No, there is room to play with the relative levels of the lows, though they should be within 3% to 4% of each other. In fact, if you think about it, a higher second bottom suggests the selling pressure came to an earlier end, indicating the low of the first bottom is a potentially highly significant support level. That said, it is perhaps surprising how many times the double bottom lows are identical, adding great significance to the low price point as major support.




What is the Overall Interpretation of a Double Bottom?
A double bottom is suggestive of a change in direction higher and possibly the start of a new uptrend. To put it in buyers/sellers terms, the sellers have created a downtrend that came to a low point (support), which led to a rebound or short-covering. The rebound that follows is considered corrective within the overall downtrend, meaning the sellers are still in place, and they eventually make another try for the downside. However, the previous low/support level manages to hold again, meaning the fundamentals may have changed and the selling pressure may have been exhausted, leaving the sellers suddenly on the wrong side of the downward move.




Does the Double Bottom Suggest a Price Target?
Yes, the minimum price target for the formation is the distance from the previous low to the corrective high in the middle of the formation. So the target is roughly 10% higher from the initial low. Gains beyond that level, after the second bottom has been reached, would be an extremely bullish signal and may confirm a more significant bottom has been reached and the upside is now in play.


   The Bottom Line  

Double bottom formations are among the most significant chart patterns for identifying longer-term shifts in trends, signaling a major low has been reached for the foreseeable future. The pattern typically suggests a 10% to 20% rebound after the second low has been made, but there may be more upside if the fundamental landscape has changed in the securities' favor. For instance, positive future earnings outlook could create a new uptrend.



Double bottoms are best identified visually, using relatively long-term charts (daily and weekly). The lows do not have to be identical, but preferably between 3% to 4% of each other. The upside potential has as its minimum measured target level the highs of the first rebound (about 10%). A pullback and second test of the downside support completes the pattern if the low is within 3% to 4% of the prior low. Once the double bottom pattern is formed, traders should keep an eye out for upside moves. If the high in the middle of the pattern is breached after the second bottom has been formed, it suggests further upside potential and perhaps the start of a new uptrend.
What Is the Double-Declining Balance (DDB) Depreciation Method?  

The double-declining balance depreciation (DDB) method, also known as the reducing balance method, is one of two common methods a business uses to account for the expense of a long-lived asset. The double-declining balance depreciation method is an accelerated depreciation method that counts as an expense more rapidly (when compared to straight-line depreciation that uses the same amount of depreciation each year over an asset's useful life). Similarly, compared to the standard declining balance method, the double-declining method depreciates assets twice as quickly.





Key Takeaways

The double-declining balance (DDB) method is an accelerated depreciation calculation used in business accounting.Specifically, the DDB method depreciates assets twice as fast as the traditional declining balance method.The DDB method records larger depreciation expenses during the earlier years of an asset’s useful life, and smaller ones in later years.As a result, companies opt for the DDB method for assets that are likely to lose most of their value early on, or which will become obsolete more quickly.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Double-Declining Balance (DDB) Depreciation Formula  
















Depreciation


=


2


×


SLDP


×


BV
















where:
















SLDP = Straight-line depreciation percent
















BV = Book value at the beginning of the period







\begin{aligned} &\text{Depreciation}=2\times \text{SLDP}\times\text{BV}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{SLDP = Straight-line depreciation percent}\\ &\text{BV = Book value at the beginning of the period}\\ \end{aligned}


​Depreciation=2×SLDP×BVwhere:SLDP = Straight-line depreciation percentBV = Book value at the beginning of the period​


   Understanding DDB Depreciation  

The declining balance method is one of the two accelerated depreciation methods and it uses a depreciation rate that is some multiple of the straight-line method rate. The double-declining balance (DDB) method is a type of declining balance method that instead uses double the normal depreciation rate.



Depreciation rates used in the declining balance method could be 150%, 200% (double), or 250% of the straight-line rate. When the depreciation rate for the declining balance method is set as a multiple, doubling the straight-line rate, the declining balance method is effectively the double-declining balance method. Over the depreciation process, the double depreciation rate remains constant and is applied to the reducing book value each depreciation period. The book value, or depreciation base, of an asset, declines over time.



With the constant double depreciation rate and a successively lower depreciation base, charges calculated with this method continually drop. The balance of the book value is eventually reduced to the asset's salvage value after the last depreciation period. However, the final depreciation charge may have to be limited to a lesser amount to keep the salvage value as estimated.



Under the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for public companies, expenses are recorded in the same period as the revenue that is earned as a result of those expenses. Thus, when a company purchases an expensive asset that will be used for many years, it does not deduct the entire purchase price as a business expense in the year of purchase but instead deducts the price over several years.



Because the double-declining balance method results in larger depreciation expenses near the beginning of an asset’s life—and smaller depreciation expenses later on—it makes sense to use this method with assets that lose value quickly.





Accelerated Depreciation

Double declining balance depreciation allows for higher depreciation expenses in early years and lower expenses as an asset nears the end of its life. This is considered an accelerated depreciation method.


   Example of DDB Depreciation  

As a hypothetical example, suppose a business purchased a $30,000 delivery truck, which was expected to last for 10 years. After 10 years, it would be worth $3,000, its salvage value. Under the straight-line depreciation method, the company would deduct $2,700 per year for 10 years–that is, $30,000 minus $3,000, divided by 10.



Using the double-declining balance method, however, one would first calculate the straight-line depreciation (SLDP) as 1/10 years of useful life = 10% per year. They would then double the SLDP (10%x2=20%) and thus deduct 20% of $30,000 ($6,000) in year one, 20% of $24,000 ($4,800) in year two, and so on, stopping when the book value equaled the salvage value.




What Is Depreciation?
Depreciation is an accounting process by which a company allocates an asset's cost throughout its useful life. In other words, it records how the value of an asset declines over time. Firms depreciate assets on their financial statements and for tax purposes in order to better match an asset's productivity in use to its costs of operation over time.




Why Is Double Declining Depreciation an Accelerated Method?
Accelerated depreciation is any method of depreciation used for accounting or income tax purposes that allows greater depreciation expenses in the early years of the life of an asset. Accelerated depreciation methods, such as double declining balance (DDB), means there will be higher depreciation expenses in the first few years and lower expenses as the asset ages. This is unlike the straight-line depreciation method, which spreads the cost evenly over the life of an asset.




How Does DDB Differ From Declining Depreciation?
Both DDB and ordinary declining depreciation are accelerated methods. The difference is that DDB will use a depreciation rate that is twice that (double) the rate used in standard declining depreciation.




What Assets Are DDB Best Used For?
DDB is ideal for assets that very rapidly lose their values or quickly become obsolete. This may be true with certain computer equipment, mobile devices, and other high-tech items, which are generally useful earlier on but become less so as newer models are brought to market.
What Is Double Entry?  

Double entry is a bookkeeping and accounting method, which states that every financial transaction has equal and opposite effects in at least two different accounts. It is used to satisfy the accounting equation:















Assets


=


Liabilities


+


Equity







\begin{aligned} &\text{Assets} = \text{Liabilities} + \text{Equity} \\ \end{aligned}


​Assets=Liabilities+Equity​
With a double-entry system, credits are offset by debits in a general ledger or T-account.





Key Takeaways

Double entry refers to an accounting concept whereby assets = liabilities + owners' equity.In the double-entry system, transactions are recorded in terms of debits and credits.Double-entry bookkeeping was developed in the mercantile period of Europe to help rationalize commercial transactions and make trade more efficient.The emergence of double entry has been linked to the birth of capitalism.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Double Entry  

In accounting, a credit is an entry that increases a liability account or decreases an asset account. A debt is the opposite. It is an entry that increases an asset account or decreases a liability account. In the double-entry accounting system, transactions are recorded in terms of debits and credits. Since a debit in one account offsets a credit in another, the sum of all debits must equal the sum of all credits.



The double-entry system of bookkeeping standardizes the accounting process and improves the accuracy of prepared financial statements, allowing for improved detection of errors. All types of business accounts are recorded as either a debit or a credit.


   Types of Business Accounts  

Bookkeeping and accounting are ways of measuring, recording, and communicating a firm's financial information. A business transaction is an economic event that is recorded for accounting/bookkeeping purposes. In general terms, it is a business interaction between economic entities, such as customers and businesses or vendors and businesses.



Under the systematic process of accounting, these interactions are generally classified into accounts. There are seven different types of accounts that all business transactions can be classified:



AssetsLiabilitiesEquitiesRevenueExpensesGainsLosses



Bookkeeping and accounting track changes in each account as a company continues operations.


  Debits and Credits  

Debits and credits are essential to the double-entry system. In accounting, a debit refers to an entry on the left side of an account ledger, and credit refers to an entry on the right side of an account ledger. To be in balance, the total of debits and credits for a transaction must be equal. Debits do not always equate to increases and credits do not always equate to decreases.



A debit may increase one account while decreasing another. For example, a debit increases asset accounts but decreases liability and equity accounts, which supports the general accounting equation of Assets = Liabilities + Equity. On the income statement, debits increase the balances in expense and loss accounts, while credits decrease their balances. Debits decrease revenue account balances, while credits increase their balances.


   The Double-Entry Accounting System  

Double-entry bookkeeping was developed in the mercantile period of Europe to help rationalize commercial transactions and make trade more efficient. It also helped merchants and bankers understand their costs and profits. Some thinkers have argued that double-entry accounting was a key calculative technology responsible for the birth of capitalism.



The accounting equation forms the foundation of double-entry accounting and is a concise representation of a concept that expands into the complex, expanded, and multi-item display of the balance sheet. The balance sheet is based on the double-entry accounting system where the total assets of a company are equal to the total liabilities and shareholder equity.



Essentially, the representation equates all uses of capital (assets) to all sources of capital (where debt capital leads to liabilities and equity capital leads to shareholders' equity). For a company to keep accurate accounts, every single business transaction will be represented in at least two of the accounts.



For instance, if a business takes a loan from a financial entity like a bank, the borrowed money will raise the company's assets and the loan liability will also rise by an equivalent amount. If a business buys raw materials by paying cash, it will lead to an increase in the inventory (asset) while reducing cash capital (another asset). Because there are two or more accounts affected by every transaction carried out by a company, the accounting system is referred to as double-entry accounting.



This practice ensures that the accounting equation always remains balanced; that is, the left side value of the equation will always match the right side value.


   Example of Double Entry  

A bakery purchases a fleet of refrigerated delivery trucks on credit; the total credit purchase was $250,000. The new set of trucks will be used in business operations and will not be sold for at least 10 years—their estimated useful life.



To account for the credit purchase, entries must be made in their respective accounting ledgers. Because the business has accumulated more assets, a debit to the asset account for the cost of the purchase ($250,000) will be made. To account for the credit purchase, a credit entry of $250,000 will be made to notes payable. The debit entry increases the asset balance and the credit entry increases the notes payable liability balance by the same amount. 



Double entries can also occur within the same class. If the bakery's purchase was made with cash, a credit would be made to cash and a debit to asset, still resulting in a balance.




What Is the Difference Between Single-Entry Accounting and Double-Entry Accounting?
In single-entry accounting, when a business completes a transaction, it records that transaction in only one account. For example, if a business sells a good, the expenses of the good are recorded when it is purchased the good, and the revenue is recorded when the good is sold. With double-entry accounting, when the good is purchased, it records an increase in inventory and a decrease in assets. When the good is sold, it records a decrease in inventory and an increase in cash (assets). Double-entry accounting provides a holistic view of a company's transactions and a clearer financial picture.




What Is the Disadvantage of the Double-Entry Accounting System?
The primary disadvantage of the double-entry accounting system is that it is more complex. It requires two entries to be recorded when one transaction takes place. It also requires that mathematically, debits and credits always equal each other. This complexity can be time-consuming as well as more costly; however, in the long run, it is more beneficial to a company than single-entry accounting.




What Is an Example of Double Entry?
An example of double-entry accounting would be if a business took out a $10,000 loan and the loan was recorded in both the debit account and the credit account. The cash (asset) account would be debited by $10,000 and the debt (liability) account is credited by $10,000. Under the double-entry system, both the debit and credit accounts will equal each other.


   The Bottom Line  

The double-entry accounting method has many advantages over the single-entry accounting method. First and foremost is that it provides an organization with a complete understanding of its financial profile by noting how a transaction affects both credit and debit accounts. It also makes spotting errors easier, because if debits and credits do not match, then something is wrong. Lastly, it makes preparing financial statements easier.
What Is a Double Exponential Moving Average (DEMA)?  

The double exponential moving average (DEMA) is a technical indicator devised to reduce the lag in the results produced by a traditional moving average. Technical traders use it to lessen the amount of "noise" that can distort the movements on a price chart.



Like any moving average, the DEMA is used to indicate the trend in the price of a stock or other asset. By tracking its price over time, the trader can spot an uptrend—when the price moves above its average, or a downtrend—when the price moves below its average. When the price crosses the average, it may signal a sustained change in the trend.



As its name implies, the DEMA uses two exponential moving averages (EMAs) to eliminate lag in the charts.



This variation on the moving average was introduced by Patrick Mulloy in a 1994 article "Smoothing Data With Faster Moving Averages" in Technical Analysis of Stocks & Commodities magazine.





Key Takeaways

The double exponential moving average (DEMA) is a variation on a technical indicator used to identify a potential uptrend or downtrend in the price of a stock or other asset.A moving average tracks the average price of an asset over a period to spot the point at which it establishes a new trend, moving above or below its average price.Some traders see a flaw in the standard moving average: It has a lag time that increases with the length of the period being charted.The DEMA addresses this flaw, reducing lag time in the indicator.The DEMA, therefore, has a stronger filter for the "noise" of irrelevant market action that can distort charted results.


   The Formula for the Double Exponential Moving Average Is:  

﻿















D


E


M


A


=


2


×


E


M



A


N



 


−


 


E


M


A


 of 


E


M



A


N

















where:








\begin{aligned} &DEMA=2\times EMA_N\ -\ EMA\text{ of }EMA_N\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &N=\text{Look-back period} \end{aligned}


​DEMA=2×EMAN​ − EMA of EMAN​where:​﻿


   How to Calculate the Double Exponential Moving Average  

There are just four steps to this calculation:



Choose any lookback period, such as five periods, 15 periods, or 100 periods.
Calculate the EMA for that period. This is EMA(n).
Apply an EMA with the same lookback period to EMA(n). This produces a smoothed EMA.
Multiply two times the EMA(n) and subtract the smoothed EMA.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   What Does the Double Exponential Moving Average Tell You?  

Although the indicator is called a double exponential moving average, the equation does not rely on using a double exponential smoothing factor. Instead, the equation doubles the EMA but then cancels out the lag by subtracting a smoothed EMA.



Because of the complication of the equation, DEMA calculations require more data than straight exponential moving average (EMA) calculations. However, spreadsheets and technical charting software can easily calculate DEMAs.






The DEMA is used most often by day traders and swing traders. However, long-term investors may be better off using a standard moving average.


  Who Uses DEMAs and Why  

DEMAs react quicker than traditional moving averages, so their users are more likely to be day traders or swing traders. Long-term investors, who trade less frequently, may find that a traditional moving average works better for them.



DEMAs are used primarily to spot an upward or downward trend in price and analyze its strength. Traders watch for a price to move above or below the DEMA. Some use multiple DEMAs with different lookback periods, watching for the DEMAs to cross each other.



Like any moving average, a DEMA also can be used to indicate price support or resistance. That is, it can help identify the price point at which a trend will pause or even reverse.


  How to Read the DEMA  

Reading the DEMA is straightforward. When the price of an asset is above the DEMA, and the DEMA is rising, it helps confirm an uptrend in price. When the price is below the DEMA, and the DEMA is falling, that helps confirm a downtrend.



As noted above, some traders display two or more DEMAs with different look-back periods on a single chart. Trade signals could be generated when these lines cross.



For example, a trader may buy if a 20-period DEMA crosses above a 50-period DEMA, or sell when the 20-period crosses back below the 50-period.



The DEMA may be less reliable when used to indicate potential support and resistance price points. A trader viewing a DEMA, or any moving average, to pinpoint potential support or resistance points should make sure that it has served this function in the past. If not, it likely won't in the future.


   Double Exponential Moving Average (DEMA) and the Triple Exponential Moving Average (TEMA)  

As the names imply, the double EMA includes the EMA of an EMA. The triple EMA (TEMA) has an even more complex calculation, involving an EMA of an EMA of an EMA.



The goal is still to reduce lag, and the triple EMA has even less lag than the double EMA.






A DEMA, or any moving average, will likely be more reliable if a longer period of time is selected for tracking. This is because time diminishes the effects of "noise" in the markets.


   Limitations of the Double Exponential Moving Average  

Moving averages can provide little or no insight during times when the price of an asset is choppy or range-bound. No reliable trend can be identified at such times. The price will frequently cross back and forth across the DEMA.



In addition, the strength of the DEMA is its ability to reduce lag, but that can be its weakness in some circumstances.



The reduced lag gets the trader out quicker, reducing losses. Yet reduced lag can also encourage overtrading by providing too many signals. The indicator may tell a trader to sell when the price makes a minor move, thus missing out on a greater opportunity if the trend continues.



The DEMA is best used in conjunction with other forms of analysis, such as price action analysis and fundamental analysis.




What Is the Difference Between a Simple Moving Average and DEMA?
The double exponential moving average may be best described as a "smoothed" simple moving average. A standard moving average displays a lag time that increases with the amount of time being charted. The double exponential moving average seeks to shorten that lag time to a consistent level. Overall, it gives the trader an earlier warning of a change in the direction of an asset's price.




What Is the Most Accurate Moving Average?
The accuracy of a moving average depends greatly on the length of the period being tracked. The most commonly used moving average periods are 50-day, 100-day, and 200-day moving averages. Historically speaking, the longer the term, the more accurate the indicator. This is because the impact of market day-to-day "noise" diminishes over time—and it takes time for a trend to clarify.




How Do You Use a Double Exponential Moving Average?
Like any moving average, the double exponential moving average is designed to trigger a buy or sell signal based on the price movements over time of a given asset. The signal is triggered by a sustained change upwards or downwards of the asset's price.




What Is MACD DEMA?
The moving average convergence/divergence (MACD) is an indicator that seeks to add greater insight to the moving average by determining the relative momentum of the price movement. The MACD is calculated by subtracting the 26-period EMA from the 12-period EMA. The result may help a trader determine whether a price trend appears to be gaining or losing strength. Some traders use MACD in combination with the DEMA rather than with a standard moving average.
What Is the Double Irish With a Dutch Sandwich?  

The double Irish with a Dutch sandwich is a tax avoidance technique employed by certain large corporations, involving the use of a combination of Irish and Dutch subsidiary companies to shift profits to low or no-tax jurisdictions. The technique has made it possible for certain corporations to reduce their overall corporate tax rates dramatically.





Key Takeaways

The double Irish with a Dutch sandwich is a tax avoidance technique employed by certain large corporations.The scheme involves sending profits first through one Irish company, then to a Dutch company and finally to a second Irish company headquartered in a tax haven.The legislation passed in Ireland in 2015 ends the use of the tax scheme for new tax plans. Companies with established structures were able to benefit from the old system until 2020.


   Understanding Double Irish With a Dutch Sandwich  

The double Irish with a Dutch sandwich is just one of a class of similar international tax avoidance schemes. Each involves arranging transactions between subsidiary companies to take advantage of the idiosyncrasies of various national tax codes.



These techniques are most prominently used by tech companies because these firms can easily shift large portions of profits to other countries by assigning intellectual property rights to subsidiaries abroad.



The double Irish with a Dutch sandwich is generally considered to be an aggressive tax planning strategy used by some of the world's largest corporations. In 2014, it came under heavy scrutiny, especially from the U.S. and the European Union, when it was discovered that this technique facilitated the transfer of several billion dollars annually tax-free to tax havens.


   Special Considerations  

Due largely to international pressure and the publicity surrounding the use of double Irish with a Dutch sandwich, the Irish finance minister passed measures to close the loopholes in the 2015 budget. The legislation effectively ends the use of the tax scheme for new tax plans. Companies with established structures were able to benefit from the old system until 2020.


   Requirements for Double Irish With a Dutch Sandwich  

The first Irish company would receive large royalties from sales sold to U.S. consumers. The U.S. profits and therefore taxes are dramatically lowered and the Irish taxes on the royalties are very low. Due to a loophole in Irish laws, the company can then transfer its profits tax-free to the offshore company, where they can remain untaxed for years.



The second Irish company is used for sales to European customers. It is also taxed at a low rate and can send its profits to the first Irish company using a Dutch company as an intermediary. If done right, there is no tax paid anywhere. The first Irish company now has all the money and can again send it onward to the company in the tax haven.


   Example of the Double Irish With a Dutch Sandwich  

In 2017, Google reportedly transferred 19.9 billion euros or roughly $22 billion through a Dutch company, which was then forwarded to an Irish company in Bermuda. Companies pay no taxes in Bermuda. In short, Google's subsidiary in the Netherlands was used to transfer revenue to the Irish subsidiary in Bermuda.
What Is Double-Spending?  

Double-spending is the risk that a cryptocurrency can be used twice or more. Transaction information within a blockchain can be altered if specific conditions are met. The conditions allow modified blocks to enter the blockchain; if this happens, the person that initiated the alteration can reclaim spent coins.





Key Takeaways

Double-spending occurs when someone alters a blockchain network and inserts a special one that allows them to reacquire a cryptocurrency.Double-spending can happen, but it is more likely that a cryptocurrency is stolen from a wallet that wasn't adequately protected and secured.Many variations of attacks could be used for double-spending—51% is one of the most commonly cited attacks, while the unconfirmed transaction attack is most commonly seen.


   Understanding Double Spending  

To understand double-spending, it helps to review how the blockchain works first. When a block is created, it receives a hash—or encrypted number—that includes a timestamp, information from the previous block, and transaction data. This information is encrypted using a security protocol like the SHA-256 algorithm used by Bitcoin.



Once that block's information is verified by miners (in proof-of-work consensus), it is closed, and a new one is created with the timestamp, transaction information, and previous block's hash. A Bitcoin is awarded to the miner whose machine verified the hash.



For someone to double spend, a secret block has to be mined that outpaces the creation of the real blockchain. They would then need to introduce that chain to the network before it caught up—if this happened, then the network would recognize it as the latest set of blocks and add it to the chain. The person that did this could then give themselves back any cryptocurrency they had spent and use it again.


   Preventing Double Spending  

Double spending remains a risk; however, it is minimized by the blockchain. The likelihood of a secret block being inserted into the blockchain is very slim because it has to be accepted and verified by the network of miners.



The only chance a miner with illicit intentions has of inserting an altered block is to attempt to get another user to accept a transaction using their secret block and cryptocurrency. Even then, the likelihood that the modified block will be accepted is very slim. The blockchain and consensus mechanism move so quickly that the modified block would be outdated before it was accepted. Even if it was accepted, the network would still have passed up the information in the block and would reject it.






There isn't actually any recorded instance of double-spending. The cryptocurrency community believes that all double-spending has been thwarted. However, the attacks used for double-spending are more often used for other purposes.



Cryptocurrency transactions take some time to verify because the process involves randomly selecting numbers to solve the complex hash—this also takes up a great deal of computational power. It is, therefore, exceedingly difficult to duplicate or falsify the blockchain because of the immense amount of computing power needed to stay ahead of all of the other miners on the network.


   Double Spending Attacks  

The most significant risk for blockchains comes in the form of a 51% attack, which can occur if a miner controls more than 50% of the computing power that validates the transactions, creates blocks, and awards cryptocurrency.



If this user—or users—controls a majority of the hashing in the blockchain, they will be able to dictate transaction consensus and control the award of currency. In more popular cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, this is very unlikely due to the number of miners and hashing difficulty it has reached; however, new or forked cryptocurrencies with smaller networks are susceptible to this attack.



Most commonly, the unconfirmed transaction attack is used to fool cryptocurrency users. If you see one of these transactions, you shouldn't accept it because it can cause an attempted double-spend attack.




Did Double-Spending Happen?
There have been occasions where double-spending attempts have been reported and stopped. The attacks where it could happen generally lead to theft rather than double-spending.




Can You Copy a Bitcoin?
You cannot copy a Bitcoin because the blockchain and consensus mechanism would not accept it.




What Are Examples of Double Spending Attacks?
Several variations of attacks could allow miners with bad intentions to double spend. Included are the Finney attack, race attack, 51% attack, and unconfirmed transaction attacks.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein.
What Is Double Taxation?  

Double taxation is a tax principle referring to income taxes paid twice on the same source of income. It can occur when income is taxed at both the corporate level and personal level. Double taxation also occurs in international trade or investment when the same income is taxed in two different countries. It can happen with 401k loans.












Investopedia / Julie Bang





Key Takeaways

Double taxation refers to income tax being paid twice on the same source of income.Double taxation occurs when income is taxed at both the corporate level and personal level, as in the case of stock dividends.Double taxation also refers to the same income being taxed by two different countries.While critics argue that dividend double taxation is unfair, advocates say that without it, wealthy stockholders could virtually avoid paying any income tax.


   How Double Taxation Works  

Double taxation often occurs because corporations are considered separate legal entities from their shareholders. As such, corporations pay taxes on their annual earnings, just like individuals. When corporations pay out dividends to shareholders, those dividend payments incur income-tax liabilities for the shareholders who receive them, even though the earnings that provided the cash to pay the dividends were already taxed at the corporate level.



Double taxation is often an unintended consequence of tax legislation. It is generally seen as a negative element of a tax system, and tax authorities attempt to avoid it whenever possible.



Most tax systems attempt, through the use of varying tax rates and tax credits, to have an integrated system where income earned by a corporation and paid out as dividends and income earned directly by an individual is, in the end, taxed at the same rate. For example, in the U.S. dividends meeting certain criteria can be classified as "qualified" and as such, subject to advantaged tax treatment: a tax rate of 0%, 15% or 20%, depending on the individual's tax bracket. The corporate tax rate is 21%, as of 2022.


   Debate Over Double Taxation  

The concept of double taxation on dividends has prompted significant debate. While some argue that taxing shareholders on their dividends is unfair, because these funds were already taxed at the corporate level, others contend this tax structure is just.



Proponents of double taxation point out that without taxes on dividends, wealthy individuals could enjoy a good living off the dividends they receive from owning large amounts of common stock, yet pay essentially zero taxes on their personal income. Stock ownership could become a tax shelter, in other words. Supporters of dividend taxation also point out that dividend payments are voluntary actions by companies and, as such, companies are not required to have their income "double taxed" unless they choose to pay dividends to shareholders.






Certain investments with a flow-through or pass-through structure, such as master limited partnerships, are popular because they avoid the double taxation syndrome.


   International Double Taxation  

International businesses are often faced with issues of double taxation. Income may be taxed in the country where it is earned, and then taxed again when it is repatriated in the business' home country. In some cases, the total tax rate is so high, it makes international business too expensive to pursue.



To avoid these issues, countries around the world have signed hundreds of treaties for the avoidance of double taxation, often based on models provided by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (IECD). In these treaties, signatory nations agree to limit their taxation of international business in an effort to augment trade between the two countries and avoid double taxation.
What Is a Double Top?  

A double top is an extremely bearish technical reversal pattern that forms after an asset reaches a high price two consecutive times with a moderate decline between the two highs. It is confirmed once the asset's price falls below a support level equal to the low between the two prior highs.





Key Takeaways

A double top is a bearish technical reversal pattern.It is not as easy to spot as one would think because there needs to be a confirmation with a break below support.While a double top is a bearish signal, a double bottom is a bullish signal.Top tops usually have an upswing, initial peak, trough, second peak, and neckline.Investors can short trade after the break or place small trades, as double tops may have limited profit potential.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   What Does a Double Top Tell You?  

A double top signals a medium or long-term trend change in an asset class. Let's take a look at several historical examples of double tops.



The chart above is of Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) and shows a double top pattern that formed in the stock between September and October 2018 around a price of $2,050. The important support level in this case formed around $1,880. Despite the stock falling nearly 8% from October peak to support at $1,880, one could not confirm the double top until after the stock fell below $1,880. From that point forward the shares went on to plunge almost 31% further.



In the next example using Netflix Inc. (NFLX), we can see what appears to be the formation of a double top. However, in this case, we see that support is never broken or even tested as the stock continues to rise along an uptrend. However, later in the chart one can see that the stock again forms what appears to be a double top in June and July. But this time it does prove to be a reversal pattern, with the price falling below support at $380, resulting in a decline of 39% to $231 in December. Also, notice how the support level at $380 acted as resistance on two occasions in November when the stock was rising.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Double Top vs. Double Bottom  

Following an uptrend, a double top is a bearish reversal pattern that develops. It comprises of two almost equal-sized peaks that are close to one another in height, separated by a trough. A potential trend reversal is indicated by the pattern, which shows that the price has reached a resistance level twice but been unable to break past it. This pattern is frequently seen by traders as a signal to sell or enter short positions in anticipation of additional market declines.



Nearly the opposite situation is a double bottom. Following a downtrend, a double bottom is a bullish reversal pattern. It consists of a peak in the middle of two almost equal-depth troughs that follow one another. The pattern indicates that the price found resistance at a particular level and was unable to break below it.



In many ways, a double top looks very similar to a double bottom with the exception of the peaks. A double top results in consecutive "highs", while a double bottom results in consecutive "bottoms".






Be mindful that double tops may send false signals. Even the most clear pattern may break opposite of how it normally does.


   How to Identify a Double Top  

There's several key steps in identifying a double top. Be mindful that every instance of a double top may be slightly different, and false signals may lead investors to believe a double top is forming when in reality it isn't. Generally speaking, here are the steps to identify a double top.



Look for an Upswing: The price movement should be clearly in an uptrend prior to the creation of a double top. This indicates that the price has been making continuously higher highs and higher lows.
Find the Initial Peak: Determine the uptrend's first peak. The price has now risen to its maximum level before beginning to fall.
Find the Trough: Following the initial peak, the price will briefly fall. Find the valley or trough that develops following the initial peak.
Find the Second Peak: The price will then rise once more in an effort to hit a new high. But this second rally will fall short of the first peak's height and begin to collapse once more.
Verify the Pattern: To verify a double top pattern, make sure the decline that follows the second peak is lower than the trough that follows the first peak. This demonstrates that the previous resistance level was not successfully overcome by the price.
Draw the Neckline. This is done by connecting the low points of the two troughs with a horizontal line. The neckline, which denotes a level of support, is this line. It serves as an essential pattern reference.
Verify Double Top Pattern: To verify the double top pattern, watch for a price break below the neckline. Breaking below the neckline might be interpreted as a sell signal because it portends a potential trend reversal.


   Key Elements of a Double Top  

As you identify double top formations, consider the following key elements:



Uptrend: The price should clearly be moving upward before the pattern forms, as seen by higher highs and higher lows.
Two Peaks: The pattern consists of two peaks that roughly correspond to one another in terms of price. These peaks serve as resistance levels where the price stalls and begins to fall.
Trough or Valley: A trough or valley has formed between the two peaks. This denotes a brief period of price decline or consolidation.
Neckline: The neckline is a horizontal line that is created by joining the valley or trough low points. It serves as a degree of support and is essential for confirming the pattern.
Break of Neckline: The break of the neckline is a key component of the double top pattern. When the price drops below the neckline, suggesting a potential trend reversal, the pattern is verified.
Volume: Volume can add to our understanding of the pattern. Volume often increases when the price breaks below the neckline and decreases throughout the creation of the two peaks. The validity of the pattern may be strengthened by this rise in volume on the breakdown.
Price Goal: After the breakdown, project this distance downward from the neckline. This can offer a rough point of reference for the price decline.






The time period between peaks may vary. One double top may have a week between peaks, while another double top may play out over months.


   How to Trade a Double Top  

There are three primary ways to trade a double top. First, you can wait for the price to cross below the neckline, which would confirm the double top pattern and perhaps signal a trend reversal. You can start a short trade or sell position after the break happens. To reduce risk, think about placing a stop-loss order above the most recent swing high. You can also project the vertical distance between the neckline and the highest peak downward from the neckline to determine your profit target.



Second, after the neckline is first broken, the price may occasionally retest it from below before continuing its downward movement. As part of this technique, you watch for a price break below the neckline, wait for a retreat to the neckline, and then search for a bearish confirmation signal (such as a bearish candlestick pattern, a trendline break, or a lower high) to place a short trade. A profit target can be established using a variety of techniques, including projecting the pattern's height downward or locating probable support levels. The stop-loss can be set above the most recent swing high.



Third, you can use extra technical indicators or oscillators to make the double top pattern more reliable. For instance, you can check for bearish divergence on the moving average convergence divergence (MACD) histogram or the relative strength index (RSI), when the indicators display lower highs as the price develops the two peaks. Following the stop-loss and profit target criteria described above, you can place a short trade once the neckline is broken when the indicators confirm the bearish signal.






   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Double Top  
  Pros of a Double Top  

A double top pattern offers a visual cue of a possible change in trend from an uptrend to a downtrend. For traders hoping to profit from a shift in the market's trajectory and seize fresh profit possibilities, this can be favorable. Plus, there's usually often a definite resistance level that is formed when two peaks at roughly the same price level appear consecutively. This level can be used by traders as a benchmark for establishing stop-loss orders and profit objectives, improving risk management and trade planning.



A good entry point for traders to start short positions is the break of the neckline in a double top formation. If the price does not break below the neckline, this provides a fixed level at which to enter the market and aids in determining the pattern's invalidation. The height of the pattern can also be used to predict profit targets, giving traders a distinct moment at which to exit.



Volume analysis can offer more assurance to the correctness of the pattern. Volume frequently rises when the price breaks below the neckline and decreases throughout the creation of the two peaks. The signaling potency of the pattern may be further enhanced by this volume increase. Therefore, in some ways, a double top can be a more predictable, reliable pattern compared to other strategies.



Last, by spotting a double top pattern, traders can determine their profit goals and determine the probable downside target depending on the pattern's height. Due to the fact that the potential profit goal is often higher than the original risk (stop-loss), this usually enables a good risk-reward ratio.


  Cons of a Double Top  

The double top pattern is not infallible and occasionally generates false signals, just like any other chart pattern. A failed double top pattern could develop if the price briefly forms two peaks before continuing its upward trajectory. The breach of the neckline and other supportive signs should serve as confirmation, therefore traders should proceed with caution.



There may be some subjectivity involved in recognizing a double top pattern. The positions of the peaks and troughs, as well as how symmetrical the pattern ought to be, may be interpreted differently by traders. This subjectivity may cause discrepancies and a range of outcomes among traders.



It's possible that not all double top patterns have exact symmetry or the same peaks and troughs. The pricing ranges, length of time, and shape of the design are all flexible. It can be difficult to exactly specify the entry and departure locations or establish the pattern's target levels because of this variability.



A double top pattern's downside goal is normally calculated by extrapolating the pattern's height from the neckline. However, relative to the starting risk or stop-loss level, the possible profit target can be constrained. Depending on the state of the market, the price can not always reach the predicted target, producing lower earnings than expected.





Pros

Allows traders to use visual patterns to trade
May indicate clear resistance levels
May communicate clear entry and exit points
May be confirmed by the amount of shares traded



Cons

May indicate false signals like any other chart pattern
May rely on subjectivity in identifying patterns
May result in slightly different variations across investments
May result in limited profit potential







Is a Double Top Pattern Bullish?
No, the double top pattern is not regarded as bullish. The pattern on the chart is bearish and points to a possible trend change from an uptrend to a downtrend.




What Does a Double Top Pattern Mean?
Technical chart patterns called double tops often point to the possibility of a downtrend reversal from an uptrend. It develops when the price of an asset twice reaches a resistance level, fails to break through it, and then starts to fall.




Is Trading a Double Top Pattern Profitable?
Trading a double top pattern has the potential to be profitable if done so with the right evaluation, handling of risks, and market circumstances. Profitability is not assured, and there are a number of variables that may affect the result.




What Is the Successful Rate of a Double Top Pattern?
Any chart pattern's success rate, including double top patterns, depends on a number of variables, so it is impossible to say with certainty. Market conditions, timescale, the degree of pattern formation, and the presence of confirming signs or signals all affect the success rate.It's crucial to remember that chart patterns, like the double top pattern, don't always accurately forecast future price alterations. They can produce false signals or unsuccessful patterns, but they are useful for spotting possible trends and reversals.


   The Bottom Line  

The double top pattern is interpreted by traders and analysts as a bearish indicator. It implies that the upward trend has slowed down and that a price decrease is more likely. The break of the neckline, a horizontal line formed between the lows of the troughs, is frequently used by traders to confirm the pattern. It is considered a signal to start short positions or sell when the price crosses below the neckline, with the expectation that the price will continue to decrease.
What Is a Dove?  

A dove is an economic policy advisor who promotes monetary policies that usually involve low interest rates. Doves tend to support low interest rates and an expansionary monetary policy because they value indicators like low unemployment over keeping inflation low. If an economist suggests that inflation has few negative effects or calls for quantitative easing, then they are called a dove or labeled as dovish.





Key Takeaways

Doves are perceived as being more interested in spurring job growth through low interest rates than they are in controlling inflation.Critics argue that a dovish monetary policy left unchecked could overheat an economy and result in runaway inflation.The opposite of a dove is a hawk, which is a policy advisor that favors a tight monetary policy to control inflation.Often, the best scenario for a healthy economy is when the people setting monetary policy are capable of switching between a hawkish and dovish stance when the situation calls for it.







Dove


   Understanding Dove  

Doves prefer low interest rates as a means of encouraging economic growth because they tend to increase demand for consumer borrowing and spur consumer spending. As a result, doves believe the negative effects of low interest rates are relatively negligible; however, if interest rates are kept low for an indefinite period of time, inflation rises.



Derived from the placid nature of the bird of the same name, the term is the opposite of "hawk." A hawk is, conversely, someone who believes that higher interest rates will curb inflation. 



This isn't the only instance in economics where animals are used as descriptors. Bull and bear are also used, where the former refers to a market affected by rising prices, while the latter is typically one when prices are falling.


   Examples of Doves  

In the United States, doves tend to be the members of the Federal Reserve who are responsible for setting interest rates, but the term also applies to journalists or politicians who lobby for low rates as well. Previous Fed chairs Ben Bernanke and Janet Yellen were both considered doves for their commitment to low interest rates.



But people don't necessarily have to be one or the other. In fact, Alan Greenspan, who served as chair of the Federal Reserve between 1987 and 2006, was said to be fairly hawkish. But that stance changed over time and he eventually became more dovish, as he navigated the bursting of the Internet bubble of the 1990s, as well as the impact of the attack of Sept. 11, 2001, and other major, world-changing events.



Realistically, the people of the United States—investors and non-investors alike—want a Fed chair who can switch between hawk and dove depending on what the situation calls for.


   Doves, Consumer Spending, and Inflation  

When consumers are in a low interest rate environment created through a dovish monetary policy, they become more likely to take out mortgages, car loans, and credit cards. This spurs spending by encouraging people and companies to purchase in the present while rates are low rather than deferring the purchase for the future when rates might be higher.



This flurry of spending affects the entire economy. Increased consumption can help create or support jobs, which is often one of the main concerns of the political system from both a taxation and a happy voter perspective.



Eventually, however, the aggregate demand leads to increases in price levels. Some of this increase is because employment levels will rise. When this happens, workers tend to earn relatively higher wages as the supply of available workers goes down in a hot economy. So the higher wages get baked into product pricing.



Adding to this are macroeconomic factors created by an expanding money and credit supply where the value of the dollar is going down because they are plentiful. This makes the input costs for products dependent on supply chains in another currency more expensive in dollars. Add this all up, and you end up with inflation. Left unchecked, inflation can be as destructive as high unemployment in a stagnant economy.




What Is the Hawk and Dove Theory in Economics?
The hawk and dove theory in economics seeks to place economic policymakers into one of two buckets: doves and hawks. Doves seek an expansionary monetary policy, keeping interest rates low and pursuing a policy of quantitative easing. Hawks, on the other hand, seek a contractionary monetary policy, keeping interest rates high and avoiding quantitative easing.




What Do Hawks and Doves Mean in Politics?
Hawks and doves is a way to categorize how government officials view foreign policy. Those who seek an aggressive policy based on strong military power and other means are known as hawks, whereas doves seek a less aggressive foreign policy with reduced military power.




What Are the 2 Types of Monetary Policy?
Monetary policy includes the policies set by a nation's central bank. The policies are generally categorized as expansionary monetary policy or contractionary monetary policy. The former is needed to spur and grow the economy when it is slow or in a recession. This involves low interest rates. A contractionary monetary policy is one where the economy needs to slow down or curb high inflation. This involves high interest rates.


   The Bottom Line  

The term "dove," when applied to monetary economic policy, refers to an individual that pursues an expansionary monetary policy, which includes low interest rates in order to make the cost of borrowing money cheaper, thereby spurring consumer demand. A hawk, on the other hand, pursues a policy of contraction, keeping interest rates high.



Though categorizing policymakers as doves and hawks is easy for comparisons, in reality, economic situations require a fluid movement of interest rates to help the economy. When there is high inflation or when the economy is overheated, interest rates need to be high, when the economy is sluggish or in a recession, interest rates need to be kept low.
What Is the Dow 30?  

The Dow 30 is a widely-watched stock market index comprised of 30 large U.S. publicly traded companies. Also known as the "Dow" or the "Dow Jones Industrial Average," it tracks the combined share price performance of what its committee considers to be the most important names on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and NASDAQ, excluding transportation and utility companies. That makes it, in many people's eyes, a barometer of the U.S. stock market and economy.



The Dow 30 is operated by S&P Dow Jones Indices, an S&P Global company. Unlike other major indexes, its constituents are chosen by a committee and it is price-weighted, meaning each company's stock is weighted by its price per share. The value of the index is computed by adding up all the stock prices of its 30 components and dividing the sum by the Dow Divisor.





Key Takeaways

The Dow 30 is a widely-watched stock market index comprising of 30 large U.S. publicly traded companies.It is also called the "Dow" or the "Dow Jones Industrial Average."Constituents are chosen by a committee and the index is price-weighted.The value of the Dow 30 is computed by adding up all the stock prices of its 30 components and dividing the sum by the Dow Divisor.The Dow 30 is considered one of the best barometers of the U.S. stock market and economy.Individuals can invest in the Dow through the SPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF.Critics of the Dow believe it poorly represents the U.S. market as it only contains 30 large-cap companies and is not weighted by market cap.


   Understanding the Dow 30  

Most people in the world will have heard of the Dow. They talk about it on the television and in newspapers all the time, normally when discussing the performance of the stock market and the companies that drive the U.S. economy.



It is its reputation as a proxy for the economy that has made the Dow 30 so famous. The goal of the index is to provide an indicator of the general health of the U.S. economy as well as the way in which the economy is growing or contracting. The companies in the Dow supply many jobs, make up a large portion of retirement funds, and, in many cases, are reliant on the population’s spending habits. In other words, when they do well, it generally means the economy is in good shape. And when they collectively start to stutter, it often suggests that bad times could be forthcoming.



As with other indexes, the Dow 30 isn’t just used for analysis purposes. It’s also possible to invest in it via exchange-traded funds (ETFs), such as the SPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF.



This ETF is popular because it gives investors the chance to buy stakes in 30 of America’s largest, most significant publicly-owned companies all in one holding at a much cheaper cost than if they were to buy all 30 stocks individually. Generally speaking, the companies that appear in this index are blue chip stocks with big customer bases, steady revenues and profits, and excess cash. That makes them highly sought after.






You can invest in the Dow 30 by buying shares in the SPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF.


   History of the Dow 30  

The Dow 30 was created by journalist Charles Dow, the man behind the Wall Street Journal, and his business partner Edward Jones in 1896. It was launched as a spin-off of the Dow Jones Transportation Average and is the second oldest stock market index in the U.S.



The Dow 30 was developed as a simple means of tracking U.S. stock market performance in an age when information flow was often limited. The idea was to let ordinary investors know which direction the market was heading.



Originally, the index consisted of 12 companies considered important to America's economy. They were:



American Cotton OilAmerican SugarAmerican TobaccoChicago GasDistilling & Cattle FeedingGeneral ElectricLaclede GasNational LeadNorth American UtilityTennessee Coal and IronU.S. Leather pfd.U.S. Rubber



Back in the late 19th century, the economy and the Dow's constituents were very much commodity-focused.



The Dow eventually expanded to 20 stocks in 1916 and then 30 stocks in 1928.






To get into the Dow 30 and stay there, companies must be a prominent backbone of the U.S. economy.


   The Companies of the Dow 30  

The Dow 30 is commonly referred to as the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which is a bit of a misleading name. In its early years, the index was made up of many of the heavy industry stocks that helped to build America. And that name has stuck, even though the U.S. economy and the index’s constituents have since changed significantly.



There are no detailed guidelines on why a company is included in the Dow Jones. A committee, which includes employees from S&P Dow Jones Indices and The Wall Street Journal, decides which companies make the cut. The only criteria is that those included must have an “excellent reputation," demonstrate “sustained growth” and be of “of interest to a large number of investors.”



Below is a list of the companies included in the Dow 30 as of April 2023:










Dow 30 Components


Company
Symbol
Year Added




3M
MMM
1976


American Express
AXP
1982


Amgen
AMGN
2020


Apple
AAPL
2015


Boeing
BA
1987


Caterpillar
CAT
1991


Chevron
CVX
2008


Cisco Systems
CSCO
2009


The Coca-Cola Company
KO
1987


Dow
DOW
2019


Goldman Sachs
GS
2013


The Home Depot
HD
1999


Honeywell
HON
2020


IBM
IBM
1979


Intel
INTC
1999


Johnson & Johnson
JNJ
1997


JPMorgan Chase
JPM
1991


McDonald's
MCD
1985


Merck & Co.
MRK
1979


Microsoft
MSFT
1999


NIKE
NKE
2013


Procter & Gamble
PG
1932


Salesforce
CRM
2020


The Travelers Companies
TRV
2009


UnitedHealth Group
UNH
2012


Verizon
VZ
2004


Visa
V
2013


Walgreens Boots Alliance
WBA
2018


Walmart
WMT
1997


The Walt Disney Company
DIS
1991



Dow 30 companies as of April 2023



As you can see, the companies currently in the index are household names spanning a range of different business sectors. And many of them have been in the index for many years. In theory, the makeup of the index can change at any time. However, in reality, few tweaks are made.


   How Is the Dow Calculated?  

The Dow 30 isn’t calculated like other leading indexes tasked with tracking the performance of the stock market. 



Its value is computed by adding up all the stock prices of its 30 components and dividing the sum by what is known as the Dow Divisor, a number used to account for corporate actions such as stock splits, mergers, and dividend payments. As of April 2023, the Dow Divisor, which is continuously adjusted, was 0.15172752595384.






Originally,  Charles Dow simply added up the closing prices of what he considered to be the 12 most important stocks on Wall Street and divided the result by 12 to arrive at an average. 



The Dow 30 is also price-weighted, meaning it places great emphasis on share prices rather than market capitalization. Essentially, the higher or more expensive the share price, the larger a company’s weighting in the index is.


   The Dow 30 and the S&P 500  

Comparisons are often made between the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) and the S&P 500. While both utilize the same strategy of measuring stock market performance through representative companies, there are significant differences in their methodology. For example, the DJIA is price-weighted, while the S&P 500 is market-capitalization-weighted. They also use significantly different criteria to include companies in their listings.


   Disadvantages of the Dow  

Many critics of the Dow argue that it does not significantly represent the state of the U.S. economy as it consists of only 30 large-cap U.S. companies. They believe the number of companies is too small and it neglects companies of different sizes. Many critics believe the S&P 500 is a better representation of the economy as it includes significantly more companies, 500 versus 30, which by nature is more diversified.



Furthermore, critics believe that factoring only the price of a stock in the calculation does not accurately reflect a company, as much as considering a company's market cap would. In this manner, a company with a higher stock price but a smaller market cap would have more weight than a company with a smaller stock price but a larger market cap, which would poorly reflect the true size of a company.




Why is the Dow 30 important?
The Dow 30 has long been viewed as a barometer of the U.S. stock market and economy. When the index is moving up, the economy is said to be in good shape and investors are generally making money. The opposite applies when the index loses value. That explains why its name often comes up in the news.




What is the difference between the S&P 500 and Dow 30?
Both the Dow 30 and S&P 500 are indexes tasked with tracking the performance of U.S. companies. They are among the two most watched indexes in the world but differ considerably in nature. Key differences include size (the Dow 30 tracks 30 stocks, whereas the S&P 500 tracks 500 of them) and methodology: The Dow 30 is price-weighted, uses a divisor, and is chosen by a committee, whereas the S&P 500 is market-cap weighted, tweaked according to a formula, and expressed versus a base year.




Why is it called Dow 30?
It is called Dow 30 because it was created by Charles Dow and consists of 30 companies.


   The Bottom Line  

The Dow 30 is arguably the most talked about stock index on the planet. It’s been around since 1896 and is comprised of America’s finest, largest, and most invested in blue chip companies. That makes it a hot topic of debate and, according to many pundits, a key barometer of the state of the overall stock market and economy.



The index, which is also called the "Dow" or the "Dow Jones Industrial Average,” is different from many other leading indexes. It is handpicked by a committee, price-weighted, and calculated by adding up all the stock prices of its 30 components and dividing the sum by the Dow Divisor. Not everyone loves the Dow 30. But few can deny how influential it is.
What Is the Credit Default Swap Index (CDX)?  

The credit default swap index (CDX), formerly the Dow Jones CDX, is a benchmark financial instrument made up of credit default swaps (CDS) that have been issued by North American or emerging market companies. The CDX was the first CDS index, which was created in the early 2000s and was based on a basket of single issuer CDSs.





Key Takeaways

The Credit Default Swap Index (CDX) is a benchmark index that tracks a basket of U.S. and emerging market single-issuer credit default swaps.Credit default swaps act like insurance policies in the financial world, offering a buyer protection in the case of a borrower's default.The index was established in the early 2000s and was the first such index to aggregate these otherwise over-the-counter (OTC) swaps.The CDX is also a tradable financial product that investors can use to gain broad exposure to the CDS market.Traders and investors can also use the CDX for hedging purposes much more efficiently than purchasing single CDSs.


   Understanding the Credit Default Swap Index (CDX)  

A credit default swap (CDS) is an over-the-counter derivative contract that offers one counterparty protection against a credit event, such as the default or bankruptcy of an issuer. It can be thought of as insurance in the financial world.



The credit default swap index (CDX) tracks and measures total returns for the various segments of the bond issuer market so that the overall return of the index can be benchmarked against funds that invest in similar products.



Investors can use the CDX's tracking to monitor their own portfolios against this benchmark and adjust their holdings accordingly. The CDX helps to hedge risk by protecting bond investors against default, and traders use CDX indexes to speculate about potential changes in issuers’ credit quality. 



The credit default swap index (CDX) is itself a tradable security: a credit market derivative. But the CDX index also functions as a shell, or container, as it is made up of a collection of other credit derivatives: credit default swaps (CDS).



Currently, the CDX contains 125 issuers and is broken down by two different types of credits: investment grade (IG) and high yield (HY). Every six months, the underlying securities of the CDX are examined and, if appropriate, replaced with new securities. This helps to ensure that the index remains current and is not cluttered with investments that no longer exist, or which are very illiquid. 



The CDX index rolls over every six months, and its 125 names enter and leave the index as appropriate. For example, if one of the names is upgraded from below investment grade to investment grade, it will move from the high-yield index to the investment-grade index when the rebalance occurs.


   Why Invest in the Credit Default Swap Index (CDX)?   

The CDX is completely standardized and exchange-traded, unlike single CDSs, which trade over the counter (OTC). As such, the CDX index has a high level of liquidity and transparency.



CDX indexes also may trade at smaller spreads than CDSs. Thus, investors may hedge a portfolio of default swaps or bonds with a CDX more cheaply than if they were to buy many single CDSs to achieve a similar effect.



Finally, the CDX is a well-managed tool that is subjected to intense industry scrutiny twice a year. The existence of tools such as CDX indexes makes it easier for both institutional and individual investors to trade in complicated investment products that they otherwise might not want to own separately.



The CDX index came into being in the early 2000s, a complicated time in financial markets, perhaps to help make investing in complex, high-risk (potentially high-yielding) financial products a little less complicated and a little bit safer.



Later, the LCDX was created, which is also a credit-derivative index with a basket made up of 100 single-name, loan-only CDSs. The difference is that all of the CDSs in the LCDX are leveraged loans.



Although a bank loan is considered secured debt, the names that usually trade in the leveraged loan market are lower-quality credits. Therefore, the LCDX index is used mostly by those looking for exposure to high-yield debt, but with greater risk.
What Is the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA)?  

The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) is a stock market index that tracks 30 large, publicly-owned blue-chip companies trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and Nasdaq. The Dow Jones is named after Charles Dow, who created the index in 1896 along with his business partner, Edward Jones. Also referred to as the Dow 30, the index is considered to be a gauge of the broader U.S. economy.





Key Takeaways

The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a widely-watched benchmark index in the U.S. for blue-chip stocks.The DJIA is a price-weighted index that tracks 30 large, publicly-owned companies trading on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq.The index was created by Charles Dow in 1896 to serve as a proxy for the broader U.S. economy.The DJIA's composition can change over time based on economic trends.The Dow Divisor is a constant that was created to address the simple average issue.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA)  

The DJIA is the second-oldest U.S. market index after the Dow Jones Transportation Average. The DJIA was designed to serve as a proxy for the health of the broader U.S. economy. Often referred to simply as the Dow, it is one of the most-watched stock market indexes in the world. While the Dow includes a range of companies, all of them can be described as blue-chip companies with consistently stable earnings.



In the early 20th century, the performance of industrial companies was typically tied to the overall growth rate in the economy. That cemented the relationship between the Dow's performance and the overall economy. Even today, for many investors, a strong-performing Dow equals a strong economy while a weak-performing Dow indicates a slowing economy.



As the economy changes over time, so does the composition of the index. A component of the Dow may be dropped when a company becomes less relevant to current trends of the economy, to be replaced by a new name that better reflects the shift. For instance, a company may be removed from the index when its market capitalization drops because of financial distress.



Stocks with higher share prices are given greater weight in the index. So a higher percentage move in a higher-priced component will have a greater impact on the final calculated value. At the Dow's inception, Charles Dow calculated the average by adding the prices of the 12 Dow component stocks and dividing by 12. The result was a simple average. Over time, there were additions and subtractions to the index that had to be accounted for, such as mergers and stock splits. At that point, a simple mean calculation no longer made sense.






   The Dow Divisor and Index Calculation  

The Dow Divisor was created to address the simple average issue. The divisor is a predetermined constant that is used to determine the effect of a one-point move in any of the approximately 30 stocks that comprise the Dow. There have been instances when the divisor needed to be changed so that the value of the Dow stayed consistent. As of Aug. 2023, the Dow Divisor was 0.15172752595384.



The Dow is not calculated using a weighted arithmetic average and does not represent its component companies' market cap unlike the S&P 500. Rather, it reflects the sum of the price of one share of stock for all the components, divided by the divisor. Thus, a one-point move in any of the component stocks will move the index by an identical number of points.



DJIA Price = SUM (Component Stock Prices) ÷ Dow Divisor






The S&P 500 has outperformed the DJIA on an annualized basis over the last three-, five-, and 10-year periods.


   Dow Index Components  

The DJIA launched in 1896 with just 12 companies, primarily in the industrial sector. They included railroads, cotton, gas, sugar, tobacco, and oil. The index grew to 30 components by 1928. Since then, it's changed many times—the very first came three months after the 30-component index launched. The first large-scale change was in 1932 when eight stocks in the Dow were replaced.



The Dow is reevaluated on a regular basis. Companies are replaced when they no longer meet the index's listing criteria with those that do. Over time, the index became a bellwether of the U.S. economy, reflecting economic changes. For example, U.S. Steel was removed from the index in 1991 and replaced by building material company Martin Marietta.



Other major changes to the DJIA came:



In 1997, when Westinghouse Electric, Bethlehem Steel, Texaco, and Woolworths were replaced by Travelers' Group, Johnson & Johnson, Hewlett-Packard, and Walmart.In 1999, when Chevron, Sears Roebuck, Union Carbide, and Goodyear Tire were dropped while Home Depot, Intel, Microsoft, and SBC Communications were added in their place.



Walgreens Boots Alliance replaced General Electric in June 2018. In August 2020, Salesforce, Amgen, and Honeywell were added to the Dow, replacing ExxonMobil, Pfizer, and Raytheon Technologies. Raytheon joined the DJIA earlier that year after United Technologies merged with Raytheon Company.






DowDuPont spun off DuPont and was replaced by Dow Chemical Company in 2019.



The table below lists the companies included in the DJIA alphabetically as of Aug. 2023:










Dow Jones Industrial Average Components


Company
Symbol
Year Added




3M
MMM
1976


American Express
AXP
1982


Amgen
AMGN
2020


Apple
AAPL
2015


Boeing
BA
1987


Caterpillar
CAT
1991


Chevron
CVX
2008


Cisco Systems
CSCO
2009


The Coca-Cola Company
KO
1987


Dow
DOW
2019


Goldman Sachs
GS
2013


The Home Depot
HD
1999


Honeywell
HON
2020


IBM
IBM
1979


Intel
INTC
1999


Johnson & Johnson
JNJ
1997


JPMorgan Chase
JPM
1991


McDonald's
MCD
1985


Merck & Co.
MRK
1979


Microsoft
MSFT
1999


NIKE
NKE
2013


Procter & Gamble
PG
1932


Salesforce
CRM
2020


The Travelers Companies
TRV
2009


UnitedHealth Group
UNH
2012


Verizon
VZ
2004


Visa
V
2013


Walgreens Boots Alliance
WBA
2018


Walmart
WMT
1997


The Walt Disney Company
DIS
1991



30 DJIA companies as of Aug. 2023


   Historical Milestones  

The following are some important historical milestones achieved by the Dow: 



March 15, 1933: The largest one-day percentage gain in the index happened during the 1930s bear market, totaling 15.34%. The Dow gained 8.26 points and closed at 62.10.
Oct. 19, 1987: The largest one-day percentage drop took place on Black Monday. The index fell 22.61%. There was no evident explanation for the crash, although program trading may have been a contributing factor.
Sept. 17, 2001: The fourth-largest one-day point drop—and the largest at the time—took place on the first day of trading following the 9/11 attacks in New York City. The Dow dropped 684.81 points or about 7.1%; however, it is important to note that the index had been dropping before Sept. 11, losing more than 1,000 points between Jan. 2 and Sept. 10. The DJIA started to make traction after the attacks and regained all of what it lost, closing above 10,000 for the year.
May 3, 2013: The Dow surpasses the 15,000 mark for the first time in history. 
Jan. 25, 2017: The Dow closes above 20,000 points for the first time.
Jan. 4, 2018: The index closes at 25,075.13, the first close above 25,000 points.
Jan. 17, 2018: The Dow closes at 26,115.65, the first close above 26,000 points.
Feb. 5, 2018: The Dow falls a record 1,175.21 points.
Dec. 26, 2018: The Dow records its largest one-day point gain of 1,086.25.
July 11, 2019: The Dow breaks 27,000 for the first time in its history.
Feb. 12, 2020: The Dow hits its pre-pandemic high of 29,551.
March 2020: The Dow Jones crashes with back-to-back record down days amid the global coronavirus pandemic, breaking below 20,000 and falling 3,000 points in a single day amid several 2,000 and 1,500 up and down moves. It officially entered bear market territory on March 11, 2020, ending the longest bull market in history that began in March 2009.
Nov. 16, 2020: The Dow finally breaks its pre-COVID-19 high, reaching 29,950.44 points.
Nov. 24, 2020: The Dow breaks the 30,000 level for the first time, closing at 30,045.84.
July 2021: On July 12, 2021, the Dow trades above 35,000 for the first time. On July 23, 2021, it closes above 35,000 for the first time.
Nov. 2021: The Dow trades above 36,000 for the first time.
Jan. 4, 2022: The Dow hits an all-time high of 36,799.65.






Individuals can invest in the Dow, which would mean gaining exposure to all of the companies listed in it, through exchange-traded funds (ETFs), such as the SPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF (DIA).


   Limitations of the DJIA  

Many critics of the Dow argue that it does not significantly represent the state of the U.S. economy as it consists of only 30 large-cap U.S. companies. They believe the number of companies is too small and it neglects companies of different sizes. Many critics believe the S&P 500 is a better representation of the economy as it includes significantly more companies, 500 versus 30.



Furthermore, critics believe that factoring only the price of a stock in the calculation does not accurately reflect a company, as much as considering a company's market cap would. In this manner, a company with a higher stock price but a smaller market cap would have more weight than a company with a smaller stock price but a larger market cap, which would poorly reflect the true size of a company.



The Dow is also a price-weighted index, as opposed to being weighted by market capitalization. This means that stocks in the index with higher share prices have greater influence, regardless if they are smaller companies overall in terms of market value. In a price-weighted index, a stock that increases from $110 to $120 will have the same net effect on the index as a stock that increases from $10 to $20, even though the percentage move for the latter is far greater than that of the higher-priced stock. This also means that stock splits can have an impact on the index, whereas they would not for a market cap-weighted index.




What Does the Dow Jones Industrial Average Measure?
The DJIA tracks the price movements of 30 large companies in the United States. Such companies include Microsoft and Home Depot. The selected companies are from all major U.S. sectors, except utilities and transportation.




When Did the DJIA Top 10,000 for the First Time?
The Dow Jones Industrial Average hit 10,000 for the first time in March 1999. The DJIA then hit 11,750 in January 2000, before falling to below 7,200 in Oct. 2002 after the dot-com crash.




The DJIA Is Based on the Prices of How Many Stocks?
The Dow Jones Industrial Average is made up of 30 large stocks. All the stocks are based in the United States. The DJIA is also known as the Dow 30.




How Does the Dow Differ from the S&P 500?
The S&P 500 and DJIA are the two most-watched stock indexes in the U.S.; however, these two benchmarks are very different:The Dow Jones Industrial Index tracks 30 large-cap stocks while the S&P 500 tracks the largest 500 stocks in the U.S. market.The Dow Jones index is price-weighted while the S&P 500 is market-cap weighted.The stocks in the Dow are chosen by a committee. The stocks in the S&P 500 are added according to a formula.The Dow Jones uses a divisor; the S&P 500 is expressed versus a base year.


   The Bottom Line  

The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a stock index of 30 U.S. blue-chip large-cap companies, which has become synonymous with the American stock market as a whole. The index, however, only has 30 companies, and the index itself is price-weighted, meaning that it does not always present an accurate reflection of the broader stock market.



Companies in the DJIA are also chosen by a committee and are balanced to try to represent the state of the overall economy. This means that certain companies may be added to or deleted from the index periodically without much in the way of being able to predict when or which stock will be changed. Despite its limitations, however, the Dow still holds a special place in American finance.
What Is the Dow Theory?  

The Dow Theory is a financial theory that says the market is in an upward trend if one of its averages (e.g., industrials or transportation) advances above a previous important high and is accompanied or followed by a similar advance in another average. For example, if the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) climbs to an intermediate high, an investor might watch the Dow Jones Transportation Average (DJTA) climb to confirm an upward trend.





Key Takeaways

The Dow Theory is a technical framework that predicts the market is in an upward trend if one of its averages advances above a previous important high, accompanied or followed by a similar advance in another corresponding average.The theory is predicated on the notion that the market discounts everything, consistent with the efficient market hypothesis.In such a paradigm, different market indices must confirm each other in terms of price action and volume patterns until trends reverse.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding the Dow Theory  

The Dow Theory is an approach to trading developed by Charles H. Dow, who, with Edward Jones and Charles Bergstresser, founded Dow Jones & Company, Inc. and developed the Dow Jones Industrial Average in 1896. Dow fleshed out the theory in a series of editorials in the Wall Street Journal, which he co-founded.



Charles Dow died in 1902, and due to his death, never published his complete theory on the markets, but several followers and associates have published works that have expanded on the editorials. Some of the most important contributions to Dow Theory include the following:



William P. Hamilton's The Stock Market Barometer (1922)Robert Rhea's The Dow Theory (1932)E. George Schaefer's How I Helped More Than 10,000 Investors to Profit in Stocks (1960)Richard Russell's The Dow Theory Today (1961)



Dow believed that the stock market as a whole was a reliable measure of overall business conditions within the economy and that by analyzing the overall market, one could accurately gauge those conditions and identify the direction of significant market trends and the likely direction individual stocks would take.



Aspects of the theory have lost ground—for example, its emphasis on the transportation sector and railroads—but Dow's approach forms the core of modern technical analysis.


   How the Dow Theory Works  

There are six main components to the Dow Theory.


  1. The Market Discounts Everything  

The Dow Theory operates on the efficient market hypothesis (EMH), which states that asset prices incorporate all available information.



Earnings potential, competitive advantage, management competence—all these factors and more are priced into the market, even if not everyone knows all or any of these details. In more strict readings of this theory, even future events are discounted in the form of risk.


  2. There Are Three Primary Kinds of Market Trends  

Markets experience primary trends which can last a year or more, such as a bull or bear market. Within the broader trends, secondary trends make smaller movements, such as a pullback within a bull market or a rally within a bear market; these secondary trends can last a few weeks to a few months. Finally, minor trends can last a few days to a few weeks. These small fluctuations are considered market noise.


  3. Primary Trends Have 3 Phases  

According to the Dow Theory, the primary bull and bear trends pass through three phases.



A bull market's phases are the:



Accumulation phase: Prices rise alongside an increase in volume.Public participation (or big move) phase: Retail and average investors begin to notice the upward trend and join in—generally, this is the longest phase.Excess phase: The market reaches a point where experienced investors and traders begin exiting their positions while the larger average investing population continues to add to their positions.



A bear market's phases are the:



Distribution phase, where news of a decline begins to be distributed throughout the investing community via various channels.Public participation phase: Opposes that of a bull market participation phase—average and retail investors are selling stocks and exiting positions to reduce losses. Again, this is generally the longest phase.Panic (or despair) phase: Investors have lost all hopes of a correction or full reversal and continue selling at scale.


  4. Indices Must Confirm Each Other  

For a trend to be established, Dow postulated indices or market averages must confirm each other. This means that the signals that occur on one index must match or correspond with the signals on the other. If one index, such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average, shows a new primary uptrend, but another remains in a primary downward trend, traders should not assume that a new trend has begun.



Dow used the two indices that he and his partners invented, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) and the Dow Jones Transportation Average (DJTA), on the assumption that if business conditions were healthy—as a rise in the DJIA might suggest—the railroads would be profiting from moving the freight this business activity required; thus, the DJTA would also be rising.


  5. Volume Must Confirm the Trend  

Trading volume generally increases if the price moves in the direction of the primary trend and decreases if it moves against it. Low volume signals a weakness in the trend. For example, in a bull market, buying volume should increase as the price rises and falls during secondary pullbacks because traders still believe in the primary bullish trend. If selling volume picks up during a pullback, it could be a sign that more market participants are turning bearish.


  6. Trends Persist Until a Clear Reversal Occurs  

Reversals in primary trends can be confused with secondary trends. It is difficult to determine whether an upswing in a bear market is a reversal or a short-lived rally followed by still lower lows. The Dow Theory advocates caution, insisting that a possible reversal be confirmed by comparing indexes.


   Special Considerations  

Here are some additional points to consider about the Dow Theory.


  Closing Prices and Line Ranges  

Charles Dow relied solely on closing prices and was not concerned about the intraday movements of the index.



Another feature in Dow Theory is the idea of line ranges, also referred to as trading ranges in other areas of technical analysis. These periods of sideways (or horizontal) price movements are seen as a period of consolidation. Therefore, traders should wait for the price movement to break the trend line before coming to a conclusion on which way the market is headed. For example, if the price were to move above the line, it's likely that the market would trend up.


  Signals and Identification of Trends  

One challenging aspect of implementing Dow Theory is accurately identifying trend reversals. Remember, a follower of Dow Theory trades with the overall direction of the market, so it is vital that they recognize the points at which this direction shifts.



One of the main techniques used to identify trend reversals in Dow Theory is peak-and-trough analysis. A peak is defined as the highest price of a market movement in a period, while a trough is seen as the lowest price of a market movement in a period. Note that Dow Theory assumes that the market doesn't move in a straight line but from highs (peaks) to lows (troughs), with the overall moves of the market trending in a direction.



An upward trend in Dow Theory is a series of successively higher peaks and troughs. A downward trend is a series of successively lower peaks and troughs.



The sixth tenet of Dow Theory contends that a trend remains in effect until there is a clear sign that the trend has reversed. Similarly, the market will continue to move in a primary direction until a force, such as a change in business conditions, is strong enough to change the direction of this primary move.


  Reversals  

A reversal in the primary trend is signaled when the market cannot create successive peaks and troughs in the direction of the primary trend.



During an uptrend, a reversal occurs when the index consecutively fails to reach higher highs and higher lows over a long period. Instead, the index moves in a series of lower highs followed by lower lows.



The reversal of a downward primary trend occurs when the market no longer falls to lower lows and highs. Consecutively higher highs and higher lows in a downward-trending market demonstrate a possible reversal to an upward trend.



It's vital to remember that primary trend reversals can take months to present themselves—a change in price direction over a one-month, two-month, or even three-month period might only be a market correction.




What Are the 3 Trends of the Dow Theory?
The three trends are primary, secondary, and minor. The primary trend is the long-term trend, called a bull or bear. Secondary trends are smaller trends, such as a market correction. Finally, minor trends are day-to-day price fluctuations in the market.




What Is the Goal of Dow Theory?
The overall goal of the Dow Theory is to identify the market's primary trend through proof and confirmation.




What Factors Affect Dow?
The Dow Jones Industrial Average, known as the Dow, is affected by the prices of the stocks that make up the index. Stock prices are affected by many factors.


   The Bottom Line  

The Dow Theory attempts to identify the primary trend a market is in. It is comprised of three primary trends, each made up of secondary and minor trends. The theory assumes that the market already has knowledge of every possible factor and that prices reflect current information. This implies that there is no need to investigate further why assets are priced the way they are but to act on price movements and volume and depend on signals and confirmation for trend reversals.
What Is a Down Payment?  

A down payment is a sum a buyer pays upfront when purchasing an expensive good such as a home or car. It represents a percentage of the total purchase price, and the balance is usually financed. A down payment can significantly reduce the amount the borrower owes to the lender, the amount of interest they will pay over the life of the loan, and monthly payment amounts.





Key Takeaways:

A down payment is paid upfront in a financial transaction, such as purchasing a home or car.Buyers often take out loans to finance the remainder of the purchase price.The higher the down payment, the less the buyer will need to borrow to complete the transaction and reduce the interest paid over the long term.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   How Down Payments Work  

Buyers commonly pay a down payment when purchasing a home or car. The average first-time home buyer pays 6% of the home price as their down payment and takes out a mortgage from a bank or other financial institution for the remainder.



For car purchases, it is common to pay a down payment of at least 20% of a new car's price. Because the value of a car depreciates quickly, a high down payment ensures buyers do not owe more than the car is worth after a year or two. Like mortgages, car loans often carry interest, and a down payment reduces the interest paid over the life of the loan.


   Types of Down Payments  
  Home Purchases  

In the United States, a 20% down payment on a home has been the standard. Because a buyer's credit score, income level, and debt-to-income ratio help determine a loan's interest rate, borrowed amount, and terms of the mortgage, a larger down payment can be beneficial.



For 2023, the minimum down payment is 3% for conventional home loans per rules set by government-sponsored entities Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. For FHA loans that help low- to moderate-income families attain homeownership, the minimum down payment is 3.5%. The lowest down payment requirements commonly carry income limits.





Important

Upfront fees on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac home loans changed in May 2023. Fees were increased for homebuyers with higher credit scores, such as 740 or higher, while they were decreased for homebuyers with lower credit scores, such as those below 640. Another change: Your down payment will influence what your fee is. The higher your down payment, the lower your fees, though it will still depend on your credit score. Fannie Mae provides the Loan-Level Price Adjustments on its website.






Find loan options from the best mortgage lenders.


  Auto Purchases  

For car purchases, a down payment of 20% or more can make it easier for a buyer to be approved for a loan and get a better interest rate and other terms. Car dealers may also offer promotional terms of 0% down for buyers who qualify. While that means no down payment is necessary, the lender may charge a higher interest rate.






A down payment of 20% or more may get you a lower interest rate on an auto loan.


   Benefits of a Large Down Payment  

A significant down payment decreases the amount of interest paid over the life of the loan and lowers monthly payments.



Interest: A $100,000 loan with a 5% interest rate means $5,000 in interest in the first year. However, with a $20,000 down payment and a loan of only $80,000, first-year interest will be just $4,000. For a 30-year mortgage loan, borrowing $100,000 at 5% interest costs $93,256 in interest. Borrowing just $80,000 saves nearly $20,000, with a total interest cost of $74,605.
Monthly Payments: A larger down payment reduces monthly payments. A $100,000 loan at 5% interest carries monthly payments of $537, while an $80,000 loan has a payment of $429.
Mortgage Insurance: Private Mortgage Insurance (PMI) is usually required when you have a conventional loan and make a down payment of less than 20 percent of the home’s purchase price. PMI serves to protect the lender if the buyer stops making payments on the loan. Borrowers can request the lender drop the PMI requirement once the equity in the home reaches 20%.


   Paying Off a Loan  

Homeowners unable to put down a large down payment can plan to make additional payments toward their mortgage principal each month, reducing the loan amount and interest over time. This is often referred to as making accelerated payments or accelerated amortization. Buyers may choose to refinance their mortgage if their finances improve and make a larger down payment on the new loan.




Is a Down Payment the Same as a Deposit?
In most cases, yes. Down payment and deposit are often used interchangeably. Both terms refer to the same process of providing an upfront payment as a percentage of a total sale.




Why Is It Important to Have a Down Payment?
A down payment will reduce the loan amount, interest cost, and monthly payments. The amount of the down payment may also reduce the interest rate provided by the lender.




Why Do Lenders Require Down Payments?
Downpayments reduce the risk for lenders. Not only do they reduce the amount of money that needs to be lent out; by acting as the "cost of entry" for a loan, but a downpayment can also be used to prove that the borrower is serious about a loan.


   The Bottom Line  

A down payment is a sum a buyer pays upfront when purchasing a home or car and is a percentage of the total purchase price. The higher the down payment, the less the buyer will need to borrow to complete the transaction, the lower their monthly payments, and the less they'll pay in interest over the long term.
What Is a Down Round?  

A down round refers to a private company offering additional shares for sale at a lower price than had been sold for in the previous financing round.



Simply put, more capital is needed and the company discovers that its valuation is lower than it was prior to the previous round of financing. This "discovery" forces them to sell their capital stock at a lower price per share.





Key Takeaways

A down round refers to a private company offering additional shares for sale at a lower price than had been sold for in the previous financing round.Company valuation is subject to variables (failure to meet benchmarks, emergence of competition, venture capital funding) causing it to be lower than it was in the past.Down round could lead to lower ownership percentages, loss of market confidence, and negatively impact company morale.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Down Round  

Private companies raise capital through a series of funding phases, referred to as rounds. Ideally, the initial round should raise the capital needed where subsequent rounds are not required. At times, the burn rate for startups is much higher than anticipated, leaving the company no other option than to go through another round of financing.



As a business develops, the expectation is that sequential funding rounds are executed at progressively higher prices to reflect the increasing valuation of the company. The reality is that the actual valuation of a company is subject to variables (failure to meet benchmarks, the emergence of competition, venture capital funding) which could cause it to be lower than it was in the past. In these situations, an investor would only consider participating if the shares, or convertible bonds, were being offered at a lower price than they were in the preceding funding phase. This is referred to as a down round.



While the earliest investors in startup companies tend to buy at the lowest prices, investors in subsequent rounds have the advantage of seeing whether companies have been able to meet stated benchmarks including product development, key hires, and revenues. When benchmarks are missed, subsequent investors may insist on lower company valuations for a variety of reasons including concerns over inexperienced management, early hype versus reality, and questions about a company’s ability to execute its business plan.



Businesses that have a clear advantage over their competition, especially if they are in a lucrative field, are often in a great position for raising capital from investors. However, if that edge disappears due to the emergence of competition, investors may seek to hedge their bets by demanding lower valuations on subsequent funding rounds.



Generally speaking, investors compare the product development stage, management capabilities, and a variety of other metrics of competing companies to determine a fair valuation for the next funding round.



Down rounds can occur even when a company has done everything right. To manage risk, venture capital firms often demand lower valuations along with measures such as seats on the board of directors and participation in decision-making processes. While these situations can result in significant dilution and loss of control by the founders of a company, the involvement of a venture capital firm may provide what the company requires to reach its primary objectives.


   Implications and Alternatives  

While each funding round typically results in the dilution of ownership percentages for existing investors, the need to sell a higher number of shares to meet financing requirements in a down round increases the dilutive effect.



A down round highlights the possibility that the company might have been over-hyped from a valuation standpoint initially and are now reduced to selling their stock at what amounts to a discount. This perception could negatively affect the market's confidence in the company's ability to be profitable and also deal a significant blow to employee morale.



The alternatives to a down round are:



The company cuts its burn rate. This step would only be viable if there were operational inefficiencies else it would be self-defeating in that it could hamper company growth.
Management could consider short-term, or bridge, financing.
Renegotiate terms with current investors.
Shut the company down.



Due to the potential for drastically lower ownership percentages, loss of market confidence, negative impact on company morale, and the less than appealing alternatives, raising capital via a down round is often viewed as a company’s last resort, but it may represent its only chance of staying in business.
What Is Downside Risk?  

Downside risk is an estimation of a security's potential loss in value if market conditions precipitate a decline in that security's price. Depending on the measure used, downside risk explains a worst-case scenario for an investment and indicates how much the investor stands to lose. Downside risk measures are considered one-sided tests since the potential for profit is not considered.





Key Takeaways

Downside risk is an estimation of a security's potential loss in value if market conditions precipitate a decline in that security's price.Downside risk is a general term for the risk of a loss in an investment, as opposed to the symmetrical likelihood of a loss or gain.Some investments have an infinite amount of downside risk, while others have limited downside risk.Examples of downside risk calculations include semi-deviation, value-at-risk (VaR), and Roy's Safety First ratio.


   Understanding Downside Risk  

Some investments have a finite amount of downside risk, while others have infinite risk. The purchase of a stock, for example, has a finite amount of downside risk bounded by zero. The investor can lose their entire investment, but not more. A short position in a stock, however, as accomplished through a short sale, entails unlimited downside risk since the price of the security could continue rising indefinitely.



Similarly, being long an option—either a call or a put—has a downside risk limited to the price of the option's premium, while a “naked” short call option position has an unlimited potential downside risk because there is theoretically no limit to how far a stock can climb.



A naked call option is considered the riskiest option strategy, since the seller of the option doesn’t own the security, and would have to purchase it in the open market to fulfill the contract. As an example, if you sell a call option with a strike price of $1 and the stock climbs to $1,000 by contract expiration, you would have to purchase the stock at $1,000 and sell it at $1; not a good return on investment



Investors, traders, and analysts use a variety of technical and fundamental metrics to estimate the likelihood that an investment's value will decline, including historical performance and standard deviation calculations. In general, many investments that have a greater potential for downside risk also have an increased potential for positive rewards.



Investors often compare the potential risks associated with a particular investment to possible rewards. Downside risk is in contrast to upside potential, which is the likelihood that a security's value will increase.


   Example of Downside Risk: Semi-Deviation  

With investments and portfolios, a very common downside risk measure is downside deviation, which is also known as semi-deviation. This measurement is a variation of standard deviation in that it measures the deviation of only bad volatility. It measures how large the deviation in losses is.



Since upside deviation is also used in the calculation of standard deviation, investment managers may be penalized for having large swings in profits. Downside deviation addresses this problem by only focusing on negative returns.



Standard deviation (σ), which measures the dispersion of data from its average, is calculated as follows:


















σ


=






∑



i


=


1



N



(



x


i



−


μ



)


2




N


















where:
















x


=


Data point or observation
















μ


=


Data set’s average
















N


=


Number of data points







\begin{aligned} &\sigma = \sqrt{ \frac{ \sum_{i=1}^{N} (x_i - \mu)^2 }{ N } } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &x = \text{Data point or observation} \\ &\mu = \text{Data set's average} \\ &N = \text{Number of data points} \\ \end{aligned}


​σ=N∑i=1N​(xi​−μ)2​​where:x=Data point or observationμ=Data set’s averageN=Number of data points​



The formula for downside deviation uses this same formula, but instead of using the average, it uses some return threshold—the risk-free rate is often used.



Assume the following 10 annual returns for an investment: 10%, 6%, -12%, 1%, -8%, -3%, 8%, 7%, -9%, -7%. In the above example, any returns that were less than 0% were used in the downside deviation calculation.



The standard deviation for this data set is 7.69% and the downside deviation of this data set is 3.27%. This shows that about 40% of the total volatility is coming from negative returns and implies that 60% of the volatility is coming from positive returns. Broken out this way, it is clear that most of the volatility of this investment is "good" volatility.


   Other Measures of Downside Risk  
  The SFRatio  

Other downside risk measurements are sometimes employed by investors and analysts as well. One of these is known as Roy's Safety-First Criterion (SFRatio), which allows portfolios to be evaluated based on the probability that their returns will fall below a minimum desired threshold. Here, the optimal portfolio will be the one that minimizes the probability that the portfolio's return will fall below a threshold level.






Investors can use the SFRatio to choose the investment that is most likely to achieve a required minimum return.


  VaR  

At an enterprise level, the most common downside risk measure is probably Value-at-Risk (VaR). VaR estimates how much a company and its portfolio of investments might lose with a given probability, given typical market conditions, during a set time period such as a day, week, or year.



VaR is regularly employed by analysts and firms, as well as regulators in the financial industry, to estimate the total amount of assets needed to cover potential losses predicted at a certain probability—say something is likely to occur 5% of the time. For a given portfolio, time horizon, and established probability p, the p-VaR can be described as the maximum estimated loss during the period if we exclude worse outcomes whose probability is less than p.
What Are Downstream Operations?  

Downstream operations are the processes involved in converting oil and gas into the finished product. These include refining crude oil into gasoline, natural gas liquids, diesel, and a variety of other energy sources. The closer an oil and gas company is to the process of providing consumers with petroleum products, the further downstream the company is said to be.





Key Takeaways

Downstream operations are the processes involved with converting oil and gas into their finished products.There are upstream, midstream, and downstream operations within the oil and gas industries.Downstream operations can also play a part in the medical field and agriculture sector. Companies that handle operations in the downstream sector are entities closest to the customers. An oversupply of crude oil in the upstream section (i.e., the oil companies) may benefit downstream companies. 


   Understanding Downstream Operations  

Most large oil companies like ExxonMobil are described as "integrated" because they combine upstream activities, which include exploration and production, with downstream operations. Oil and gas operations can be divided into upstream, midstream, and downstream operations, with the refining process taking place either midstream or downstream and the distribution of oil and gas occurring in the downstream phase.



Companies in the downstream sector are those that provide the closest link to everyday users. After crude oil is discovered and extracted—the upstream process—it's shipped and transported—the midstream process. Thereafter, the oil is refined, marketed, distributed, and sold, which is the downstream process. However, the refining of crude oil to petroleum products may be conducted in midstream operations.






Downstream business categories mainly include oil refining, supply and trading, and product marketing and retail. 


   Types of Downstream Operations   

The downstream process is the one that provides the most products that are closely linked to consumers, and it is the sector of the oil and gas industry that people can relate to the most. Some of these products include liquefied natural gas, gasoline, heating oil, synthetic rubber, plastics, lubricants, antifreeze, fertilizers, and pesticides. 



The downstream industry also plays a key role in other sectors and industries of the economy that may not necessarily be obvious to some, including the medical field. The downstream process has a big influence on some of the products and equipment needed and used by medical professionals. Similarly, the downstream process plays a key role in the agricultural sector because of its relationship to pesticides and fertilizers, as well as the fuel needed for farming equipment. 


   Downstream vs. Upstream  

The difference between downstream and upstream operations lies largely in the stage of the process of getting crude oil to the hands of the consumer. Upstream operations include exploring new landscapes for oil potential, discovering the crude oil, drilling and extracting it, and the initial discovery part. Another name for the upstream oil sector is the exploration and production (E&P) sector. Meanwhile, downstream operations as explored in this article include processes that occur after the production phase, all the way up to the point of sale. 





Text

The closer an oil and gas company is to the process of providing consumers with petroleum products, the further downstream the company is said to be.


   Example of Downstream Operations  

Although an oversupply of crude oil and lower oil prices may hurt integrated and upstream oil companies, downstream companies benefit substantially. When crude oil prices fall sharply in a short period, petroleum products typically lag crude oil prices since there is a strong demand for refined petroleum products. As crude oil prices fall, refining margins typically grow. However, as oil prices increase, refining margins may experience declines.



For example, assuming an oil refining company, ABC Inc., primarily processes West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil to gasoline. Since gasoline experiences seasonality, there are periods when downstream companies may only generate low-profit margins or operate at a loss. If it's during the winter when demand for gasoline is slow, but the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has announced that it would cut production. 



In this example, gasoline prices are $2.50 per gallon or $105 per barrel, while WTI crude prices are $95 per barrel. Therefore, ABC Inc. only has a margin of $10 per barrel ($105 – $95). 



Assume the following year that gasoline prices remain at $2.50 per gallon but WTI crude oil prices fall substantially due to a global supply glut. The oversupply causes WTI crude oil prices to fall to $50 per barrel. Therefore, ABC Inc. has a refining margin of $55 per barrel ($105 – $50). However, this margin does not take into account other costs the company may incur, as the crack spread just takes into account the costs associated with crude oil.


   Downstream FAQs  
  What Is Downstream in Software Development?  

In software, downstream development refers to designing tools for applications that already exist or are deployed. Meanwhile, upstream refers to source code that is further "up" into development, such as bug fixes and patches.


  What Is Downstream in Telecommunications?  

In a telecommunications network, downstream data is anything that is sent from the network, cloud, or service provider "down" to the user. For example, downloading a video is considered downstream since it's been funneled down from the host.


  What Is Downstream Marketing?  

Downstream marketing focuses on short-term sales and increasing revenue through investing with ad dollars, social media, and direct sales tactics. In the meantime, upstream marketing is more long-term and strategic, focused on new product releases.


  What Is Downstream Processing in Biology?  

In biotechnology, downstream processing is the process of taking biological materials from natural sources like animal or plant tissue and purifying the proteins.


   The Bottom Line  

In terms of the oil and gas industry, the downstream process can be thought of as the steps closest to the consumer, who is ultimately using the oil to fill up their cars, power their engines, and using it in their daily life. Though most oil and gas companies are integrated, it's important to note that downstream processes indicate when the oil is refined, marketed, distributed, and sold.
What Is a Downtrend?  

A downtrend is a gradual reduction in the price or value of a stock or commodity, or the activity of a financial market. A downtrend can be contrasted with an uptrend.





Key Takeaways

Downtrends are characterized by lower peaks and troughs and mimic changes in the perception of investors.A downtrend is fueled by a change in the supply of stocks investors want to sell compared with the demand for the stock by investors who want to buy.Downtrends are responses to changes that surround the security, whether macroeconomic or those associated with a company's business activity.


   Understanding Downtrends  

While the price may move intermittently higher or lower, downtrends are characterized by lower peaks and lower troughs over time. Technical analysts pay attention to downtrends because they represent something more than a random losing streak. Securities in a downtrend seem to be more likely to continue trending lower until some market condition changes, implying that a downtrend marks a fundamentally deteriorating condition.



A security that changes from an uptrend to a downtrend rarely makes an instantaneous change from one to the other. Instead, the price action in an uptrend shows signs of strain and then the downtrend incrementally begins. Both upward and downward trends are marked by their peaks and troughs (also referred to as swing highs and swing lows), and the general direction they appear to be proceeding. The following illustration shows a series of peaks and troughs (peaks are even-numbered, troughs are odd).












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



The dynamic shown in this illustration reflects all trend changes from upward to downward. Though specifics vary in each instance, three characteristics of this change are common:



The price action falls below the most recent trough (shown in points 1-3)The next peak fails to rise higher than its predecessor (points 3-5)The downward trend increases its likelihood of continuing (points 5-7)



The first sign of a downtrend marks a point in the price action where supply exceeds demand. The number of available sellers and the quantity of the security they want to sell is more than the number of ready buyers and the quantity they want to buy. Market participants are dictating that the security should not be priced as high as it is.



The second indication is the increasing number of market participants convinced that they must no longer own (or own as much of) the security. The number of sellers increases simultaneously with the number of buyers decreasing.



The third sign is usually accompanied by news or new information that confirms the suspicions of those who are determined to exit the market, or who are no longer considering buying the security. More buyers back away and additional sellers become eager to take profits or limit losses.


   Trading Downtrend  

The majority of equity traders seek to avoid downtrends because they are inherently focused on upward trends and trade long only. Downtrends can be found in every trading time frame, whether minutes, days, weeks, months, or years. Traders look for ways to identify a downtrend as early as possible. Some traders prefer to trade both long and short, so they identify downtrends for new trading opportunities.



Traders recognize that once a downtrend has been established it is best to proceed with caution while entering into any new long positions. This hesitancy exacerbates the downtrend by contributing to reduced demand. Traders who trade both long and short recognize the opposite, a new opportunity to profit from the downtrend.



Short sellers profit from downtrends by borrowing and then immediately selling shares with the agreement to repurchase them in the future. These are known as short positions or short selling. If the asset's price continues to decline, the trader profits from the difference between the immediate sale price and the lower future repurchase price. Short sellers add to the price action by entering with sell orders, accelerating the downward trend. Such traders look to profit from the next low swing, patiently awaiting the trend to continue lower.



Traders often use technical indicators and chart patterns to identify and confirm downtrends. Moving averages can be used to identify the overall trend. If the price is lower than a moving average, the stock is likely to be in a downtrend, and vice versa for an uptrend. Technical indicators such as the relative strength index (RSI) or Average Directional Index  (ADX), can also show the magnitude or strength of the downtrend at a given point, which helps a trader decide whether or not to enter a short position.


   Example of a Prolonged Downtrend  

The lengthy downtrend in the General Electric Co. (GE) stock price reveals that the company's troubles were deeper than originally anticipated and that layoffs, spinoffs, plant closings, and product cancellations were signaling a major change in the economic environment and one for which that GE was not prepared.















GE Downtrend - Weekly Chart.



In this chart, the stock makes its final peak followed by the next trough moving lower than the previous trough (as shown in the inset). This lower trough coincides with the moment that the supply of stock that investors want to sell has outnumbered the demand that investors have to buy the stock at the price. This initial sign of weakness, an example of the first sign mentioned previously, was not accompanied by news of the company's troubles. Investors were able to determine that the company's prospects were on the decline.



The lower peaks and troughs that follow show an extended downtrend lasting more than two years, a time when the rest of the market was generally moving higher. Traders that had taken a bearish stance on the stock following the breakdown from the first trough would have found many opportunities for profitable trades. Alternatively, long traders may have locked in their profits at the beginning of the downtrend and re-entered their long position after the stock showed signs of a rebound.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Are Drag-Along Rights?  

A drag-along right is a provision or clause in an agreement that enables a majority shareholder to force a minority shareholder to join in the sale of a company. The majority owner doing the dragging must give the minority shareholder the same price, terms, and conditions as any other seller.


   Understanding Drag-Along Rights  

Share offerings, mergers, acquisitions, and takeovers can be complicated transactions. Certain rights may be included and instituted with the terms of a share class offering or in a merger or acquisition agreement.





Key Takeaways

Drag-along rights may be included and instituted with the terms of a share class offering or in a merger or acquisition agreement.Drag-along rights eliminate the current minority shareholders through the sale of 100% of a company's securities to a potential buyer.Tag-along rights differ from drag-along rights since tag-along rights offer the minority shareholders the option to sell but do not mandate an obligation.



The drag-along provision itself is important to the sale of many companies because buyers are often looking for complete control of a company. Drag-along rights help to eliminate the current minority owners and sell 100% of a company's securities to a potential buyer.



While drag-along rights themselves may be clearly detailed in an agreement, differentiation between majority and minority may be something to watch out for. Companies can have different types of share classes. A company’s bylaws will denote the ownership and voting rights that shareholders have, which may have implications on majority vs. minority.


   Considerations for Drag-Along Right Provisions  

Drag-along rights can be instituted through capital fundraising or during merger and acquisition negotiations. If, for example, a technology startup opens a Series A investment round, it does so to sell ownership of the company to a venture capital firm in return for capital infusion. In this specific example, majority ownership resides with the chief executive officer (CEO) of the company who owns 51% of the firm’s shares. The CEO wants to maintain majority control and also wants to protect himself in the case of an eventual sale. To do so, he negotiates a drag-along right with the share offering to a venture capital firm, giving him the right to force the venture capital firm to sell its interest in the company if a buyer ever presents itself.



This provision prevents any future situation in which a minority shareholder may in any way be able to undermine the sale of a company that was already approved by the majority shareholder or a collective majority of existing shareholders. It also leaves no shares of the acquired company behind in the hands of previous shareholders.



In some cases, drag-along rights may be more popular in agreements involving private companies. Drag-along rights from privately held shares may also end when a company goes public with a new share offering agreement. An initial public offering of share classes will usually nullify previous ownership agreements and institute new drag-along rights if applicable for future shareholders.


   Benefits of Drag-Along Rights for Minority Shareholders  

While drag-along rights are meant to mitigate minority shareholder effects, they can be beneficial for minority shareholders. This type of provision requires that the price, terms, and conditions of a share sale be homogeneous across the board, meaning small equity holders can realize favorable sales terms that may be otherwise unattainable.



Typically, drag-along right provisions mandate an orderly chain of communication to the minority shareholders. This provides advance notice of the corporate action mandated for the minority shareholder. It also provides communication on the price, terms, and conditions that will apply to the shares held by the minority shareholders. Drag-along rights can be nullified if the proper procedures surrounding their enaction are not followed.


   Drag-Along Rights vs. Tag-Along Rights  

Tag-along rights differ from drag-along rights, though they have the same underlying focus. Tag-along rights similarly may be found in share offerings as well as merger and acquisition agreements. Tag-along rights offer minority shareholders the option to sell but do not mandate an obligation. If tag-along rights exist, it can have different implications for the terms of a merger or acquisition than would be discussed with drag-along rights.


   Real-World Example  

In 2019, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Celgene Corporation entered into a merger agreement under which Bristol-Myers Squibb acquired Celgene in a cash and stock transaction valued at approximately $74 billion. Post-acquisition, Bristol-Myers Squibb accounted for 69% of shares for the combined entity and converted Celgene shareholders accounted for the remaining 31%. Celgene’s minority shareholders were not allowed any special options and were required to comply with the receipt of one Bristol-Myers share and $50 for each Celgene share owned.



In this deal, the Celgene shares were delisted. The minority shareholders were required to comply with the terms of the deal and were not eligible for special considerations. Had Celgene’s shares not been delisted, drag-along and tag-along rights could have become more of a factor. In some situations such as this, majority shareholders may negotiate special share rights under an alternative class structure that may not be available to minority shareholders due to the implications of drag-along rights.
What Is a Dragonfly Doji Candlestick?  

A Dragonfly Doji is a type of candlestick pattern that can signal a potential reversal in price to the downside or upside, depending on past price action. It's formed when the asset's high, open, and close prices are the same.



The long lower shadow suggests that there was aggressive selling during the period of the candle, but since the price closed near the open it shows that buyers were able to absorb the selling and push the price back up.





Key Takeaways

A dragonfly doji can occur after a price rise or a price decline.The open, high, and close prices match each other, and the low of the period is significantly lower than the former three. This creates a "T" shape.The appearance of a dragonfly doji after a price advance warns of a potential price decline. A move lower on the next candle provides confirmation.A dragonfly doji after a price decline warns the price may rise. If the next candle rises that provides confirmation.Candlestick traders typically wait for the confirmation candle before acting on the dragonfly doji.






   Understanding the Dragonfly Doji Candlestick  

Following a downtrend, the dragonfly candlestick may signal a price rise is forthcoming. Following an uptrend, it shows more selling is entering the market and a price decline could follow. In both cases, the candle following the dragonfly doji needs to confirm the direction.



The dragonfly doji pattern doesn't occur frequently, but when it does it is a warning sign that the trend may change direction. Following a price advance, the dragonfly's long lower shadow shows that sellers were able to take control for at least part of the period. While the price ended up closing unchanged, the increase in selling pressure during the period is a warning sign.



The candle following a potentially bearish dragonfly needs to confirm the reversal. The candle following must drop and close below the close of the dragonfly candle. If the price rises on the confirmation candle, the reversal signal is invalidated as the price could continue rising.



Following a price decline, the dragonfly doji shows that the sellers were present early in the period, but by the end of the session the buyers had pushed the price back to the open. This indicates increased buying pressure during a downtrend and could signal a price move higher.



The signal is confirmed if the candle following the dragonfly rises, closing above the close of the dragonfly. The stronger the rally on the day following the bullish dragonfly, the more reliable the reversal is.



Traders typically enter trades during or shortly after the confirmation candle completes. If entering long on a bullish reversal, a stop loss can be placed below the low of the dragonfly. If enter short after a bearish reversal, a stop loss can be placed above the high of the dragonfly.



The dragonfly doji works best when used in conjunction with other technical indicators, especially since the candlestick pattern can be a sign of indecision as well as an outright reversal pattern. A dragonfly doji with high volume is generally more reliable than a relatively low volume one. Ideally, the confirmation candle also has a strong price move and strong volume.



In addition, the dragonfly doji might appear in the context of a larger chart pattern, such as the end of a head and shoulders pattern. It's important to look at the whole picture rather than relying on any single candlestick.


   Example of How to Use the Dragonfly Doji  

Dragonfly dojis are very rare, because it is uncommon for the open, high, and close all to be exactly the same. There are usually slight discrepancies between these three prices. The example below shows a dragonfly doji that occurred during a sideways correction within a longer-term uptrend. The dragonfly doji moves below the recent lows but then is quickly swept higher by the buyers.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



Following the dragonfly, the price proceeds higher on the following candle, confirming the price is moving back to the upside. Traders would buy during or shortly after the confirmation candle. A stop-loss can be placed below the low of the dragonfly.



The example shows the flexibility that candlesticks provide. The price wasn't dropping aggressively coming into the dragonfly, but the price still dropped and then was pushed back higher, confirming the price was likely to continue higher. Looking at the overall context, the dragonfly pattern and the confirmation candle signaled that the short-term correction was over and the uptrend was resuming.


   Dragonfly Doji vs. Gravestone Doji  

A gravestone doji occurs when the low, open, and close prices are the same, and the candle has a long upper shadow. The gravestone looks like an upside-down "T." The implications for the gravestone are the same as the dragonfly. Both indicate possible trend reversals but must be confirmed by the candle that follows.















Dojis.
Image by Julie Bang Â© Investopedia 2019


   Limitations of Using the Dragonfly Doji  

The dragonfly doji is not a common occurrence, therefore, it is not a reliable tool for spotting most price reversals. When it does occur, it isn't always reliable either. There is no assurance the price will continue in the expected direction following the confirmation candle.



The size of the dragonfly coupled with the size of the confirmation candle can sometimes mean the entry point for a trade is a long way from the stop loss location. This means traders will need to find another location for the stop loss, or they may need to forgo the trade since too large of a stop loss may not justify the potential reward of the trade.



Estimating the potential reward of a dragonfly trade can also be difficult since candlestick patterns don't typically provide price targets. Other techniques, such as other candlestick patterns, indicators, or strategies are required in order to exit the trade when and if profitable.




What Is a Doji Candlestick Pattern?
A doji is a name for a candlestick chart for a security that has an open and close that are virtually equal. Dojis are often used as components in patterns used to detect trading opportunities.




What Is the Dragonfly Doji Used for?
The dragonfly doji is used to identify possible reversals and occurs when the open and closing print of a stock's day range is nearly identical.




What Is the Difference Between a Doji and a Spinning Top?
Spinning tops appear similarly to doji, where the open and close are relatively close to one another, but with larger bodies. In a doji, a candle's real body will make up to 5% of the size of the entire candle's range; any more than that, it becomes a spinning top.
What Is a Drawdown?  

A drawdown is a peak-to-trough decline during a specific period for an investment, trading account, or fund. A drawdown measures the historical risk of different investments, compares fund performance, or monitors personal trading performance. It is usually quoted as the percentage between the peak and the subsequent trough. If a trading account has $10,000 in it, and the funds drop to $9,000 before moving back above $10,000, then the trading account witnessed a 10% drawdown.





Key Takeaways

A drawdown refers to how much an investment or trading account is down from the peak before it recovers back to the peak.Drawdowns are typically quoted as a percentage, but dollar terms may also be used if applicable for a specific trader.Drawdowns are a measure of downside volatility.The time it takes to recover a drawdown should also be considered when assessing drawdowns.A drawdown and loss aren't necessarily the same thing. Most traders view a drawdown as a peak-to-trough metric, while losses typically refer to the purchase price relative to the current or exit price.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Drawdowns  

As noted above, a drawdown measures an investment or trading account's decline from the peak before it recovers back to that peak. It remains in effect as long as the price remains below the peak. In the example above, the drawdown is only 10% until the account moves back above $10,000. Once the account moves back above $10,000, then the drawdown is recorded.



This method of recording drawdowns is useful because a trough can't be measured until a new peak occurs. As long as the price or value remains below the old peak, a lower trough could occur, which would increase the drawdown amount.



Drawdowns help determine an investment's financial risk. The Sterling ratios use drawdowns to compare a security's possible reward to its risk.



A drawdown can refer to the negative half of the distribution of returns of a stock’s price; i.e., the change from a share price’s peak to its trough is often considered its drawdown amount. For example, if a stock drops from $100 to $50 and then rallies back to $100.01 or above, then the drawdown was $50 or 50% from the peak.






Drawdowns are of particular concern to those in retirement. In many cases, a drastic drawdown, coupled with continued withdrawals in retirement can deplete retirement funds considerably.


   Stock Drawdowns  

A stock’s total volatility is typically measured by its standard deviation, yet many investors, are mostly concerned about drawdowns instead. This is especially true for retirees who withdraw funds from pensions and retirement accounts



Volatile markets and large drawdowns can be problematic for retirees. Many look at the drawdown of their investments, from stocks to mutual funds, and consider their maximum drawdown (MDD) so they can potentially avoid those investments with the biggest historical drawdowns.


   Risk of Drawdowns  

Drawdowns present a significant risk to investors when considering the uptick in share price needed to overcome a drawdown.



For example, it may not seem like much if a stock loses 1%, as it only needs an increase of 1.01% to recover to its previous peak. But a drawdown of 20% requires a 25% return to reach the old peak. A 50% drawdown, seen during the 2008 to 2009 Great Recession, requires a whopping 100% increase to recover the former peak.



Some investors choose to avoid drawdowns of greater than 20% before cutting their losses and turning the position into cash instead.






The uptick in share price needed to overcome a particularly large drawdown can become significant enough that some investors end up just getting out of the position altogether and putting the money into cash holdings instead.


   Assessment of Drawdowns  

Drawdown risk is typically mitigated by having a well-diversified portfolio and knowing the length of the recovery window. If a person is early in their career or has more than 10 years until retirement, the drawdown limit of 20% that most financial advisors advocate should be sufficient to shelter the portfolio for a recovery.



But retirees need to be especially careful about drawdown risks in their portfolios, since they may not have a lot of years for the portfolio to recover before they start withdrawing funds. Diversifying a portfolio across stocks, bonds, precious metals, commodities, and cash instruments can offer some protection against a drawdown, as market conditions affect different asset classes in different ways.






Don't confuse stock price or market drawdowns with retirement drawdowns. A retirement drawdown refers to how retirees withdraw funds from their pension or retirement accounts.


   Time to Recover a Drawdown  

While the extent of drawdowns is a factor in determining risk, so is the time it takes to recover a drawdown. Not all investments act alike. Some recover quicker than others. A 10% drawdown in one hedge fund or trader's account may take years to recover that loss.



On the other hand, another hedge fund or trader may recover losses very quickly, pushing the account to its peak value in a short period of time. Therefore, drawdowns should also be considered in the context of how long it has typically taken the investment or fund to recover the loss.


   Example of a Drawdown  

Assume a trader decides to buy Apple (AAPL) stock at $100. The price rises to $110 (peak) but then swiftly falls to $80 (trough) and then climbs back above $110. The peak price for the stock was $110, and the trough was $80. Keeping in mind that drawdowns measure peak to trough, we can determine that the drawdown is 27.3% or $30 ÷ $110 x 100.



This shows that a drawdown isn't necessarily the same as a loss. The stock's drawdown was 27.3%, yet the trader would show an unrealized loss of 20% when the stock was at $80. This is because most traders view losses in terms of their purchase price ($100 in this case), and not the peak price the investment reached after entry.



Now let's suppose the price then rallies to $120 (peak) and then falls back to $105 before rallying to $125. The new peak is now $120 and the newest trough is $105. This is a drawdown of 12.5% OR OF $15. This is calculated as $15 ÷ $120.




What Is a Drawdown?
A drawdown is the decline of an asset between the peak and the trough that follows. Keep in mind that a trough can't be measured until there is a new peak that forms. Drawdowns are normally expressed as a percentage.




Is a Retirement Drawdown the Same As a Stock Drawdown?
No. While a stock drawdown refers to the decline of a stock from its peak before it hits that peak again, a retirement drawdown is different. A drawdown in retirement is the receipt of income during retirement. Retirees take out a certain portion of their retirement savings to maintain a certain standard of living. This is commonly known as a drawdown percentage. Drawing down too much means a retiree may struggle financially while drawing down too little means they may leave money behind after they die.




What Is a Loan Drawdown?
The term loan drawdown refers to the disbursement of funds from a lender to a borrower. Put simply, it's the act of borrowing money from a lender. The date when the money is disbursed by the lender is referred to as the drawdown date. For instance, a home loan or mortgage is a drawdown loan used to purchase property.


   The Bottom Line  

There's a fine line between turning a profit and losing your money when you invest your money. But understanding some of the intricacies of the investment world may help you keep your head in the game. Knowing what drawdowns mean and how they can help assess risk and compare investments may help you become a better trader as you mitigate your losses.
What Is a Drawee?  

Drawee is a legal and banking term used to describe the party that has been directed by a depositor to pay a certain sum of money to the person presenting a check or draft written by the depositor.



A typical example of a drawee involves cashing a paycheck. The bank that cashes your check is the drawee, the employer who wrote the check is the drawer, and you are the payee.





Key Takeaways


A drawee is the person or entity that pays the holder of a check or draft. The holder of the check is the payee and the check writer is the drawer.
Most often, if you deposit a check, your bank or check-cashing service is the drawee.
Payday loan shops that offer check cashing services act as a drawee for customers but charge a fee for the service.
When coupons are used in a retail transaction, such as at a grocery store, the retail outlet becomes the drawee. 



   How a Drawee Works  

The drawee performs the function of an intermediary for a financial transaction. Its purpose is to redirect funds from the payer, or drawer, account to to the payee.



Often, the drawee is a financial institution that holds the payer funds within a deposit account under its management. Consumer banks regularly perform this function, removing funds from a depositor’s account to pay the obligation represented by a check.



Check-cashing services also perform the duties of a drawee but normally require a small fee to complete the transaction.



Additionally, money order and wire transfer companies that exist outside of the traditional banking format also qualify. The money order functions as the bill of exchange that when presented by the payee is honored by the company that received the funds from the payer.






The drawer is the individual or organization that writes a check (or creates a bill of exchange) that instructs the drawee to distribute funds to the payee.


   Drawees in Other Industries  

There are instances outside of financial institutions where a party may be considered a drawee, if only in an informal sense.



For example, when a customer uses a manufacturer’s coupon as part of a sales transaction, the store accepting the coupon can be seen as the drawee in relation to the customer. It is the entity facilitating the transaction.



The customer presents a document created by a company that is the drawer or payer behind the coupon. The store honoring the coupon is the drawee. The customer is the payee, or person who receives the coupon's benefit.



Most of these types of transactions do not require that actual money be handed to the customer. However, because money is funded as a discount on the total cost, a transaction may result in an actual payment, depending on various regulations governing such activity.



Once the coupon is turned in to the retailer, the retailer can then claim the funds supported by the company issuing the coupon (again, the drawer). This leads to no actual out-of-pocket loss on the part of the drawee, just as for financial institutions cashing a check, because the funds are ultimately removed from the drawer's account.




What Are the 3 Parties in a Drawee Transaction?
The three parties to a transaction involving a drawee are the drawer, the drawee, and the payee.




How Does a Payor Relate to a Drawee?
A payor, or drawer, is the person with the money who issues a check. The drawee is the entity that honors the check and distributes funds to the person who presents, and is identified by, the check.




What Happens When a Drawee Receives a Bill of Exchange?
A bill of exchange represents instructions to the drawee to pay the person presenting it with a certain amount of money. This type of transaction occurs every day in the normal course of business. That's why you can walk into your bank with a check written to you and can rest assured that you or your account at that bank will receive those funds.


   The Bottom Line  

A drawee is the entity that facilitates the transfer of funds between a party who has those funds (the drawer) and the party who is intended to receive them (the payee). A well-known example of a drawee is a bank or other financial institution.
What Is a Drawing Account?  

A drawing account is an accounting record maintained to track money and other assets withdrawn from a business by its owners. A drawing account is used primarily for businesses that are taxed as sole proprietorships or partnerships. Owner withdrawals from businesses that are taxed as separate entities must be accounted for generally as either compensation or dividends.





Key Takeaways

A drawing account is a ledger that tracks money and other assets withdrawn from a business, usually a sole proprietorship or a partnership, by its owner(s).A drawing account acts as a contra account to the business owner’s equity; an entry that debits the drawing account will have an offsetting credit to the cash account in the same amount.Drawing accounts work year to year: An account is closed out at the end of each year, with the balance transferred to the owner’s equity account, and then reestablished in the new year.


   How a Drawing Account Works  

An owner’s draw occurs when the owner of an unincorporated business such as a sole proprietorship, partnership, or limited liability company (LLC) takes an asset such as money from their business for their own personal use. Owners of such businesses are free to take money from their business bank accounts and deposit it in their personal accounts to pay personal expenses as and when they choose—provided, of course, that they play by the rules.






A drawing account covers all assets, not just cash. For example, this means that equipment withdrawn from the business for the owner’s personal use would also count as a drawing.



A drawing account is a contra account to the owner’s equity. The drawing account’s debit balance is contrary to the expected credit balance of an owner’s equity account because owner withdrawals represent a reduction of the owner’s equity in a business.



In keeping with double entry bookkeeping, every journal entry requires both a debit and a credit. Because a cash withdrawal requires a credit to the cash account, an entry that debits the drawing account will have an offsetting credit to the cash account for the same amount.



Since the drawing account tracks distributions to owners in a given year, it must be closed out at the end of the year with a credit (representing the total withdrawn), and the balance is transferred to the main owner’s equity account with a debit. The drawing account is then reopened and used again the following year for tracking distributions.






Because taxes on withdrawals are paid by the individual partners, there is no tax impact to the business associated with the withdrawn funds.



Creating a schedule from the drawing account shows the details for and summary of distributions made to each business partner. The appropriate final distributions may be made at year-end, ensuring that each partner receives the correct share of the company’s earnings, according to the partnership agreement.






Since the drawing account is not an expense, it does not show up on the income statement of the business.


   Recording Transactions in the Drawing Account  

A journal entry to the drawing account consists of a debit to the drawing account and a credit to the cash account. A journal entry closing the drawing account of a sole proprietorship includes a debit to the owner’s capital account and a credit to the drawing account.



For example, at the end of an accounting year, Eve Smith’s drawing account has accumulated a debit balance of $24,000. Eve withdrew $2,000 per month for personal use, recording each transaction as a debit to her drawing account and a credit to her cash account. The journal entry closing the drawing account requires a credit to Eve’s drawing account for $24,000 and a debit of $24,000 to her capital account.




What is the entry of a drawings account?
The accounting entry typically would be a debit to the drawing account and a credit to the cash account—or whatever asset is withdrawn.




Is a drawing account an asset?
The drawing account represents a reduction of the business’ assets, as the assets in question are withdrawn and transferred to the owner for personal use.




Are owner draws an expense?
No. Owner draws are for personal use and do not constitute a business expense. This means, among other things, that they are not tax deductible.


   The Bottom Line  

Small business owners should be aware of the rules before withdrawing cash or other assets from their business. Owner draws can be helpful and function as a method for a business owner to pay themselves. However, it’s important to remember that they are not considered business expenses, must be recorded in the correct way, and can weaken the company financially if made excessively.
What Is Dry Powder?  

Dry powder is a slang term referring to marketable securities that are highly liquid and considered cash-like. Dry powder can also refer to cash reserves kept on hand by a company, venture capital firm or individual to cover future obligations, purchase assets or make acquisitions. Securities considered to be dry powder could be Treasuries or other short-term fixed income investment that can be liquidated on short notice in order to provide emergency funding or allow an investor to purchase assets.


   Understanding Dry Powder  

In its most basic form, dry powder is a term that refers to the amount of cash reserves or liquid assets available for use. These cash reserves or short-term marketable securities are usually kept on hand to cover future obligations that may or may not be foreseen. Therefore, the term dry powder can be used in situations of personal finance, in the corporate environment and in venture capital or private equity investing.



Having dry powder on hand can provide investors with an advantage over others who may be holding less liquid assets. For example, a venture capitalist might decide to hold a substantial strategic amount of cash on hand in order to take advantage of private equity investments that may present themselves for immediate funding. This cash would colloquially be referred to as the venture capitalist's dry powder.





Key Takeaways

Dry powder refers to cash or marketable securities that are low-risk and highly liquid and convertible to cash.Funds held as dry powder are kept in reserve to be deployed in case of emergency.The term is often used in terms of venture capitalists, where dry powder allows them to invest in opportunities as they arise.


   Dry Powder in the Corporate Environment  

When a company refers to its dry powder, it is speaking about the amount of its cash and current assets that can be used to fund working capital needs. If, for example, a company decides to invest almost all of its cash in long-term inventory that cannot be easily sold, it is reducing the amount of dry powder it has on hand. If the economy subsequently takes a downturn, and customers reduce the amount of purchases they make, the company would be stuck with illiquid inventory, but still have monthly operating costs that it needs to pay. In this case, the reduction in dry powder was ill-informed. Companies generally maintain a sufficient amount of dry powder on hand to maintain daily operations.


   Dry Powder for Venture Capitalists  

Dry powder is a commonly used term in the venture capital and startup world. This is because all venture capitalists want adequate cash on hand to either invest in a new opportunity or provide additional funding to portfolio companies to fuel growth. Therefore, many venture capitalists keep dry powder on hand, choosing to abstain from most investments rather than depleting their capital too quickly.


   Dry Powder for Personal Finance  

Similarly to corporations and venture capital funds, individuals should keep dry powder in case of future obligations, opportunities or emergencies. When an individual keeps their powder dry, it means they are holding at least some of their personal net worth in cash or marketable securities that can be drawn on quickly if needed.
What Is a Dual Class Stock?  

A dual class stock is when a company issues two share classes. A dual class stock structure can consist of Class A and Class B shares, for example. These shares can differ in terms of voting rights and dividend payments.



When multiple share classes of stock are issued, typically one class is offered to the general public, while the other is offered to company founders, executives, and family. The class offered to the general public often has limited or no voting rights, while the class available to founders and executives has more voting power and often provides for majority control of the company.





Key Takeaways

A company or stock with a dual-class structure has two or more classes of shares with different voting rights.Typically insiders are given access to a class of shares that provide greater control and voting rights, while the general public is offered a class of shares with little or no voting rights.Supporters say these types of structures allow the people who founded and currently run the company to think long-term, rather than be at the mercy of shorter-term-oriented investors who want to see bigger profits right away.Dual-class structures are controversial because they do not allow public shareholders a say in running the company and distribute risk unequally.


   Understanding a Dual Class Stock  

Dual class stock is designed to give specific shareholders voting control. Classes of stock with unequal voting shares may be created to satisfy owners who don't want to give up control, but do want the public equity market to provide financing.



In most cases, these so-called super-voting shares are not publicly traded and company founders and their families are most commonly the controlling groups in dual-class companies. Although there is no standard nomenclature for multiple share classes, Class A shares are normally superior to Class B shares. In other cases, though, the reverse is true. That's why investors should research the details of a company's share classes if they are considering investing in a firm with more than one class of shares.



Well-known companies, such as Ford and Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway, have dual class stock structures, which provide founders, executives, and families the ability to control majority voting power with a relatively small percentage of total equity.



The dual-class structure at Ford, for instance, gives the Ford family control of 40% of the voting power, while owning a small percentage of the company's total equity. An extreme example is Echostar Communications CEO Charlie Ergen, who controls around 91.8% of the vote with his powerful Class A shares.






Dual-class structures allow companies to access public capital without sacrificing control.


   Special Considerations  

While they've recently become popular, dual-class structures have been around for some time in various forms.



The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) banned dual-class structures in 1940 after an outcry in 1926 over automotive company Dodge Brothers' public offering, which consisted of non-voting shares for the public. However, the exchange reinstated the practice during the 1980s in the wake of competition from other exchanges. Once shares are listed, companies cannot reverse any voting rights attributed to the new class, or issue any classes of shares with superior voting rights.





7%

The approximate percentage of U.S. companies in the Russell 3000 Index with a dual- or multiple-class structure, according to a Harvard Law School study.



In recent times, the number of companies opting for a dual-class structure during listing has multiplied. This is particularly the case among technology startups, many of which use this strategy to retain control over their outfits. Alphabet Inc.'s Google is the most famous example of this trend (see below).



Alphabet Inc.'s Google is the most famous example of this trend. Many investors were frustrated at Google’s initial public offering (IPO) when the internet giant, boasting a market capitalization among the top 30 firms worldwide, issued second Class B shares to founders with 10 times the amount of votes as the ordinary Class A shares sold to the public.



Several stock indexes have stopped including companies with dual-class structures. The S&P 500 and FTSE Russell are two such indexes.


   Dual Class Stock Controversy  

Dual class stock structures are controversial. Their supporters argue that the structure enables founders to demonstrate strong leadership and the placing of long-term interests over near-term financial results. It also helps founders retain control over the company as potential takeovers can be avoided through their supermajority voting shares.



On the other hand, opponents argue that the structure allows a small group of privileged shareholders to maintain control, while other shareholders (with less voting power) provide the majority of the capital. In effect, there is an unequal distribution of risk.



The founder is able to access capital from public markets at minimal economic risk. Shareholders carry a major part of the risk related to strategy.



Academic research has proved that powerful classes of shares for insiders can actually hinder long-term outperformance. A middle path has been suggested by another group of shareholders. According to them, the effects of a dual-class structure can be limited by placing a time-bound restriction on such structures and allowing shareholders to accumulate voting interest over time.


   Examples of Dual-Class Structures  

Alphabet subsidiary Google is the most famous example of a company with a dual-class structure. When it was listed in 2004, the search giant unveiled two classes of shares in its offering. Class A shares were reserved for regular investors and had one vote per share. Class B shares were reserved for founders and executives and had 10 times as many votes as those for the "ordinary" A shares.



Many investors were frustrated at this initial public offering (IPO), given that the internet giant boasted a market capitalization among the top 30 firms worldwide. Later, the company added a third class of shares. These Class C shares came with zero voting rights.



Other examples of companies with dual-class structures are Meta (formerly Facebook), Zynga, Groupon, and Alibaba.
What Is Dual Income, No Kids (DINK)?  

"Dual income, no kids" (DINK) is a slang phrase for a household in which there are two incomes and no children. Couples living in a DINK household frequently have more disposable income because they do not have the added expenses that come with children. They also often spend less per person on housing than singles because of their ability to share kitchens, bathrooms, and living rooms.



For related insight, contrast DINKs with DEWKs, a living arrangement wherein both partners work and are raising children.





Key Takeaways

"Dual income, no kids" (DINK) is a slang phrase for a household in which there are two incomes and no children.DINKs are often targets of marketing efforts for investment products and luxury items because they usually have higher disposable incomes.There are several main categories of dual-income couples with no kids, including new couples, empty nesters, gay married couples, and other childless couples.


   Understanding Dual Income, No Kids (DINK)  

The lack of dependents in the household can allow for more income to be put toward savings or spent on other interests. Dual income households without children do not automatically become rich or even upper middle class. The salaries of the partners still limit how much they can spend and how often they can spend it. However, DINKs are often targets of marketing efforts for investment products and luxury items, such as expensive cars and vacations.



Costs for food, clothing, and long-term education associated with raising one or more children are eliminated from the household. Without children, the partners can save that money or spend it on creature comforts for themselves. That could allow the couple to increase their expenditures on meals. They can also buy articles of clothing that might otherwise be deemed too expensive. Sellers of consumer goods, the travel industry, and other companies may also target this demographic.



The couple would also not require as much living space to accommodate themselves and their needs. In other words, they would not need to look for housing that includes bedrooms for children to occupy. That could allow them to rent or purchase less expensive dwellings with smaller spaces. Furthermore, they save money compared to singles by sharing goods and services. For example, DINKs usually only need one kitchen and typically share hotel rooms during their vacations.






Sharing with each other is what gives DINKs more disposable income than singles. On the other hand, DINKs have more disposable income than couples that are married with children because they don't have to share with kids.



The availability of more disposable cash also creates the possibility for further exploration of investment opportunities. The money that might have been spent on children could be put into stocks, bonds, or other investment vehicles. Investing even a few thousand dollars per year can make a substantial difference in the long run.


   Types of DINKs  

There are several main categories of dual-income couples with no kids. They have different advantages and disadvantages for the partners and those trying to market to them.


  New Couples  

Whenever people first combine their households, it frees up funds for other purchases. This effect can be magnified by other events, such as graduation. Suppose a couple waits until graduating from college to get married and move in together. They could go from making $20,000 each per year to a combined annual income of $80,000 or more. New couples like this are deciding how they are going to live their lives. Naturally, it is a good marketing strategy to focus on these consumers and try and win them over.



Everyone has a plan for these new couples. Financial institutions will want them to start investing in mutual funds and ETFs. They will have all sorts of charts and graphs showing how money the couple saves now will benefit from compounding. Real estate agents will encourage new couples to go ahead and buy large family homes. They may claim real estate is a better investment than stocks or bonds, and now is the time to start preparing for kids in the future. Others will try to sell sports cars, vacations, and other luxury goods to new couples.


  Empty Nesters  

After the children have grown up and moved out, couples may become part of the dual income, no kids demographic again. This time, the money they spent on kids is freed up, and they might also gain funds by selling their house. Empty nesters are usually in their 40s or 50s and might need to start getting serious about saving for retirement. If they already have substantial savings, it could be time to start taking more vacations before the couple gets too old to enjoy them.


  Gay Married Couples  

Gay married couples are a relatively new DINK category, but they are important to marketers for a variety of reasons. First, gender income inequality means that men usually make more money than women. So, gay married men have even more disposable income than other dual income couples with no kids. Secondly, gay married couples often remain DINKs forever because they are less likely to have kids.


  Other Childless Couples  

Although this group is sometimes overlooked, many couples cannot have children or decide to remain childless. These outcomes are particularly likely when trying to have or adopt children might be too risky or costly. By staying in the dual income, no kids demographic, these couples continue to enjoy the benefits of higher disposable income.
What Is a Dual Listing?  

A dual listing refers to a listing of any security on two or more different exchanges. Companies use dual listings because of their benefits, which include additional liquidity, increased access to capital, and the ability for their shares to trade for longer periods if the exchanges on which their shares are listed are in different time zones.



Some exchanges have a number of listing categories for companies that seek a dual listing, each with different requirements and benefits.





Key Takeaways

A dual listing is the listing of any security on two or more exchanges. The main advantage of a dual listing is the access to additional capital and increased liquidity.A popular way for non-U.S. companies to dual list in the U.S. is by using ADRs, or American Depository Receipts.Considering exchange rates and other complications, stock prices should remain the same on both exchanges. If not, an arbiter will bring them together.Some companies find it difficult to monitor their share trading in two markets simultaneously and may need to initiate separate marketing and investor-relations plans.


   How a Dual Listing Works  

A dual listing, also known as interlisting or cross-listing, is attractive to many non-U.S. companies because of the depth of the capital markets in the U.S., the world’s biggest economy.



Data indicate that companies tend to list in countries that have a similar culture or share a common language with their native jurisdiction. For example, most of the biggest Canadian companies are also listed on U.S. exchanges.



A foreign company may seek an ordinary listing, the most prestigious type of listing, on an exchange such as the NYSE or NASDAQ, but the requirements to do so are stringent.



In addition to meeting the exchange’s listing criteria, the foreign company also has to satisfy U.S. regulatory requirements, restate its financials, and arrange for clearing and settlement of its trades.



A popular form of dual listing for many leading non-U.S. companies is through American Depositary Receipts (ADRs). An ADR represents the foreign shares of the company held in trust by a custodian bank in the company’s home country and carries the same rights of the shares.



Note that the stock price of a dual-listed company should be approximately the same in both jurisdictions, after taking currency differences and transaction costs into account.



Otherwise, arbitrageurs would step in and exploit the price differences. That said, price divergences do occur from time to time, especially when trading hours do not overlap and there has been a significant price move in one market.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Dual Listing  

There are numerous advantages of a dual listing. Companies get access to a larger pool of potential investors, which can be beneficial for investors as well.



For example, many Australian and Canadian resource companies list their shares on European exchanges because of substantial investor interest, partly due to the relative paucity of local resource companies.



A dual listing improves a company’s share liquidity and its public profile because the shares trade on more than one market. A dual listing also enables a company to diversify its capital-raising activities, rather than being reliant only on its domestic market.



Among the drawbacks is that dual listing is expensive due to the costs involved in the initial listing and ongoing listing expenses. Differing regulatory and accounting standards may also necessitate the need for additional legal and finance staff.



A dual listing could place more demands on management as well, given the additional time required to communicate with investors in the second jurisdiction through roadshows, for example.




How Does a Dual Listing Affect a Company's Share Price?
A dual listing does not affect a company's share price. After taking into consideration transaction costs and exchange rates, a company's share price should be the same on both exchanges and not impacted in any way. Over the long term; however, it is possible that a company with strong financials and business outlook can benefit from a dual listing by having more liquidity and greater access to capital, which could improve the share price.




What Is the Difference Between a Dual Listing and a Secondary Listing?
A dual listing primarily relates to listings on two or more exchanges when the exchanges differ greatly, particularly in regards to geography and requirements. A secondary listing is when the requirements and geography of the different exchanges hone more closely to one another.




What Are Some Companies With Dual Listings?
Companies with dual listings include Investec, Unilever, Carnival, Mondi Group, and Rio Tinto.
What Is a Due From Account?  

A due from account is an asset account in the general ledger used to track money owed to a company that is currently being held at another firm. It is typically used in conjunction with a due to account and is sometimes referred to as intercompany receivables.





Key Takeaways

A due from account is a debit account that indicates the number of deposits currently held at another company. A due from account tracks assets owed to a company and is not used for the tracking of any liabilities or obligations.The due from account is typically used in conjunction with a due to account.Due from accounts focus on incoming assets, also known as receivables, while the due to accounts focus on outgoing assets, also called payables.Due from accounts are used to separate incoming and outgoing funds, making accounting easier, particularly for audits.Nostro accounts are a type of due from account that are used to facilitate foreign exchange and trade transactions.Due from accounts and due to accounts should never be negative, which would signify bad data. Both accounts can, however, be zero.


   Understanding a Due From Account  

A general ledger stores and organizes data, providing a record of every financial transaction that takes place during the life of an operating company. In it, investors will find credit and debit accounts. The due from account falls into the latter category.



A due from account holds assets in another firm’s account that can be considered as a receivable by the company that owns the due from account. Due from accounts track assets owed to a company and are not used for the tracking of any liabilities or obligations. In the case of many businesses, due from accounts hold deposits made by customers. 



A due from account can have various names, depending on the type of transaction. For example, it can be called intercompany receivables when money for goods or services is received by a subsidiary and is on its way to being forwarded to the parent company.


  Nostro Account  

In international business, a due from account can be referred to as a nostro account. Nostro, a term derived from the Latin word for "ours," holds deposits made by customers in one country before being transferred to the primary due from account held by the business in their home nation, in their home currency.



Nostro accounts generally hold funds in the currency native to the account's location and not the currency of the business’ home nation or bank. They are frequently used to facilitate foreign exchange and trade transactions.


   Due From Account vs. Due to Account  

While the due from account tracks money owed to the company, the due to account is used to track obligations, such as funds, that are owed to another entity. The due from accounts focus on incoming assets, also known as receivables, while the due to accounts focus on outgoing assets, also called payables. The funds in a due to account are often designated for a particular purpose, such as to fulfill a debt obligation, prior to being transferred into the account.



At no time should either account ever reflect a negative balance, as these accounts track known obligations. If a negative balance occurs, the most likely culprit is incorrectly entered data. Meanwhile, if the account ever reflects a zero balance, this means there are no receivables or payables expected at that time.


   Advantages of a Due From Account  

The primary reason for separating the incoming and outgoing funds is for ease of accounting. This keeps all incoming payments focused in one account and outgoing in another. Each transfer can be marked with its source or destination and helps maintain a simplified paper trail if research is required, say in the event of an audit.



The separation of funds is particularly useful when disbursements are scheduled for payments, transfers to other bank locations, or to a company's subsidiaries. The process of separating receivables and payables also helps in tax charges as movement in and out of due from accounts or due to accounts marks when funds were distributed and therefore the appropriate tax charge required on the funds.
What Is Due to Account?  

A due to account is a liability account typically found inside the general ledger that indicates the amount of funds payable to another party. The funds can be currently due or due at a point in the future. This due to account is usually generated and put on the books as the result of a transaction.



After a business receives goods or services from an outside party, if the party providing the services is not paid right away, the due to account is created and funds are appropriately allocated to it in order to provide the future payment. The due to account is used in conjunction with a due from account to reconcile from which account the money will be coming, and to which it will be going.



The due to account is also called accounts payable.





Key Takeaways

The due to account—also referred to as the accounts payable—is a liability account found in the general ledger that indicates the amount of funds owed to another entity.Businesses use the due to accounts section of the ledger to properly track obligations, such as funds, that are payable to another party.It's important that a company keep close track of their due to accounts to avoid carrying too much debt.


   Understanding Due to Accounts  

The general ledger is the centralized source that contains all of the financial accounts for a company. It contains debit and credit accounts, including the due to account and the due from account. The due to account is also sometimes referred to as an "intercompany payables" account. When a business receives goods or services from an outside party, if those items aren't paid for immediately the business will create a due to account entry on its books to set aside funds to pay the vendor.



If the due to account increases over a prior period, that means the company is buying more goods or services on credit, rather than paying cash. If a company's due to account decreases, it means the company is paying on its prior period debts at a faster rate than it is purchasing new items on credit. It is essential that a company keep proper track of their due to accounts so as to avoid becoming overleveraged.


   Due to Account vs. Due from Account  

The due to account and due from account are essentially opposites. Whereas the due to account tracks the amount of money a business owes to various entities, the due from account is an asset account in the general ledger used to track money owed to a company that is currently being held at another firm. Neither the due from or due to account should ever have a negative balance. If this occurs, it reveals there was an error was made in the accounting process.


   Example of a Due to Account  

Say for example that XYZ Company produces widget presses. One day, their widget press breaks. It turns out there was a defective tuner in one of the crankshafts of the machine. XYZ Company needs to hire a widget press mechanic and also needs to purchase a new tuner for the crankshaft. The tuner arrives with an invoice. The mechanic comes and fixes the machine and says he will send XYZ Company an invoice for his services. XYZ Company would create two due to accounts in its general ledger upon receiving these invoices. Once these invoices were paid, the due to accounts would be canceled.
What Is Due Diligence?  

Due diligence is an investigation, audit, or review performed to confirm facts or details of a matter under consideration. In the financial world, due diligence requires an examination of financial records before entering into a proposed transaction with another party.





Key Takeaways

Due diligence is a systematic way to analyze and mitigate risk from a business or investment decision.An individual investor can conduct due diligence on any stock using readily available public information.The same due diligence strategy will work on many other types of investments.Due diligence involves examining a company's numbers, comparing the numbers over time, and benchmarking them against competitors.Due diligence is applied in many other contexts, for example, conducting a background check on a potential employee or reading product reviews.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding Due Diligence  

Due diligence became common practice (and a common term) in the United States with the passage of the Securities Act of 1933. With that law, securities dealers and brokers became responsible for fully disclosing material information about the instruments they were selling. Failing to disclose this information to potential investors made dealers and brokers liable for criminal prosecution.



The writers of the act recognized that requiring full disclosure left dealers and brokers vulnerable to unfair prosecution for failing to disclose a material fact they did not possess or could not have known at the time of sale. Thus, the act included a legal defense: as long as the dealers and brokers exercised "due diligence" when investigating the companies whose equities they were selling, and fully disclosed the results, they could not be held liable for information that was not discovered during the investigation.



Due diligence is performed by equity research analysts, fund managers, broker-dealers, individual investors, and companies that are considering acquiring other companies. Due diligence by individual investors is voluntary. However, broker-dealers are legally obligated to conduct due diligence on a security before selling it.


   Types of Due Diligence  

Depending on its purpose, due diligence takes different forms.


  Context-Specific Due Diligence  

Commercial due diligence considers a company's market share and competitive positioning, including its future prospects and growth opportunities. This will consider the company's supply chain from vendors to customers, market analysis, sales pipeline, and R&D pipeline. This can also encompass a firm's overall operations, including management, human resources, and IT.Legal due diligence makes sure that a company has all of its legal, regulatory, and compliance eggs in a row. This includes everything from pending litigation to intellectual property rights to being sure the company was properly incorporatedFinancial due diligence audits a company's financial statements and books to make sure that there are no irregularities and that the company is on solid financial footing.Tax due diligence looks at the company's tax exposure, whether it may owe any back taxes, and where it can reduce its tax burden going forward.


  Hard vs. Soft Due Diligence  

Due diligence can be categorized as "hard" or "soft" based on the approach used.



Hard due diligence is concerned with the numbers and data found on the financial statements like the balance sheet and income statement. This can entail fundamental analysis and the use of financial ratios to get a grasp on a company's financial position and make projections into the future. This type of due diligence can also identify red flags or accounting inconsistencies however, Hard due diligence, which is driven by mathematics and legalities, is susceptible to rosy interpretations by eager salespeople. Soft due diligence acts as a counterbalance when the numbers are being manipulated or overemphasized.Soft due diligence is a more qualitative approach that looks at aspects such as the quality of the management, the people within the company, and the loyalty of its customer base. There are indeed many drivers of business success that numbers cannot fully capture, such as employee relationships, corporate culture, and leadership. When M&A deals fail, as an estimated 70%-90% of them do, it is often because the human element is ignored.



We discuss more on how these two types of due diligence are put into practice in the context of M&A deals below.


   How to Perform Due Diligence for Stocks  

Below are 10 steps for individual investors undertaking due diligence. Most are related to stocks, but, in many cases, they can be applied to bonds, real estate, and many other investments.



After those 10 steps, we offer some tips when considering an investment in a startup company.



All of the information you need is readily available in the company's quarterly and annual reports and in the company profiles on financial news and discount brokerage sites.


  Step 1: Analyze the Capitalization of the Company   

A company’s market capitalization, or total value, indicates how volatile the stock price is, how broad its ownership is, and the potential size of the company's target markets.



Large-cap and mega-cap companies tend to have stable revenue streams and a large, diverse investor base, which tends to lead to less volatility. Mid-cap and small-cap companies typically have greater fluctuations in their stock prices and earnings than large corporations.


  Step 2: Revenue, Profit, and Margin Trends  

The company's income statement will list its revenue or its net income or profit. That's the bottom line. It's important to monitor trends over time in a company's revenue, operating expenses, profit margins, and return on equity.



The company's profit margin is calculated by dividing its net income by its revenue. It's best to analyze profit margin over several quarters or years and compare those results to companies within the same industry to gain some perspective.


  Step 3: Competitors and Industries  

Now that you have a feel for how big the company is and how much it earns, it's time to size up the industry in which it operates and its competition. Every company is defined in part by its competition. Due diligence involves comparing the profit margins of a company with two or three of its competitors. For example, questions to ask are: Is the company a leader in its industry or its specific target markets? Is the company's industry growing?



Performing due diligence on several companies in the same industry can give an investor significant insight into how the industry is performing and which companies have the leading edge in that industry.


  Step 4: Valuation Multiples  

Many ratios and financial metrics are used to evaluate companies, but three of the most useful are the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio, the price/earnings to growth (PEGs) ratio, and price-to-sales (P/S) ratio. These ratios are already calculated for you on websites such as Yahoo! Finance.



As you research ratios for a company, compare several of its competitors. You might find yourself becoming more interested in a competitor.



The P/E ratio gives you a general sense of how much expectation is built into the company's stock price. It's a good idea to examine this ratio over a few years to make sure that the current quarter isn't an aberration.
The price-to-book (P/B) ratio, the enterprise multiple, and the price-to-sales (or revenue) ratio measure the valuation of the company in relation to its debt, annual revenues, and balance sheet. Peer comparison is important here because the healthy ranges differ from industry to industry.
The PEG ratio suggests expectations among investors for the company's future earnings growth and how it compares to the current earnings multiple. Stocks with PEG ratios close to one are considered fairly valued under normal market conditions.


  Step 5: Management and Share Ownership  

Is the company still run by its founders, or has the board shuffled in a lot of new faces? Younger companies tend to be founder-led. Research the bios of management to find out their level of expertise and experience. Bio information can be found on the company's website.



Whether founders and executives hold a high proportion of shares and whether they have been selling shares recently is a significant factor in due diligence. High ownership by top managers is a plus, and low ownership is a red flag. Shareholders tend to be best served when those running the company have a vested interest in stock performance.





P/E ratio

The P/E ratio gives a sense of the expectations that investors have for the stock's near-term performance.


  Step 6: Balance Sheet  

The company's consolidated balance sheet will show its assets and liabilities as well as how much cash is available.



Check the company's level of debt and how it compares to others in the industry. Debt is not necessarily a bad thing, depending on the company's business model and industry. But make sure those debts are highly rated by the rating agencies.



Some companies and whole industries, like oil and gas, are very capital intensive while others require few fixed assets and capital investment. Determine the debt-to-equity ratio to see how much positive equity the company has. Typically, the more cash a company generates, the better an investment it's likely to be because the company can meet its debts and still grow.



If the figures for total assets, total liabilities, and stockholders' equity change substantially from one year to the next, try to figure out why. Reading the footnotes that accompany the financial statements and the management's discussion in the quarterly or annual reports can shed light on what's really happening in a company. The firm could be preparing for a new product launch, accumulating retained earnings, or in a state of financial decline.


  Step 7: Stock Price History  

Investors should research both the short-term and long-term price movements of the stock and whether the stock has been volatile or steady. Compare the profits generated historically and determine how it correlates with the price movement.



Keep in mind that past performance does not guarantee future price movements. If you're a retiree looking for dividends, for example, you might not want a volatile stock price. Stocks that are continuously volatile tend to have short-term shareholders, which can add extra risk for certain investors.


  Step 8: Stock Dilution Possibilities  

Investors should know how many shares outstanding the company has and how that number relates to the competition. Is the company planning on issuing more shares? If so, the stock price might take a hit.


  Step 9: Expectations  

Investors should find out what the consensus of Wall Street analysts is for earnings growth, revenue, and profit estimates for the next two to three years. Investors should also look for discussions of long-term trends affecting the industry and company-specific news about partnerships, joint ventures, intellectual property, and new products or services.


  Step 10: Examine Long and Short-Term Risks  

Be sure to understand both the industry-wide risks and company-specific risks. Are there outstanding legal or regulatory matters? Is there unsteady management?



Investors should play devil's advocate at all times, picturing worst-case scenarios and their potential outcomes on the stock. If a new product fails or a competitor brings a new and better product forward, how would this affect the company? How would a jump in interest rates affect the company?



Once you've completed the steps outlined above, you'll have a better sense of the company's performance and how it stacks up to the competition. You will be better informed to make a sound decision.


   Due Diligence Basics for Startup Investments  

When considering investing in a startup, some of the 10 steps above are appropriate while others just aren't possible because the company doesn't have the track record. Here are some startup-specific moves.



Include an exit strategy. Plan a strategy to recover your money should the business fail.
Consider entering into a partnership: Partners split the capital and risk, so they lose less if the business fails.
Figure out the harvest strategy for your investment. Promising businesses may fail due to a change in technology, government policy, or market conditions. Be on the lookout for new trends, technologies, and brands, and get ready to harvest when you find that the business may not thrive with the changes.
Choose a startup with promising products. Since most investments are harvested after five years, it is advisable to invest in products that have an increasing return on investment (ROI) for that period.
In lieu of hard numbers on past performance, look at the growth plan of the business and evaluate whether it appears to be realistic.


   M&A Due Diligence  

In the mergers and acquisitions (M&A) world, a company that is considering a deal will perform a financial analysis on a target company. The due diligence might also include an analysis of future growth. The acquirer may ask questions that address the structuring of the acquisition. The acquirer is also likely to look at the current practices and policies of the target company and perform a shareholder value analysis.



In traditional M&A activity, the acquiring firm deploys risk analysts who perform due diligence by studying costs, benefits, structures, assets, and liabilities. That's known colloquially as hard due diligence.



Increasingly, however, M&A deals are also subject to the study of a company's culture, management, and other human elements via soft due diligence.


  Performing Hard Due Diligence  

In an M&A deal, hard due diligence is the battlefield of lawyers, accountants, and negotiators. Typically, hard due diligence focuses on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), the aging of receivables and payables, cash flow, and capital expenditures.



In sectors such as technology or manufacturing, additional focus is placed on intellectual property and physical capital.



Other examples of hard due diligence activities include:



Reviewing and auditing financial statementsScrutinizing projections for future performanceAnalyzing the consumer marketSeeking operating redundancies that can be eliminatedReviewing potential or ongoing litigationReviewing antitrust considerationsEvaluating subcontractor and other third-party relationships


  Performing Soft Due Diligence  

Conducting soft due diligence is not an exact science. It should focus on how well a targeted workforce will mesh with the acquiring corporation's culture.



Hard and soft due diligence intertwine when it comes to compensation and incentive programs. These programs are not only based on real numbers, making them easy to incorporate into post-acquisition planning, but they can also be discussed with employees and used to gauge cultural impact.



Soft due diligence is concerned with employee motivation, and compensation packages are specifically constructed to boost those motivations. It is not a panacea or a cure-all, but soft due diligence can help the acquiring firm predict whether a compensation program can be implemented to improve the success of a deal.



Soft due diligence can also concern itself with the target company's customers. Even if the target employees accept the cultural and operational shifts from the takeover, the target customers and clients may well resent a change in service, products, or procedures. This is why many M&A analyses now include customer reviews, supplier reviews, and test market data.




What Exactly Is Due Diligence?
Due diligence is a process or effort to collect and analyze information before making a decision. It is a process often used by investors to assess risk. It involves examining a company's numbers, comparing the numbers over time, and benchmarking them against competitors to assess an investment's potential in terms of growth.




What Is the Purpose of Due Diligence?
Due diligence is primarily a way to reduce exposure to risk. The process ensures that a party is aware of all the details of a transaction before they agree to it. For example, a broker-dealer will give an investor the results of a due diligence report so that the investor is fully informed and cannot hold the broker-dealer responsible for any losses.




What Is a Due Diligence Checklist?
A due diligence checklist is an organized way to analyze a company. The checklist will include all the areas to be analyzed, such as ownership and organization, assets and operations, the financial ratios, shareholder value, processes and policies, future growth potential, management, and human resources.




What Is a Due Diligence Example?
Examples of due diligence can be found in many areas of our daily lives. For example, conducting a property inspection before completing a purchase to assess the risk of the investment, an acquiring company that examines a target firm before completing a merger or acquisition, and an employer performing a background check on a potential recruit.


   The Bottom Line  

Due diligence is a process or effort to collect and analyze information before making a decision or conducting a transaction so a party is not held legally liable for any loss or damage. The term applies to many situations but most notably to business transactions. Due diligence is performed by investors who want to minimize risk, broker-dealers who want to ensure that a party to any transaction is fully informed of the details so that the broker-dealer is not held responsible, and companies who are considering acquiring another firm. Fundamentally, doing your due diligence means that you have gathered the necessary facts to make a wise and informed decision.
What Is Dumping?  

Dumping is a term used in the context of international trade. It's when a country or company exports a product at a price that is lower in the foreign importing market than the price in the exporter's domestic market. Because dumping typically involves substantial export volumes of a product, it often endangers the financial viability of the product's manufacturer or producer in the importing nation.





Key Takeaways

Dumping occurs when a country or company exports a product at a price that is lower in the foreign importing market than the price in the exporter's domestic market.The biggest advantage of dumping is the ability to flood a market with product prices that are often considered unfair.Dumping is legal under World Trade Organization (WTO) rules unless the foreign country can reliably show the negative effects the exporting firm has caused its domestic producers.Countries use tariffs and quotas to protect their domestic producers from dumping.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Dumping  

Dumping is considered a form of price discrimination. It occurs when a manufacturer lowers the price of an item entering a foreign market to a level that is less than the price paid by domestic customers in the originating country. The practice is considered intentional with the goal of obtaining a competitive advantage in the importing market.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Dumping  

The primary advantage of trade dumping is the ability to permeate a market with product prices that are often considered unfair. The exporting country may offer the producer a subsidy to counterbalance the losses incurred when the products sell below their manufacturing cost. One of the biggest disadvantages of trade dumping is that subsidies can become too costly over time to be sustainable. Additionally, trade partners who wish to restrict this form of market activity may increase restrictions on the good, which could result in increased export costs to the affected country or limits on the quantity a country will import.


   International Attitude on Dumping  

While the World Trade Organization (WTO) reserves judgment on whether dumping is an unfair competitive practice, most nations are not in favor of dumping. Dumping is legal under WTO rules unless the foreign country can reliably show the negative effects the exporting firm has caused its domestic producers. To counter dumping and protect their domestic industries from predatory pricing, most nations use tariffs and quotas. Dumping is also prohibited when it causes "material retardation" in the establishment of an industry in the domestic market.﻿﻿



The majority of trade agreements include restrictions on trade dumping. Violations of such agreements may be difficult to prove and can be cost-prohibitive to enforce fully. If two countries do not have a trade agreement in place, then there is no specific ban on trade dumping between them.


   Real World Example  

In January 2017, the International Trade Association (ITA) decided that the anti-dumping duty levied on silica fabric products from China the previous year would remain in effect based on the investigation by the Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission that showed that the silica products from China were selling at less than fair value in the United States. The ITA ruling was based on the fact that there was a strong likelihood that dumping would repeat if the tariff was removed.﻿﻿
What Is Dun & Bradstreet (D&B)?  

Dun & Bradstreet is a global company that provides business intelligence products to clients through its database and analytics software. The products are used in improving business profits, marketing, and risk management.



Dun & Bradstreet’s enterprise software is supported by its proprietary analytics tool: DUNSRight® Quality Process. The company’s unique data universal numbering system (DUNS numbers) assigns a DUN number for each client that facilitates easier management of data across its global client base.



Dun & Bradstreet was established as the result of a merger between R.G. Dun & Co. and Bradstreet Co. in the 1930s. The company has had two rounds of funding for a total of $375 million, and it has made several acquisitions and divestitures. Its key segments are information services and internet software and services.





Key Takeaways

Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) is a company providing business intelligence and analytics through proprietary software and a global network.The company’s 2020 revenues were around $1.7 billion.D&B’s proprietary data and analytics products target small business needs, sales and marketing goals, and credit and third party risk assessment concerns.


   Understanding Dun & Bradstreet (D&B)  

Dun & Bradstreet (DNB) is a 180-year-old company that supports companies in the areas of sales, finance, compliance, procurement, and marketing. After launching the revolutionary DUNS numbers, a unique nine-digit identifier for every company that allowed greater data exchange, the company launched its Data Cloud, which gives access to a range of data points about a company, such as its credit score, regulatory filings and business structure, ownership, and principals. Its revenue segments include subscription services, business intelligence reports, data license agreements, partnerships with the public sector, and concierge support services for small businesses.






In 2020, the company stock was relisted under the ticker DNB on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) after having been made private in 2019.


   The History of Dun & Bradstreet  

The formation of Dun & Bradstreet can be linked back to 1841, when Lewis Tappan established the Mercantile Agency in New York City. Tappan handed the reins of the company to Benjamin Douglass in the latter part of the decade. The company was reincorporated under the name R.G. Dun & Co. in 1859 when Robert Graham Dun purchased it. In 1931, the company purchased the National Credit Office and was reorganized, becoming R.G. Dun & Corp.



John Bradstreet formulated and established Bradstreet Co. in Cincinnati in 1849. The firm published the first-ever book of commercial ratings in 1851 and made the use of credit ratings popular. Bradstreet moved his company to New York in 1855.



In 1933, negotiations between the two companies began over the idea of a merger. After one month of discussions, the merger took place. The Wall Street Journal published a notification of the merger and indicated that the newly formed company would be operating under the name R.G. Dun-Bradstreet, changed to Dun & Bradstreet Inc. in 1939. As part of a rebranding campaign, the company officially changed its name to D&B in 2001.



The company has a long record of mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures leading up to its most recent acquisition—of Bisnode, a European data and analytics firm, in January 2021. The deal was a combination of cash and private placement of newly issued DNB common stock. In November 2021, the company announced its plans to acquire Eyeota and NetWise, companies that provide data and audience solutions for digital marketing.



After buying back its outstanding shares in 2019, D&B launched an initial public offering (IPO) on June 24, 2020, relisting on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the ticker DNB. For 2020, its revenues stood at $1.7 billion. The company serves around 420 million businesses globally across 243 countries and regions.


   Data Universal Numbering System  

The data universal numbering system was introduced by the company in 1963 and started as a seven-digit code assigned to companies as a form of classification. In 1964, D&B published a codebook with the individual codes of all the companies that had received them and continued this until 1968. DUNS made an appearance for the first time in the Million Dollar Directory in 1969.



The DUNS system is composed of nine digits and is assigned to every business location in the D&B database. Each of the digits has a unique and distinct operation that identifies each specific business. The number itself is assigned randomly.


   D&B Rating  

D&B Rating is a credit rating tool that has two parts: Common Credit Appraisal, which assesses and rates a company based on several metrics such as payment histories and public records; and Rating Classification, which scores businesses’ net worth based on the strength of their current financial statements.
What Is a Duopoly?  

A duopoly is a situation where two companies together own all, or nearly all, of the market for a given product or service. A duopoly is the most basic form of oligopoly, a market dominated by a small number of companies. A duopoly can have the same impact on the market as a monopoly if the two players collude on prices or output.





Key Takeaways

A duopoly is a form of oligopoly, where only two companies dominate the market.The companies in a duopoly tend to compete against one another, reducing the chance of monopolistic market power.Visa and Mastercard are examples of a duopoly that dominates the payments industry in Europe and the United States.One disadvantage of duopolies is that consumers have little choice in products.Another disadvantage of duopolies is that the two players may collude and increase prices for the consumer.


   Understanding a Duopoly  

In a duopoly, two competing businesses control the majority of the market sector for a particular product or service they provide. A business can be part of a duopoly even if it provides other services that do not fall into the market sector in question. For example, Google and Meta (formerly Facebook) have dominated digital advertising for much of the 21st century, and function as a duopoly in that field. But Google is not associated with a duopoly in its other product sectors, such as computer software.



A duopoly is a form of oligopoly and should not be confused with a monopoly, where only a single producer exists and controls the market. With a duopoly, each company will tend to compete against the other, keeping prices lower and benefiting consumers. However, since there are only two major players in an industry under a duopoly, there is some likelihood that a monopoly could be formed, either through collusion between the two companies or if one goes out of business.






In a duopoly, oligopoly, or monopoly, the parties involved may collude and use their power to inflate prices. Since it results in consumers paying higher prices than they would in a truly competitive market, collusion is illegal under U.S. antitrust law.


  Oligopoly  

A duopoly is a particular type of oligopoly, An oligopoly exists when a few businesses control the vast majority of the market sector. While a duopoly qualifies as an oligopoly, not all oligopolies are duopolies. For example, the automobile industry is an oligopoly because there are a limited number of producers, but more than two, who must respond to worldwide demand.


   Duopoly vs. Duopsony  

A duopoly should not be confused with a duopsony. In a duopoly, two competing businesses control the majority of the market sector for a particular product or service they provide. For example, Coca-Cola and Pepsi represent a duopoly because the two firms control almost the entire market for cola beverages.



A duopsony, however, is an economic condition whereby there are only two large buyers for a specific product or service. The buyers thus have considerable bargaining power and can determine market demand as long as there are plenty of firms vying to sell to them.



Intel Corp. (INTC) and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) are an example of a duopsony. Combined, they command nearly 100% of sales in the computer processing chip market and have substantial influence over their suppliers. Duopsony is also known as a "buyer's duopoly" and is related to oligopsony, a term describing a market where there are a limited number of buyers.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Duopoly  

Duopolies can have both positive and negative effects on the companies in the duopoly and the consumer. First, the two companies can cooperate with each other and maximize their profits as there are no other competitors. In other words, there is a collusive cooperative equilibrium. The companies in a duopoly can concentrate on improving their existing products rather than feeling pressure to create new products for the market. Because the two companies compete with each other, the consumer benefits because prices are controlled to some extent and do not become monopoly prices.



The disadvantages of duopolies are that they limit free trade. With a duopoly, the supply of goods and services lacks diversity, and there are limited options for consumers. Also, it is difficult for other competitors to enter the industry and gain market share. The absence of competitors in a duopoly stifles innovation. With a duopoly, prices may be higher for consumers when the competition is not driving prices down.



Price fixing and collusion can occur in duopolies, which means consumers pay more and have fewer alternatives.





Pros 

The two companies benefit by cooperating to improve profits.
Companies do not have to constantly engage in fruitless competition or worry about disruptors.
Prices may be controlled by the rivalry between the two companies.



Cons 

Free market trading and the entrance of new companies are restricted.
Industry innovation and progress can be curtailed.
Consumers have limited options.
Price fixing and collusion may cost consumers more.





   Examples of Duopoly  

Boeing and Airbus have been considered a duopoly for their command of the large passenger airplane manufacturing market. Similarly, Apple and Samsung dominate the smartphone market. While there are other companies in the business of producing passenger planes and smartphones, the market share is highly concentrated between the two businesses identified in the duopoly.



Visa (V) and Mastercard (MA) are considered a duopoly. The two financial powerhouses own over 80% of all European Union card transactions. This dominance has led the European Central Bank (ECB) to try to find ways to break up the duopoly. So far, the ECB has tried interchange fee caps, but a new scheme that would allow instant payments using national payment cards across European countries could be a game-changer.



A European infrastructure for instant payments would eliminate the need for people to use the global services of Visa or Mastercard. Another suggestion is to allow instant payments at points of interaction or points of sale so that the need for the traditional cards would disappear altogether.


   The Bottom Line  

There are plenty of examples of duopolies in today's markets—Coca-Cola and Pepsi in the soda industry and Apple and Samsung in the smartphone industry are two of them.



Duopolies are a form of oligopoly, and the biggest disadvantage of duopolies, oligopolies, and monopolies is that the companies involved can dominate markets, collude with each other, and raise prices for the consumer.




What Is a Duopoly in Economics?
A duopoly exists when two companies dominate a market for a given product or service. A duopoly can have the same impact on the market as a monopoly if the two players collude on prices or output.




What Are the Types of Duopoly?
The two main types of duopoly: the Cournot duopoly and Bertrand duopoly.The Cournot duopoly model states that the quantity of goods or services produced structures the competition among the two companies in an industry. According to the model, the two companies decide collaboratively to split the market between one another. If one company alters its production levels, the other company must also alter its production to maintain the equilibrium of a 50/50 split of the market.On the other hand, the Bertrand duopoly model states that it is price and not production quantity that structures the competition between the two firms. The model posits that consumers will choose the lower-priced product when given two choices of equal quality. This implies that the two companies in the duopoly will engage in a price war to gain market share.




What Is an Example of a Duopoly?
An example of a duopoly is the dominance that Apple and Samsung have over the smartphone market.




Is Duopoly a Oligopoly?
A duopoly is the most basic form of oligopoly, a market dominated by a small number of companies.
What Is the DuPont Analysis?  

The DuPont analysis is a framework for analyzing fundamental performance popularized by the DuPont Corporation. DuPont analysis is a useful technique used to decompose the different drivers of return on equity (ROE). The decomposition of ROE allows investors to focus on the key metrics of financial performance individually to identify strengths and weaknesses.



There are two versions of the tool—one which accounts for decomposition in three steps while the other does so in five steps.





Key Takeaways

The DuPont analysis is a framework for analyzing fundamental performance originally popularized by the DuPont Corporation.The formula was developed in 1914 by F. Donaldson Brown, an employee of the DuPont Corporation.DuPont analysis is a useful technique used to decompose the different drivers of return on equity.An investor can use analysis tools like this to compare the operational efficiency of two similar firms. Managers can use DuPont analysis to identify strengths or weaknesses that should be addressed.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding the DuPont Analysis  

The DuPont analysis is a formula used to track a company's financial performance. It was developed in 1914 by F. Donaldson Brown, who worked for the DuPont Corporation. His formula incorporates earnings, investment, and working capital together into a single figure that he called return on investment (ROI). It became a standard measure for all DuPont departments and was adopted by other companies.



A DuPont analysis is used to evaluate the component parts of a company's ROE. This allows an investor to determine what financial activities contribute the most to the changes in ROE. An investor can use tools like this to compare the operational efficiency of two similar firms. Managers can use DuPont analysis to identify strengths or weaknesses that should be addressed.



There are three major financial metrics that drive ROE:



Operating efficiency, which is represented by net profit margin or net income divided by total sales or revenue
Asset use efficiency, which is measured by the asset turnover ratio
Financial leverage, a metric that is measured by the equity multiplier, which is equal to average assets divided by average equity


   Formula and Calculation of DuPont Analysis  

The DuPont analysis is an expanded return on equity formula, calculated by multiplying the net profit margin by the asset turnover by the equity multiplier.















DuPont Analysis


=


Net Profit Margin


×


AT


×


EM
















where:
















Net Profit Margin


=



Net Income


Revenue

















AT


=


Asset turnover
















Asset Turnover


=



Sales


Average Total Assets

















EM


=


Equity multiplier
















Equity Multiplier


=



Average Total Assets


Average Shareholders’ Equity








\begin{aligned} &\text{DuPont Analysis} = \text{Net Profit Margin} \times \text{AT} \times \text{EM} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{Net Profit Margin} = \frac{ \text{Net Income} }{ \text{Revenue} } \\ &\text{AT} = \text{Asset turnover} \\ &\text{Asset Turnover} = \frac{ \text{Sales} }{ \text{Average Total Assets} } \\ &\text{EM} = \text{Equity multiplier} \\ &\text{Equity Multiplier} = \frac{ \text{Average Total Assets} }{ \text{Average Shareholders' Equity} } \\ \end{aligned}


​DuPont Analysis=Net Profit Margin×AT×EMwhere:Net Profit Margin=RevenueNet Income​AT=Asset turnoverAsset Turnover=Average Total AssetsSales​EM=Equity multiplierEquity Multiplier=Average Shareholders’ EquityAverage Total Assets​​






The DuPont analysis is also known as the DuPont identity or DuPont model.


   DuPont Analysis Components  

DuPont analysis breaks ROE into its constituent components to determine which of these factors are most responsible for changes in ROE.


  Net Profit Margin  

The net profit margin is the ratio of bottom line profits compared to total revenue or total sales. This is one of the most basic measures of profitability.



One way to think about the net margin is to imagine a store that sells a single product for $1.00. After the costs associated with buying inventory, maintaining a location, paying employees, taxes, interest, and other expenses, the store owner keeps $0.15 in profit from each unit sold. That means the owner's profit margin is 15%, which can be calculated as follows:


















Profit Margin


=



Net Income


Revenue



=




$


0.15




$


1.00




=


15


%







\begin{aligned} &\text{Profit Margin} = \frac{ \text{Net Income} }{ \text{Revenue} } = \frac{ \$0.15 }{ \$1.00 } = 15\% \\ \end{aligned}


​Profit Margin=RevenueNet Income​=$1.00$0.15​=15%​



The profit margin can be improved if costs for the owner were reduced or if prices were raised, which can have a large impact on ROE. This is one of the reasons that a company's stock will experience high levels of volatility when management makes a change to its guidance for future margins, costs, and prices.


  Asset Turnover Ratio  

The asset turnover ratio measures how efficiently a company uses its assets to generate revenue. Imagine a company had $100 of assets, and it made $1,000 of total revenue last year. The assets generated 10 times their value in total revenue, which is the same as the asset turnover ratio and can be calculated as follows:


















Asset Turnover Ratio


=



Revenue


Average Assets



=




$


1


,


000




$


100




=


10







\begin{aligned} &\text{Asset Turnover Ratio} = \frac{ \text{Revenue} }{ \text{Average Assets} } = \frac{ \$1,000 }{ \$100 } = 10 \\ \end{aligned}


​Asset Turnover Ratio=Average AssetsRevenue​=$100$1,000​=10​



A normal asset turnover ratio will vary from one industry group to another. For example, a discount retailer or grocery store will generate a lot of revenue from its assets with a small margin, which will make the asset turnover ratio very large. On the other hand, a utility company owns very expensive fixed assets relative to its revenue, which will result in an asset turnover ratio that is much lower than that of a retail firm.



The ratio can be helpful when comparing two companies that are very similar. Because average assets include components like inventory, changes in this ratio can signal that sales are slowing down or speeding up earlier than they would show up in other financial measures. If a company's asset turnover rises, its ROE improves.


  Financial Leverage  

Financial leverage, or the equity multiplier, is an indirect analysis of a company's use of debt to finance its assets. Assume a company has $1,000 of assets and $250 of owner's equity. The balance sheet equation will tell you that the company also has $750 in debt (assets - liabilities = equity). If the company borrows more to purchase assets, the ratio will continue to rise. The accounts used to calculate financial leverage are both on the balance sheet, so analysts will divide average assets by average equity rather than the balance at the end of the period, as follows:


















Financial Leverage


=



Average Assets


Average Equity



=




$


1


,


000




$


250




=


4







\begin{aligned} &\text{Financial Leverage} = \frac{ \text{Average Assets} }{ \text{Average Equity} } = \frac{ \$1,000 }{ \$250 } = 4 \\ \end{aligned}


​Financial Leverage=Average EquityAverage Assets​=$250$1,000​=4​



Most companies should use debt with equity to fund operations and growth. Not using any leverage could put the company at a disadvantage compared with its peers. However, using too much debt in order to increase the financial leverage ratio—and therefore increase ROE—can create disproportionate risks.



A point to note, though, is that some companies use balance sheet averages when one of the components is an income statement metric. In the case noted above, no averaging is necessary as the equation takes balance sheet/balance sheet figures into account.


   DuPont Analysis vs. Return on Equity (ROE)  

The return on equity metric is net income divided by shareholders’ equity. The DuPont analysis is still the ROE, just an expanded version. The ROE calculation alone reveals how well a company utilizes capital from shareholders.



With a DuPont analysis, investors and analysts can dig into what drives changes in ROE, or why an ROE is considered high or low. That is, a DuPont analysis can help deduce whether its profitability, use of assets, or debt that’s driving ROE.


   Drawbacks of Using DuPont Analysis  

The biggest drawback of the DuPont analysis is that, while expansive, it still relies on accounting equations and data that can be manipulated. Plus, even with its comprehensiveness, the DuPont analysis lacks context as to why the individual ratios are high or low, or even whether they should be considered high or low at all.


   Example of DuPont Analysis  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how the DuPont analysis works. Let's say an investor has been watching two similar companies, SuperCo and Gear Inc. Both of these companies have improved their return on equity compared to the rest of their peer group, which could be a good thing if the two companies make better use of assets or improving profit margins.



In order to decide which company is a better opportunity, the investor decides to use DuPont analysis to determine what each company does to improve its ROE and whether that improvement is sustainable.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



As you can see in the table, SuperCo improved its profit margins by increasing net income and reducing its total assets. SuperCo's changes improved its profit margin and asset turnover. The investor can deduce that SuperCo also reduced some of its debt since average equity remained the same.



Looking closely at Gear, the investor can see that the entire change in ROE was due to an increase in financial leverage. This means the company borrowed more money, which reduced average equity. The investor is concerned because the additional debt didn't change the company's net income, revenue, or profit margin. As such, the leverage may not add any real value to the firm.


  Real-World Example  

Now let's consider Walmart (WMT). For the fiscal year ending Jan. 31, 2022, the company reported:



Net income over the trailing 12 months (TTM) of $13.7 billion
Revenue of $572.8 billion
Assets of $244.9 billion
Shareholders' equity of $83.3 billion



So from these figures, we can use the information above to deduce that the company had the following:



Profit margin of 2.4% or $4.87 billion/$572.8 billionAsset turnover of 2.34 or $572.8 billion/$244.9 billionFinancial leverage (or equity multiplier) is 2.94 or $244.9 billion/$83.3 billion



According to these figures, Walmart's return on equity (ROE) for the fiscal year was 16.5% (or 2.4% x 2.34 x 2.94).




What Does DuPont Analysis Tell You?
DuPont analysis is a useful technique used to decompose the different drivers of return on equity for a business. This allows an investor to determine what financial activities are contributing the most to the changes in ROE. An investor can use an analysis like this to compare the operational efficiency of two similar firms.




What Is the Difference Between 3-Step and 5-Step DuPont Analysis?
There are two versions of DuPont analysis, one utilizing decomposition of ROE via three steps and another utilizing five steps. The three-step equation breaks up ROE into three very important components:ROE=Net IncomeSales×SalesAssets×AssetsShareholders’ Equity\begin{aligned} &\text{ROE} = \frac{ \text{Net Income} }{ \text{Sales} } \times \frac{ \text{Sales} }{ \text{Assets} } \times \frac{ \text{Assets} }{ \text{Shareholders' Equity} } \\ \end{aligned}​ROE=SalesNet Income​×AssetsSales​×Shareholders’ EquityAssets​​The five-step version instead is:ROE=EBTS×SA×AE×(1−TR)where:EBT=Earnings before taxS=SalesA=AssetsE=EquityTR=Tax rate\begin{aligned} &\text{ROE} = \frac{ \text{EBT} }{ \text{S} } \times \frac{ \text{S} }{ \text{A} } \times \frac{ \text{A} }{ \text{E} } \times ( 1 - \text{TR} ) \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{EBT} = \text{Earnings before tax} \\ &\text{S} = \text{Sales} \\ &\text{A} = \text{Assets} \\ &\text{E} = \text{Equity} \\ &\text{TR} = \text{Tax rate} \\ \end{aligned}​ROE=SEBT​×AS​×EA​×(1−TR)where:EBT=Earnings before taxS=SalesA=AssetsE=EquityTR=Tax rate​




Why Is It Called DuPont Analysis?
A DuPont employee by the name of F. Donaldson Brown developed a formula in 1914 that was used by the company as an internal management tool to better understand where its operating efficiency was coming from and where it was falling short. By breaking down ROE into a more complex equation, DuPont analysis shows the causes of shifts in this number.




What Are Some Limitations of Using DuPont analysis?
While the DuPont analysis can be a very helpful tool for managers, analysts, and investors, it is not without its weaknesses. Its expansive nature means that it requires several inputs. As with any calculation, the results are only as good as the accuracy of the inputs.This tool utilizes data from a company's income statement and balance sheet, some of which may not be entirely accurate. Even if the data used for calculations are reliable, there are still additional potential problems, such as the difficulty of determining the relative values of ratios as good or bad compared to industry norms.Seasonal factors, depending on the industry, can also be an important consideration since these factors can distort ratios. For instance, some companies always carry a higher level of inventory at certain times of the year. Different accounting practices between companies can also make accurate comparisons difficult.


   The Bottom Line  

DuPont analysis is a useful tool for evaluating the components that make up a company's ROI calculation. Whether you're an analyst, investor, or manager, you can use DuPont analysis to spot the causes for a shift in ROI, track a company's financial performance, and gather data to make informed decisions. Just keep in mind the limitations of this formula as it relates to the quality of the inputs.
What Are Durable Goods Orders?  

Durable goods orders is a broad-based monthly survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau that measures current industrial activity and is used as an economic indicator by investors.





Key Takeaways

Durable goods orders is a broad-based monthly survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau that measures current industrial activity and is used as an economic indicator by investors.Durable goods orders provide more insight into the supply chain than most indicators and can be especially useful in helping investors understand the earnings in industries such as machinery, technology manufacturing, and transportation.A high durable goods number indicates an economy on the upswing while a low number indicates a downward trajectory.


   Understanding Durable Goods Orders  

Durable goods orders reflect new orders placed with domestic manufacturers for delivery of long-lasting manufactured goods (durable goods) in the near term or future. The change in the total value of new orders is measured and shared with the public in two releases per month: the advance report on durable goods and the manufacturers' shipments, inventories, and orders.



Durable goods are expensive items that last three years or more. As a result, companies purchase them infrequently. Examples include machinery and equipment, such as computer equipment, industrial machinery, and raw steel, as well as more expensive items, such as steam shovels, tanks, and airplanes—commercial planes make up a significant component of durable goods for the U.S. economy. 



If a large order for some of these items comes through one month, it can skew the month-to-month results. For that reason, many analysts will look at durable goods orders, excluding the defense and transportation sectors.


   How Durable Goods Orders Data Is Used  

Durable goods orders are a key economic indicator for investors and others monitoring the health of economies. Because investment prices react to economic growth, it is important for investors to be able to recognize these trends. Orders for durable goods, for example, can provide information on how busy factories may be in the future and whether they'll likely need to employ more or less staff to get through current workloads.



Businesses and consumers generally buy durable goods when they are confident the economy is improving, so an increase in these orders signifies an economy trending upwards. It can also be an indicator of future increases in stock prices. 



Durable goods orders tell investors what to expect from the manufacturing sector, a major component of the economy, and provide more insight into the supply chain than most indicators. This can be especially useful in helping investors understand the earnings in industries such as machinery, technology manufacturing, and transportation.



It's worth bearing in mind that the manufacturing lead time on capital goods takes longer on average, so new orders are often used by investors to gauge the long-term potential for sales and earnings by the companies who make them.






Durable goods orders data can often be volatile and revisions are not uncommon, so investors and analysts typically use several months of averages instead of relying too heavily on the data of a single month.


   Special Considerations  

Given the global scale of manufacturing, trade wars between countries can also lead to businesses and consumers retrenching their spending on new equipment and appliances.



For example, several American manufacturers source raw materials from China or assemble their products there. The imposition of tariffs or even the threat of such a measure can have a psychological effect on businesses and lead to lower spending.


   Example of Durable Goods Orders  

Propelled by tax cuts and a loose monetary policy, the numbers of durable goods orders peaked in December 2007. They then subsequently fell by 38% between December 2007 and March 2009.



This sharp fall in durable goods orders was attributed to the Great Recession that engulfed the American economy. During this period, businesses cut back on investment in new equipment and technologies in response to lower demand from cash-strapped consumers.
What Is Duration?  

Duration can measure how long it takes, in years, for an investor to be repaid a bond’s price by the bond’s total cash flows. Duration can also measure the sensitivity of a bond’s or fixed income portfolio’s price to changes in interest rates.



A bond’s duration is easily confused with its term or time to maturity because certain types of duration measurements are also calculated in years.



However, a bond’s term is a linear measure of the years until repayment of principal is due; it does not change with the interest rate environment. Duration, on the other hand, is nonlinear and accelerates as the time to maturity lessens.





Key Takeaways


Duration measures a bond’s or fixed income portfolio’s price sensitivity to interest rate changes.
Most often, when interest rates rise, the higher a bond’s duration, the more its price will fall.
Time to maturity and a bond’s coupon rate are two factors that can affect a bond’s duration.
Macaulay duration estimates how many years it will take for an investor to be repaid the bond’s price by its total cash flows.
Modified duration measures the price change in a bond given a 1% change in interest rates.
A fixed income portfolio’s duration is computed as the weighted average of individual bond durations held in the portfolio.













Michela Buttignol / Investopedia


   What Is the Purpose of Duration?  

Duration is a measure of the sensitivity of the price of a bond or other debt instrument to a change in interest rates. In general, the higher the duration, the more a bond’s price will drop as interest rates rise (and the greater the interest rate risk). For example, if rates were to rise 1%, a bond or bond fund with a five-year average duration would likely lose approximately 5% of its value.



Certain factors can affect a bond’s duration, including:



Time to maturity: The longer the maturity, the higher the duration, and the greater the interest rate risk. Consider two bonds that each yield 5% and cost $1,000, but have different maturities. A bond that matures faster—say, in one year—would repay its true cost faster than a bond that matures in 10 years. Consequently, the shorter-maturity bond would have a lower duration and less risk.
Coupon rate: A bond’s coupon rate is a key factor in calculation duration. If we have two bonds that are identical with the exception of their coupon rates, the bond with the higher coupon rate will pay back its original costs faster than the bond with a lower yield. The higher the coupon rate, the lower the duration, and the lower the interest rate risk.






   What Are Different Types of Duration?  

The duration of a bond in practice can refer to two different things. The Macaulay duration is the weighted average time until all the bond’s cash flows are paid. By accounting for the present value of future bond payments, the Macaulay duration helps an investor evaluate and compare bonds independent of their term or time to maturity.



The second type of duration is called modified duration. Unlike Macaulay duration, modified duration is not measured in years. Modified duration measures the expected change in a bond’s price to a 1% change in interest rates.



To understand modified duration, keep in mind that bond prices are said to have an inverse relationship with interest rates. Therefore, rising interest rates indicate that bond prices are likely to fall, while declining interest rates indicate that bond prices are likely to rise.


  Macaulay Duration  

Macaulay duration finds the present value of a bond’s future coupon payments and maturity value. Fortunately for investors, this measure is a standard data point in most bond searching and analysis software tools. Because Macaulay duration is a partial function of the time to maturity, the greater the duration, the greater the interest rate risk or reward for bond prices.



Macaulay duration can be calculated manually as follows:


















M


a


c


D


=



∑



f


=


1



n





C



F


f






(


1


+



y


k



)



f




×




t


f




P


V


















where:
















f


=


cash flow number
















C


F


=


cash flow amount
















y


=


yield to maturity
















k


=


compounding periods per year

















t


f



=


time in years until cash flow is received
















P


V


=


present value of all cash flows







\begin{aligned}&MacD=\sum^n_{f=1}\frac{CF_f}{\left(1+\frac{y}{k}\right)^f}\times\frac{t_f}{PV}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&f = \text{cash flow number}\\&CF = \text{cash flow amount}\\&y = \text{yield to maturity}\\&k = \text{compounding periods per year}\\&t_f = \text{time in years until cash flow is received}\\&PV = \text{present value of all cash flows}\end{aligned}


​MacD=f=1∑n​(1+ky​)fCFf​​×PVtf​​where:f=cash flow numberCF=cash flow amounty=yield to maturityk=compounding periods per yeartf​=time in years until cash flow is receivedPV=present value of all cash flows​



The previous formula is divided into two sections. The first part is used to find the present value of all future bond cash flows. The second part finds the weighted average time until those cash flows are paid. When these sections are put together, they tell an investor the weighted average amount of time to receive the bond’s cash flows.


  Macaulay Duration Calculation Example  

Imagine a three-year bond with a face value of $100 that pays a 10% coupon semiannually ($5 every six months) and has a yield to maturity (YTM) of 6%. To find the Macaulay duration, the first step will be to use this information to find the present value of all the future cash flows as shown in the following table:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



This part of the calculation is important to understand. However, it is not necessary if you already know the YTM for the bond and its current price. This is true because, by definition, the current price of a bond is the present value of all its cash flows.



To complete the calculation, an investor needs to take the present value of each cash flow, divide it by the total present value of all the bond’s cash flows and then multiply the result by the time to maturity in years. This calculation is easier to understand in the following table.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The “Total” row of the table tells an investor that this three-year bond has a Macaulay duration of 2.684 years. Traders know that, the longer the duration is, the more sensitive the bond will be to changes in interest rates. If the YTM rises, the value of a bond with 20 years to maturity will fall further than the value of a bond with five years to maturity. How much the bond’s price will change for each 1% the YTM rises or falls is called modified duration.


  Modified Duration  

The modified duration of a bond helps investors understand how much a bond’s price will rise or fall if the YTM rises or falls by 1%. This is an important number if an investor is worried that interest rates will change in the short term. The modified duration of a bond with semiannual coupon payments can be found with the following formula:








M


o


d


D


=



Macaulay Duration



1


+



(




Y


T


M



2



)






ModD=\frac{\text{Macaulay Duration}}{1+\left(\frac{YTM}{2}\right)}


ModD=1+(2YTM​)Macaulay Duration​



Using the numbers from the previous example, you can use the modified duration formula to find how much the bond’s value will change for a 1% shift in interest rates, as shown below:











$


2.61



⏟




M


o


d


D




=



2.684



1


+



(




Y


T


M



2



)






\underbrace{\$2.61}_{ModD}=\frac{2.684}{1+\left(\frac{YTM}{2}\right)}


ModD$2.61​​=1+(2YTM​)2.684​



In this case, if the YTM increases from 6% to 7% because interest rates are rising, the bond’s value should fall by $2.61. Similarly, the bond’s price should rise by $2.61 if the YTM falls from 6% to 5%. Unfortunately, as the YTM changes, the rate of change in the price will also increase or decrease. The acceleration of a bond’s price change as interest rates rise and fall is called convexity.


   How Is Duration Used?  

Investors need to be aware of two main risks that can affect a bond’s investment value: credit risk (default) and interest rate risk (interest rate fluctuations). Duration is used to quantify the potential impact that these factors will have on a bond’s price because both factors will affect a bond’s expected YTM.



For example, if a company begins to struggle and its credit quality declines, investors will require a greater reward or YTM to own the bonds. To raise the YTM of an existing bond, its price must fall. The same factors apply if interest rates are rising and competitive bonds are issued with a higher YTM.






The duration of a zero-coupon bond equals its time to maturity since it pays no coupon.


   What Are Types of Duration Strategies?  

In the financial press, you may have heard investors and analysts discuss long-duration or short-duration strategies, which can be confusing. In a trading and investing context, the term “long” would be used to describe a position where the investor owns the underlying asset or an interest in the asset that will appreciate in value if the price rises. The term “short” is used to describe a position where an investor has borrowed an asset or has an interest in the asset (e.g., derivatives) that will rise in value when the price falls in value.



However, a long-duration strategy describes an investing approach where a bond investor focuses on bonds with a high duration value. In this situation, an investor is likely buying bonds with a long time before maturity and greater exposure to interest rate risks. A long-duration strategy works well when interest rates are falling, which usually happens during recessions.



A short-duration strategy is one where a fixed-income or bond investor is focused on buying bonds with a small duration. This usually means that the investor is focused on bonds with a small amount of time to maturity. A strategy like this would be employed when investors think interest rates will rise or when they are very uncertain about interest rates and want to reduce their risk.




Why is it called duration?
Duration measures a bond price’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates—so why is it called duration? A bond with a longer time to maturity will have a price that is more sensitive to interest rates, and thus a larger duration than a short-term bond.




What are some different types of duration?
A bond’s duration can be interpreted in several ways.Macaulay duration is the weighted average time to receive all the bond’s cash flows and is expressed in years. A bond’s modified duration converts the Macaulay duration into an estimate of how much the bond’s price will rise or fall with a 1% change in the yield to maturity.Dollar duration measures the dollar change in a bond’s value to a change in the market interest rate, providing a straightforward dollar-amount computation given a 1% change in rates.Effective duration is a duration calculation for bonds that have embedded options.




What else does duration tell you?
As a bond’s duration rises, its interest rate risk also rises because the impact of a change in the interest rate environment is larger than it would be for a bond with a smaller duration. Fixed-income traders will use duration, along with convexity, to manage the riskiness of their portfolio and to make adjustments to it.Bond traders also use key rate duration to see how the value of their portfolio would change at a specific maturity point along the entirety of the yield curve. When keeping other maturities constant, the key rate duration is used to measure the sensitivity of price to a 1% change in yield for a specific maturity.
What Is the Durbin Watson Statistic?  

The Durbin Watson (DW) statistic is a test for autocorrelation in the residuals from a statistical model or regression analysis. The Durbin-Watson statistic will always have a value ranging between 0 and 4. A value of 2.0 indicates there is no autocorrelation detected in the sample. Values from 0 to less than 2 point to positive autocorrelation and values from 2 to 4 means negative autocorrelation.



A stock price displaying positive autocorrelation would indicate that the price yesterday has a positive correlation on the price today—so if the stock fell yesterday, it is also likely that it falls today. A security that has a negative autocorrelation, on the other hand, has a negative influence on itself over time—so that if it fell yesterday, there is a greater likelihood it will rise today.





Key Takeaways

The Durbin Watson statistic is a test for autocorrelation in a regression model's output.The DW statistic ranges from zero to four, with a value of 2.0 indicating zero autocorrelation.Values below 2.0 mean there is positive autocorrelation and above 2.0 indicates negative autocorrelation.Autocorrelation can be useful in technical analysis, which is most concerned with the trends of security prices using charting techniques in lieu of a company's financial health or management.


   The Basics of the Durbin Watson Statistic  

Autocorrelation, also known as serial correlation, can be a significant problem in analyzing historical data if one does not know to look out for it. For instance, since stock prices tend not to change too radically from one day to another, the prices from one day to the next could potentially be highly correlated, even though there is little useful information in this observation. In order to avoid autocorrelation issues, the easiest solution in finance is to simply convert a series of historical prices into a series of percentage-price changes from day to day.



Autocorrelation can be useful for technical analysis, which is most concerned with the trends of, and relationships between, security prices using charting techniques in lieu of a company's financial health or management. Technical analysts can use autocorrelation to see how much of an impact past prices for a security have on its future price.



Autocorrelation can show if there is a momentum factor associated with a stock. For example, if you know that a stock historically has a high positive autocorrelation value and you witnessed the stock making solid gains over the past several days, then you might reasonably expect the movements over the upcoming several days (the leading time series) to match those of the lagging time series and to move upward.






The Durbin Watson statistic is named after statisticians James Durbin and Geoffrey Watson.


   Special Considerations  

A rule of thumb is that DW test statistic values in the range of 1.5 to 2.5 are relatively normal. Values outside this range could, however, be a cause for concern. The Durbin–Watson statistic, while displayed by many regression analysis programs, is not applicable in certain situations.



For instance, when lagged dependent variables are included in the explanatory variables, then it is inappropriate to use this test.


   Example of the Durbin Watson Statistic  

The formula for the Durbin Watson statistic is rather complex but involves the residuals from an ordinary least squares (OLS) regression on a set of data. The following example illustrates how to calculate this statistic.



Assume the following (x,y) data points:


















Pair One


=



(


10


,



1


,


100



)

















Pair Two


=



(


20


,



1


,


200



)

















Pair Three


=



(


35


,


985


)

















Pair Four


=



(


40


,


750


)

















Pair Five


=



(


50


,



1


,


215



)

















Pair Six


=



(


45


,



1


,


000



)








\begin{aligned} &\text{Pair One}=\left( {10}, {1,100} \right )\\ &\text{Pair Two}=\left( {20}, {1,200} \right )\\ &\text{Pair Three}=\left( {35}, {985} \right )\\ &\text{Pair Four}=\left( {40}, {750} \right )\\ &\text{Pair Five}=\left( {50}, {1,215} \right )\\ &\text{Pair Six}=\left( {45}, {1,000} \right )\\ \end{aligned}


​Pair One=(10,1,100)Pair Two=(20,1,200)Pair Three=(35,985)Pair Four=(40,750)Pair Five=(50,1,215)Pair Six=(45,1,000)​



Using the methods of a least squares regression to find the "line of best fit," the equation for the best fit line of this data is:








Y


=



−


2.6268



x


+



1


,


129.2




Y={-2.6268}x+{1,129.2}


Y=−2.6268x+1,129.2



This first step in calculating the Durbin Watson statistic is to calculate the expected "y" values using the line of best fit equation. For this data set, the expected "y" values are:


















Expected


Y



(


1


)



=



(


−


2.6268


×


10


)



+



1


,


129.2



=



1


,


102.9

















Expected


Y



(


2


)



=



(


−


2.6268


×


20


)



+



1


,


129.2



=



1


,


076.7

















Expected


Y



(


3


)



=



(


−


2.6268


×


35


)



+



1


,


129.2



=



1


,


037.3

















Expected


Y



(


4


)



=



(


−


2.6268


×


40


)



+



1


,


129.2



=



1


,


024.1

















Expected


Y



(


5


)



=



(


−


2.6268


×


50


)



+



1


,


129.2



=


997.9
















Expected


Y



(


6


)



=



(


−


2.6268


×


45


)



+



1


,


129.2



=



1


,


011








\begin{aligned} &\text{Expected}Y\left({1}\right)=\left( -{2.6268}\times{10} \right )+{1,129.2}={1,102.9}\\ &\text{Expected}Y\left({2}\right)=\left( -{2.6268}\times{20} \right )+{1,129.2}={1,076.7}\\ &\text{Expected}Y\left({3}\right)=\left( -{2.6268}\times{35} \right )+{1,129.2}={1,037.3}\\ &\text{Expected}Y\left({4}\right)=\left( -{2.6268}\times{40} \right )+{1,129.2}={1,024.1}\\ &\text{Expected}Y\left({5}\right)=\left( -{2.6268}\times{50} \right )+{1,129.2}={997.9}\\ &\text{Expected}Y\left({6}\right)=\left( -{2.6268}\times{45} \right )+{1,129.2}={1,011}\\ \end{aligned}


​ExpectedY(1)=(−2.6268×10)+1,129.2=1,102.9ExpectedY(2)=(−2.6268×20)+1,129.2=1,076.7ExpectedY(3)=(−2.6268×35)+1,129.2=1,037.3ExpectedY(4)=(−2.6268×40)+1,129.2=1,024.1ExpectedY(5)=(−2.6268×50)+1,129.2=997.9ExpectedY(6)=(−2.6268×45)+1,129.2=1,011​



Next, the differences of the actual "y" values versus the expected "y" values, the errors, are calculated:


















Error



(


1


)



=



(



1


,


100



−



1


,


102.9



)



=



−


2.9

















Error



(


2


)



=



(



1


,


200



−



1


,


076.7



)



=


123.3
















Error



(


3


)



=



(


985


−



1


,


037.3



)



=



−


52.3

















Error



(


4


)



=



(


750


−



1


,


024.1



)



=



−


274.1

















Error



(


5


)



=



(



1


,


215



−


997.9


)



=


217.1
















Error



(


6


)



=



(



1


,


000



−



1


,


011



)



=



−


11








\begin{aligned} &\text{Error}\left({1}\right)=\left( {1,100}-{1,102.9} \right )={-2.9}\\ &\text{Error}\left({2}\right)=\left( {1,200}-{1,076.7} \right )={123.3}\\ &\text{Error}\left({3}\right)=\left( {985}-{1,037.3} \right )={-52.3}\\ &\text{Error}\left({4}\right)=\left( {750}-{1,024.1} \right )={-274.1}\\ &\text{Error}\left({5}\right)=\left( {1,215}-{997.9} \right )={217.1}\\ &\text{Error}\left({6}\right)=\left( {1,000}-{1,011} \right )={-11}\\ \end{aligned}


​Error(1)=(1,100−1,102.9)=−2.9Error(2)=(1,200−1,076.7)=123.3Error(3)=(985−1,037.3)=−52.3Error(4)=(750−1,024.1)=−274.1Error(5)=(1,215−997.9)=217.1Error(6)=(1,000−1,011)=−11​



Next these errors must be squared and summed:


















Sum of Errors Squared =

















(




−


2.9



2



+



123.3


2



+




−


52.3



2



+




−


274.1



2



+



217.1


2



+




−


11



2



)



=

















140


,


330.81























\begin{aligned} &\text{Sum of Errors Squared =}\\ &\left({-2.9}^{2}+{123.3}^{2}+{-52.3}^{2}+{-274.1}^{2}+{217.1}^{2}+{-11}^{2}\right)= \\ &{140,330.81}\\ &\text{}\\ \end{aligned}


​Sum of Errors Squared =(−2.92+123.32+−52.32+−274.12+217.12+−112)=140,330.81​



Next, the value of the error minus the previous error are calculated and squared:


















Difference



(


1


)



=



(


123.3


−



(



−


2.9



)



)



=


126.2
















Difference



(


2


)



=



(



−


52.3



−


123.3


)



=



−


175.6

















Difference



(


3


)



=



(



−


274.1



−



(



−


52.3



)



)



=



−


221.9

















Difference



(


4


)



=



(


217.1


−



(



−


274.1



)



)



=


491.3
















Difference



(


5


)



=



(



−


11



−


217.1


)



=



−


228.1

















Sum of Differences Square


=



389


,


406.71








\begin{aligned} &\text{Difference}\left({1}\right)=\left( {123.3}-\left({-2.9}\right) \right )={126.2}\\ &\text{Difference}\left({2}\right)=\left( {-52.3}-{123.3} \right )={-175.6}\\ &\text{Difference}\left({3}\right)=\left( {-274.1}-\left({-52.3}\right) \right )={-221.9}\\ &\text{Difference}\left({4}\right)=\left( {217.1}-\left({-274.1}\right) \right )={491.3}\\ &\text{Difference}\left({5}\right)=\left( {-11}-{217.1} \right )={-228.1}\\ &\text{Sum of Differences Square}={389,406.71}\\ \end{aligned}


​Difference(1)=(123.3−(−2.9))=126.2Difference(2)=(−52.3−123.3)=−175.6Difference(3)=(−274.1−(−52.3))=−221.9Difference(4)=(217.1−(−274.1))=491.3Difference(5)=(−11−217.1)=−228.1Sum of Differences Square=389,406.71​



Finally, the Durbin Watson statistic is the quotient of the squared values:








Durbin Watson


=



389


,


406.71



/



140


,


330.81



=


2.77



\text{Durbin Watson}={389,406.71}/{140,330.81}={2.77}


Durbin Watson=389,406.71/140,330.81=2.77



Note: Tenths place may be off due to rounding errors in the squaring
What Is a Dutch Auction?  

A Dutch auction (also called a descending price auction) refers to a type of auction in which an auctioneer starts with a very high price, incrementally lowering the price until someone places a bid. That first bid wins the auction (assuming the price is above the reserve price), avoiding any bidding wars. This contrasts with typical auction markets, where the price starts low and then rises as multiple bidders compete to be the successful buyer.



Financial markets employ a slightly different variant. There, a Dutch auction happens when investors place bids for a security offering, specifying what they are willing to buy in terms of quantity and price. The price of the offering is then determined after taking in all bids to arrive at the highest price at which the total offering can be sold. Dutch auctions can be used to sell Treasury securities, initial price offerings (IPOs), floating-rate debt instruments, and other securities.



The term “Dutch auction” dates to 17th century Holland, when the method was used to improve the efficiency of the competitive Dutch tulip market.





Key Takeaways

In a Dutch auction, the price with the highest number of bidders is selected as the offering price so that the entire amount offered is sold at a single price.This price may not necessarily be the highest price.A Dutch auction may also refer to a market where prices start high and incrementally drop until a bidder accepts the going price.This contrasts with competitive auctions, where the price starts low and move higher.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Understanding Dutch Auctions for Initial Public Offerings (IPOs)  

If a company is using a Dutch auction for an initial public offering (IPO), potential investors enter their bids for the number of shares they want to purchase as well as the price they are willing to pay. For example, an investor may place a bid for 100 stock shares at $100 while another investor offers $95 for 500 shares.



Once all the bids are submitted, the allotted placement is assigned to the bidders from the highest bids down, until all the allotted shares are assigned. However, the price that each bidder pays is based on the lowest price of all the allotted bidders, or essentially the last successful bid. Therefore, even if you bid $100 for your 1,000 shares, if the last successful bid is $80, then you will only have to pay $80 for your 1,000 shares.






IPOs are typically open to favored investors of the underwriting banks. With a Dutch auction, individual investors can participate, helping to democratize the IPO process.


   How the U.S. Treasury Uses Dutch Auctions  

The U.S. Treasury uses a Dutch auction to sell its securities. To help finance the country’s debt, the U.S. Treasury holds regular auctions to sell Treasury bills (T-bills), notes (T-notes), and bonds (T-bonds), collectively known as Treasuries.



Prospective investors submit bids electronically through TreasuryDirect or the Treasury Automated Auction Processing System (TAAPS), which accepts bids up to 30 days in advance of an auction. Suppose the Treasury seeks to raise $9 million in two-year notes with a 5% coupon. Let’s assume the submitted bids are as follows:



$1 million at 4.79%$2.5 million at 4.85%$2 million at 4.96%$1.5 million at 5%$3 million at 5.07%$1 million at 5.1%$5 million at 5.5%



The bids with the lowest yield will be accepted first, since the issuer will prefer to pay lower yields to its bond investors. In this case, since the Treasury is looking to raise $9 million, it will accept the bids with the lowest yield up to 5.07%. At this mark, only $2 million of the $3 million bid will be approved. All bids above the 5.07% yield will be rejected, and bids below will be accepted. In effect, this auction is cleared at 5.07%, and all successful bidders receive the 5.07% yield.






   Lowest-Bidding Dutch Auction  

At a lowest-bidding Dutch auction, prices start high and are dropped successively until a bidder accepts the going price. Once a bid is accepted, the auction ends.



For example, say an auctioneer starts at $2,000 for an item. The bidders watch the price decline until it reaches a price that one of the bidders accepts. No bidder sees the others’ bids until after their own bid is formulated, and the winning bidder is the one with the highest bid. So, if there are no bidders at $2,000, the price is lowered by $100 to $1,900, and the bidding moves lower from there if no one bids at $1,900. If a bidder accepts the item of interest at, say, the $1,500 mark, the auction ends.


   Benefits and Drawbacks of Dutch Auctions  

The use of Dutch auctions for initial public offerings offers benefits as well as drawbacks.


  Benefits  

Democratization of public offerings. The process for conducting a typical IPO is mostly controlled by investment banks. They act as underwriters to the offering and shepherd it through road shows, enabling institutional investors to purchase securities of the issuing company at a discount. They are also responsible for setting the IPO’s price. A Dutch auction allows small investors to take part in the offering.
Increased transparency. Institutional investors take advantage of this difference to rake in profits by purchasing shares at a discount and selling them immediately after the stock is listed. Dutch auction prices are set by a fairer and more transparent method in which an array of bids from multiple types of customers are invited. This practice is meant to ensure that the market arrives at a reasonable estimate of the firm’s value and that the initial “pop” that accompanies the listing of a hot company is muted.


  Drawbacks  

Less price control. Because the auction is open to investors of all stripes, there is a danger that they may perform less rigorous analysis compared to investment bankers and come with a price estimate that may not accurately reflect the company’s prospects.
Potential price volatility. Another drawback of Dutch auctions is known as the winner’s curse. In this, a stock’s price may crash immediately after listing when investors, who had bid a higher price earlier, realize that they may have miscalculated or overbid. Such investors may try to sell the stock to get out of their holding, leading to a crash in the share’s price.


   Example of Dutch Auction  

The most prominent example of a Dutch auction in recent times was Google’s IPO in August 2004. The company opted for this type of offering to prevent a “pop” in its prices on the first day of trading.



While the increase in share prices is a standard phenomenon in stock markets, it had escalated to bubble territory for tech stocks during the internet bubble of 2000. From 1980 to 2001, the pop in first-day trading was 18.8%. That figure jumped to 77% in 1999 and in the first half of 2000.



Google’s initial estimate for its offering was 25.9 million shares in the range of $108 to $135. But the company revised its expectations about a week before the actual offering after analysts questioned the reasoning behind those figures and suggested that Google was overpricing its shares. In the revised estimate, Google offered to sell 19.6 million shares to the public at a price range of $85 to $95.



The response to the offering was considered a disappointment. Although Google was considered a hot company and offering, investors priced its shares at $85, the lower range of its estimates. By the end of the day, the shares were exchanging hands at $100.34, a pop of 17.6% during the first day of trading.



Observers blamed the poor performance on negative press reports about the company leading up to its IPO. A U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) inquiry into its executive share allocation further dampened enthusiasm for Google’s offering. The company was also said to be secretive about its use of raised funds, making it difficult to evaluate its offering, especially for small investors not aware of the emerging market for search engines and organizing information on the web.




What is an initial public offering (IPO)?
An IPO is a company’s first sale of stock available to the public. Often, securities offered in IPOs are from newer, smaller companies seeking outside equity capital and a public market for its stock.




Why is it called a Dutch auction?
The term “Dutch auction” stems from the auction style used in 17th century Holland’s tulip markets. The bulbs were wildly popular, and the marketplace for them had been chaotic. The exchange decided that the best way to sell the tulip bulbs was to do it quickly in as few bids as possible—while still getting the best price possible.




How do you win a Dutch auction?
In a Dutch auction, an item is offered at a set maximum price, which is incrementally lowered until a bid is made. Whoever places the first bid wins the auction, provided the bid is above the auction’s reserve price.


   The Bottom Line  

Dutch auctions can provide an opportunity for individual investors to get involved in the IPO process. Usually, only clients of the underwriting bank have dibs on IPO shares. But with a Dutch auction, anyone can bid, democratizing the process.



Before participating in any IPO, be sure you understand the company and the auction process—and consider your own financial situation and risk tolerance.
What Is Dutch Disease?  

Dutch disease is an economic term for the negative consequences that can arise from a spike in the value of a nation’s currency. It is primarily associated with the new discovery or exploitation of a valuable natural resource and the unexpected repercussions that such a discovery can have on the overall economy of a nation.





Key Takeaways

Dutch disease is a shorthand way of describing the paradox which occurs when good news, such as the discovery of large oil reserves, harms a country's broader economy.It may begin with a large influx of foreign cash to exploit a newfound resource.Symptoms include a rising currency value leading to a drop in exports and a loss of jobs to other countries.


   Understanding Dutch Disease  

Dutch disease exhibits the following two chief economic effects:



It decreases the price competitiveness of exports of the affected country's manufactured goods.
It increases imports.



Both phenomena result from a higher local currency.



In the long run, these factors can contribute to unemployment, as manufacturing jobs move to lower-cost countries. Meanwhile, non-resource-based industries suffer due to the increased wealth generated by resource-based industries.


   Origin of the Term Dutch Disease  

The term Dutch disease was coined by The Economist magazine in 1977 when the publication analyzed a crisis that occurred in The Netherlands after the discovery of vast natural gas deposits in the North Sea in 1959. The newfound wealth and massive exports of oil caused the value of the Dutch guilder to rise sharply, making Dutch exports of all non-oil products less competitive on the world market. Unemployment rose from 1.1% to 5.1%, and capital investment in the country dropped.



Dutch disease became widely used in economic circles as a shorthand way of describing the paradoxical situation in which seemingly good news, such as the discovery of large oil reserves, negatively impacts a country's broader economy.


   Examples of Dutch Disease  

In the 1970s, Dutch Disease hit Great Britain when the price of oil quadrupled, making it economically viable to drill for North Sea Oil off the coast of Scotland. By the late 1970s, Britain had become a net exporter of oil, though it had previously been a net importer. Although the value of the pound skyrocketed, the country fell into recession as British workers demanded higher wages and Britain's other exports became uncompetitive.



In 2014, economists in Canada reported that the influx of foreign capital related to exploitation of the country's oil sands may have led to an overvalued currency and a decreased competitiveness in the manufacturing sector. Simultaneously, the Russian ruble greatly appreciated for similar reasons. In 2016, the price of oil dropped significantly, and both the Canadian dollar and the ruble returned to lower levels, easing the concerns of Dutch disease in both countries.
What Was the Dutch Tulip Bulb Market Bubble?  

The Dutch tulip bulb market bubble, also known as tulipmania, was one of the most famous market bubbles and crashes of all time. It occurred in Holland during the early to mid-1600s, when speculation drove the value of tulip bulbs to extremes. At the market’s peak, the rarest tulip bulbs traded for as much as six times the average person’s annual salary.



Today, the story of tulipmania serves as a parable for the pitfalls that excessive greed and speculation in investing can lead to.





Key Takeaways

The Dutch tulip bulb market bubble was one of the most famous asset bubbles and crashes of all time.At the height of the bubble, tulips sold for approximately 10,000 guilders, equal to the value of a mansion on the Amsterdam Grand Canal.Tulips were introduced to Holland in 1593, with the bubble occurring primarily from 1634 to 1637.Recent scholarship has questioned the true extent of the tulipmania, suggesting it may have been greatly exaggerated as a parable of greed and excess.


   History of the Dutch Tulip Bulb Market’s Bubble  

Tulips first appeared in Europe in the 16th century, arriving via the spice trading routes that lent a sense of exoticism to these imported flowers that looked like no other flower native to the continent. It is no surprise, then, that tulips became a luxury item destined for the gardens of the affluent. According to The Library of Economics and Liberty, “it was deemed a proof of bad taste in any man of fortune to be without a collection of [tulips].”



Following the affluent, the merchant middle classes of Dutch society (which did not exist in such a developed form elsewhere in Europe at the time) sought to emulate their wealthier neighbors and also demanded tulips. Initially, it was a status item that was purchased for the sole reason that it was expensive.



But at the same time, tulips were known to be notoriously fragile, and would die without careful cultivation. In the early 1600s, professional cultivators of tulips began to refine techniques to grow and produce the flowers locally in Holland, establishing a flourishing business sector that has persisted to this day.



According to Smithsonian Magazine, the Dutch learned that tulips could grow from seeds or buds that grew on the mother bulb. A bulb that grew from seed would take seven to 12 years before flowering, but a bulb itself could flower the very next year. So-called broken bulbs were a type of tulip with a striped, multicolored pattern rather than a single solid color that evolved from a mosaic virus strain. This variation was a catalyst for growing demand for rare, “broken bulb” tulips, which ultimately led to the high market price.


   Tulips Sweep Holland  

In 1634, tulipmania swept through Holland. The Library of Economics and Liberty writes, “The rage among the Dutch to possess [tulip bulbs] was so great that the ordinary industry of the country was neglected, and the population, even to its lowest dregs, embarked in the tulip trade.”



A single bulb could be worth as much as 4,000 or even 5,500 florins. Because 1630s florins were gold coins of uncertain weight and quality, it is hard to make an accurate estimation of today’s value in dollars, but Scottish journalist Charles Mackay, in his famous 1841 book Memoirs of Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds, does give us some points of reference: Among other things, 4 tuns of beer cost 32 florins. That’s around 1,008 gallons of beer, or 65 kegs of beer. A keg of Coors Light costs around $120, so 4 tuns of beer ≈ $7,800 and 1 florin ≈ $244. This means that the best of tulips cost upwards of $1 million in today’s money (but with many bulbs trading in the $50,000–$150,000 range). By 1636, the demand for the tulip trade was so large that regular marts for their sale were established on the Stock Exchange of Amsterdam, in Rotterdam, Haarlem, and other towns.



It was at that time that professional traders (stock jobbers) got in on the action, and everybody appeared to be making money simply by possessing some of these rare bulbs. Indeed, it seemed at the time that the price could only go up, that “the passion for tulips would last forever.”



A large part of this rapid decline was driven by the fact that people had purchased bulbs on credit, hoping to repay their loans when they sold their bulbs for a profit. But once prices started to drop, holders were forced to sell their bulbs at any price and to declare bankruptcy in the process.






People began buying tulips with leverage, using margined derivatives contracts to buy more than they could afford. But as quickly as the run-up began, confidence was dashed. By the end of 1637, prices began to fall and never recovered.


   The Bubble Bursts  

By the end of 1637, the bubble had burst. Buyers announced that they could not pay the high price previously agreed upon for bulbs, and the market fell apart. While it was not a devastating occurrence for the nation’s economy, it did undermine social expectations. The event destroyed relationships built on trust and people’s willingness and ability to pay.



According to Smithsonian Magazine, Dutch Calvinists painted an exaggerated scene of economic ruin because they worried that the tulip-driven consumerism boom would lead to societal decay. They insisted that such great wealth was ungodly, and the belief remains to this day.


   Real-World Examples of Extreme Buying  

The obsession with tulips has captured the public’s imagination for generations and has been the subject of several books, including a novel called Tulip Fever by Deborah Moggach. According to popular legend, the tulip craze took hold of all levels of Dutch society in the 1630s. Mackay wrote that “the wealthiest merchants to the poorest chimney sweeps jumped into the tulip fray, buying bulbs at high prices and selling them for even more.”



Tulipmania is a model for the general cycle of a financial bubble:



Investors lose track of rational expectations.Psychological biases lead to a massive upswing in the price of an asset or sector.A positive-feedback cycle continues to inflate prices.Investors realize that they are holding an irrationally priced asset.Prices collapse due to a massive sell-off, and an overwhelming majority go bankrupt.



Similar cycles have been observed in the price of Beanie Babies, baseball cards, non-fungible tokens (NFTs), and shipping stocks.



Dutch speculators at the time spent incredible amounts of money on bulbs that only produced flowers for a week—many companies formed with the sole purpose of trading tulips. However, the trade reached its fever pitch in the late 1630s.



In the 1600s, the Dutch currency was the guilder, which preceded the use of the euro. At the height of the bubble, tulips sold for approximately 10,000 guilders. In the 1630s, a price of 10,000 guilders equated roughly to the value of a mansion on the Amsterdam Grand Canal.


   Did the Dutch Tulipmania Really Exist?  

In 1841, Mackay published his classic analysis, Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds. Among other phenomena, Mackay (who never lived in or even visited Holland) documents several prominent asset-price bubbles—the Mississippi Scheme and the South Sea Bubble, as well as the tulipmania of the 1600s. It is through Mackay’s short chapter on the subject that the event became popularized as the paradigm for an asset bubble.



Because of the timing of tulip cultivation, there was always a few years of lag between demand pressures and supply. Under normal conditions, this wasn’t an issue, as future consumption was contracted for a year or more in advance. But when the 1630s rise in prices occurred so rapidly and after bulbs already were planted for the year, growers would not have had an opportunity to increase production in response to price. Earl Thompson, an economist, has actually determined that because of this sort of production lag and the fact that growers entered into legal contracts to sell their tulips at a later date (similar to futures contracts), which were rigorously enforced by the Dutch government, prices rose for the simple fact that suppliers couldn’t satisfy all the demand. Indeed, actual sales of new tulip bulbs remained at ordinary levels throughout the period.



Using data about the specific payoffs present in the contracts, Thompson argued that “tulip bulb contract prices hewed closely to what a rational economic model would dictate ... Tulip contract prices before, during, and after the ‘tulipmania’ appear to provide a remarkable illustration of ‘market efficiency.’” Indeed, by 1638, tulip production had risen to match the earlier demand, which had already waned by then, creating an oversupply in the market and further depressing prices.






Economist Earl Thompson, who has studied tulipmania, concluded that the “mania” was actually a rational response to demands arising from contractual obligations.



Anne Goldgar, historian at King’s College London, has also written extensively about tulipmania and agrees with Thompson, casting doubt on its “bubbleness.” Goldgar argues that although tulipmania may not have constituted an economic or speculative bubble, it was nonetheless traumatic to the Dutch for other reasons. “Even though the financial crisis affected very few, the shock of tulipmania was considerable,” she writes.



In fact, Goldgar goes on to argue that the “tulip bubble” was not at all a mania (although a few people did pay very high prices for a few very rare bulbs, and a few people did lose a lot of money as well). Instead, the story has been incorporated into the public discourse as a moral lesson: that greed is bad and chasing prices can be dangerous.




What is tulipmania?
Tulipmania is the story of a major commodity bubble, which took place in the 17th century as Dutch investors began to madly purchase tulips, pushing their prices to unprecedented highs.




What does tulipmania have to do with market bubbles?
Tulipmania reflects the general cycle of a bubble, from the irrational biases and group mentalities that push up prices of an asset to an unsustainable level, to the eventual collapse of those inflated prices. The example of tulipmania is now used as a parable for other speculative assets, such as cryptocurrencies or dotcom stocks.




How did tulipmania affect the Dutch economy?
While tulipmania and its ultimate crash didn’t damage the Dutch economy as journalist Charles Mackay wrote, there still was some collateral damage. From court records, historian Anne Goldgar found evidence of reputations lost and relationships broken when buyers who promised to pay 100 or 1,000 guilders for a tulip refused to pay up. The author said those defaults caused a certain level of “cultural shock” in an economy based on trade and extensive credit relationships.




How does tulipmania relate to bitcoin?
The bitcoin market is frequently compared with tulipmania, in that both prompted highly speculative prices for a product with little clear utility. Bitcoin prices tend to crash after significant gains, exhibiting many signs of a classic bubble.


   The Bottom Line  

The Dutch tulipmania of the 1600s is often cited as an example of greed, excess, and financial mania, with the prices of flower bulbs reaching extraordinary heights not backed by fundamentals, but by the fear of missing out and crowd psychology. However, recent analyses question whether the tulipmania was actually the widespread financial crisis that is referenced today in relation to other bubbles like dotcom stocks prior to 2001, the subprime housing market prior to 2008, or the cyrpto market prior to 2022. Indeed, these scholars suggest that the idea of tulipmania has been greatly exaggerated as a parable or lesson in taming greed and excess. The actual extent and severity of the tulip bulb bubble and crash was, in reality, far smaller than we have been led to believe.
What Is a Dynasty Trust?  

A dynasty trust is a long-term trust created to pass wealth from generation to generation without incurring transfer taxes—such as the gift tax, estate tax, or generation-skipping transfer tax (GSTT)—for as long as assets remain in the trust.  



The dynasty trust's defining characteristic is its duration. If properly designed, it can last for many generations.





Key Takeaways

Dynasty trusts allow wealthy individuals to leave money to future generations without incurring estate taxes.Under current law, an individual can put up to $12.06 million ($12.92 million in 2023) in a dynasty trust.Dynasty trusts are irrevocable, and their terms cannot be changed once funded.


   How a Dynasty Trust Works  

Historically, trusts could only last a certain number of years. Many states had a rule against "perpetuities" and stipulated when a trust had to end. A common rule was that a trust could continue for 21 years after the death of the last beneficiary alive when the trust was established.



Under those circumstances, a trust could theoretically last for 100 years or so. Some states, however, have done away with rules against perpetuities, making it possible for wealthy individuals to create dynasty trusts that can endure for many generations into the future.



A dynasty trust is a type of irrevocable trust. Grantors can set strict (or lax) rules for how the money will be managed and distributed to beneficiaries. But once the trust is funded, the grantor will not have any control over the assets or be permitted to amend the trust's terms. The same is true for the trust's future beneficiaries.


   Dynasty Trust Beneficiaries  

The immediate beneficiaries of a dynasty trust are usually the grantor's children (the person whose assets are used to create the trust). After the last child's death, the grantor's grandchildren or great-grandchildren generally become the beneficiaries.



The trust's operation is controlled by a trustee who the grantor appoints. The trustee is typically a bank or other financial institution.






Anyone can be appointed as a trustee, but it is best to appoint an organization with a proven history of managing long-term trusts because a dynasty trust can last for a long time.


   Dynasty Trust Taxes  

Assets that are transferred to a dynasty trust can be subject to gift, estate, and GSTT taxes only when the transfer is made and only if the assets exceed federal tax exemptions. However, income taxes still apply to a dynasty trust if assets produce income. Therefore, individuals often transfer assets to dynasty trusts that don't produce taxable income to minimize the income tax burden, such as non-dividend paying stocks and tax-free municipal bonds.



Additionally, the assets that go into a dynasty trust and any appreciation on those assets are permanently removed from the grantor's taxable estate, providing another layer of tax relief. 



A trustee can distribute money from the trust to support beneficiaries as outlined in the trust terms. But because beneficiaries lack control over the trust's assets, it will not count toward their taxable estates. Similarly, the trust's assets are protected from claims by a beneficiary's creditors because the assets belong to the trust, not the beneficiary.




Is a Dynasty Trust a Good Idea?
Establishing a trust can have benefits and drawbacks depending on your financial situation. If you have significant assets and wish to create a legacy of wealth for your family, a dynasty trust might be a good idea. It's best to talk to an attorney familiar with trusts to see if one works for your circumstances.




What Are the Disadvantages of a Dynasty Trust?
You lose control of all assets within the trust because it becomes irrevocable. Additionally, you cannot change the terms of the trust once it is created.




Who Pays Taxes on a Dynasty Trust?
The grantor is responsible for paying taxes on a dynasty trust. The beneficiaries pay income taxes if they receive income from the trust, and generation-skipping taxes are deferred until the trust terminates and the final beneficiaries receive the remaining assets.




Who Should Consider a Dynasty Trust?
People with significant taxable assets in the estates benefit the most from dynasty trusts. This is because a dynasty trust becomes the asset owner, so the assets are not included in the estate when the grantor passes away.
