What Is R-Squared?  

R-squared (R2) is a statistical measure that represents the proportion of the variance for a dependent variable that’s explained by an independent variable in a regression model.



Whereas correlation explains the strength of the relationship between an independent and a dependent variable, R-squared explains the extent to which the variance of one variable explains the variance of the second variable. So, if the R2 of a model is 0.50, then approximately half of the observed variation can be explained by the model’s inputs.





Key Takeaways

R-squared is a statistical measure that indicates how much of the variation of a dependent variable is explained by an independent variable in a regression model.In investing, R-squared is generally interpreted as the percentage of a fund’s or security’s price movements that can be explained by movements in a benchmark index.An R-squared of 100% means that all movements of a security (or other dependent variable) are completely explained by movements in the index (or whatever independent variable you are interested in).












Xiaojie Liu / Investopedia


   Formula for R-Squared  

















R


2



=


1


−



Unexplained Variation


Total Variation








\begin{aligned} &\text{R}^2 = 1 - \frac{ \text{Unexplained Variation} }{ \text{Total Variation} } \\ \end{aligned}


​R2=1−Total VariationUnexplained Variation​​
The calculation of R-squared requires several steps. This includes taking the data points (observations) of dependent and independent variables and finding the line of best fit, often from a regression model. From there, you would calculate predicted values, subtract actual values, and square the results. This yields a list of errors squared, which is then summed and equals the unexplained variance.
To calculate the total variance, you would subtract the average actual value from each of the actual values, square the results, and sum them. From there, divide the first sum of errors (unexplained variance) by the second sum (total variance), subtract the result from one, and you have the R-squared. 


   What R-Squared Can Tell You  

In investing, R-squared is generally interpreted as the percentage of a fund’s or security’s movements that can be explained by movements in a benchmark index. For example, an R-squared for a fixed-income security vs. a bond index identifies the security’s proportion of price movement that is predictable based on a price movement of the index.



The same can be applied to a stock vs. the S&P 500 Index or any other relevant index. It may also be known as the co-efficient of determination.



R-squared values range from 0 to 1 and are commonly stated as percentages from 0% to 100%. An R-squared of 100% means that all of the movements of a security (or another dependent variable) are completely explained by movements in the index (or whatever independent variable you are interested in).



In investing, a high R-squared, from 85% to 100%, indicates that the stock’s or fund’s performance moves relatively in line with the index. A fund with a low R-squared, at 70% or less, indicates that the fund does not generally follow the movements of the index. A higher R-squared value will indicate a more useful beta figure. For example, if a stock or fund has an R-squared value of close to 100%, but has a beta below 1, it is most likely offering higher risk-adjusted returns.


   R-Squared vs. Adjusted R-Squared  

R-squared only works as intended in a simple linear regression model with one explanatory variable. With a multiple regression made up of several independent variables, the R-squared must be adjusted.



The adjusted R-squared compares the descriptive power of regression models that include diverse numbers of predictors. Every predictor added to a model increases R-squared and never decreases it. Thus, a model with more terms may seem to have a better fit just for the fact that it has more terms, while the adjusted R-squared compensates for the addition of variables; it only increases if the new term enhances the model above what would be obtained by probability and decreases when a predictor enhances the model less than what is predicted by chance.



In an overfitting condition, an incorrectly high value of R-squared is obtained, even when the model actually has a decreased ability to predict. This is not the case with the adjusted R-squared.


   R-Squared vs. Beta  

Beta and R-squared are two related, but different, measures of correlation. Beta is a measure of relative riskiness. A mutual fund with a high R-squared correlates highly with a benchmark. If the beta is also high, it may produce higher returns than the benchmark, particularly in bull markets.



R-squared measures how closely each change in the price of an asset is correlated to a benchmark. Beta measures how large those price changes are relative to a benchmark. Used together, R-squared and beta can give investors a thorough picture of the performance of asset managers. A beta of exactly 1.0 means that the risk (volatility) of the asset is identical to that of its benchmark.



Essentially, R-squared is a statistical analysis technique for the practical use and trustworthiness of betas of securities.


   Limitations of R-Squared  

R-squared will give you an estimate of the relationship between movements of a dependent variable based on an independent variable’s movements. However, it doesn’t tell you whether your chosen model is good or bad, nor will it tell you whether the data and predictions are biased.



A high or low R-squared isn’t necessarily good or bad—it doesn’t convey the reliability of the model or whether you’ve chosen the right regression. You can get a low R-squared for a good model, or a high R-squared for a poorly fitted model, and vice versa.




What is a ‘good’ R-squared value?
What qualifies as a “good” R-squared value will depend on the context. In some fields, such as the social sciences, even a relatively low R-squared value, such as 0.5, could be considered relatively strong. In other fields, the standards for a good R-squared reading can be much higher, such as 0.9 or above. In finance, an R-squared above 0.7 would generally be seen as showing a high level of correlation, whereas a measure below 0.4 would show a low correlation. This is not a hard rule, however, and will depend on the specific analysis.




What does an R-squared value of 0.9 mean?
Essentially, an R-squared value of 0.9 would indicate that 90% of the variance of the dependent variable being studied is explained by the variance of the independent variable. For instance, if a mutual fund has an R-squared value of 0.9 relative to its benchmark, this would indicate that 90% of the variance of the fund is explained by the variance of its benchmark index.




Is a higher R-squared better?
Here again, it depends on the context. Suppose you are searching for an index fund that will track a specific index as closely as possible. In that scenario, you would want the fund’s R-squared value to be as high as possible since its goal is to match—rather than trail—the index. On the other hand, if you are looking for actively managed funds, then a high R-squared value might be seen as a bad sign, indicating that the funds’ managers are not adding sufficient value relative to their benchmarks.


   The Bottom Line  

R-squared can be useful in investing and other contexts, where you are trying to determine the extent to which one or more independent variables affect a dependent variable. However, it has limitations that make it less than perfectly predictive.
What Is Rabbi Trust?  

A rabbi trust is a trust created to support the non-qualified benefit obligations of employers to their employees. A rabbi and his congregation first used this type of trust after an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) private letter ruling approved its use; it has been referred to as a rabbi trust ever since. In essence, it is a non-qualified employee trust created for the benefit of both the employer and employee.


   Understanding Rabbi Trust  

A rabbi trust creates security for employees because the assets within the trust are outside the control of employers; they are typically set up to be irrevocable. In other words, once the employer makes contributions to a rabbi trust, they cannot retrieve them.





Key Takeaways

A rabbi trust is typically used by a company to provide its senior executives with additional benefits to their existing compensation package.A rabbi trust does many things but it doesn't keep creditors at bay.If a company goes under and declares bankruptcy, the funds in a rabbi trust can be used by creditors.



A significant drawback of rabbi trusts is that they don't protect against creditors. If a company becomes insolvent or goes bankrupt, both the beneficiaries and the company’s creditors have access to the trust’s assets. For example, if a rabbi trust has $500,000 worth of stock and cash in it, both the creditors and beneficiaries would go after those assets.


   Rabbi Trust Protection  

A rabbi trust protects employees from a company that is experiencing financial hardship and wants to remove some of the trust’s assets to meet its other obligations. For example, an employer cannot withdraw $50,000 from a rabbi trust to pay employee wages. A rabbi trust’s structure cannot be changed by the employer once it has been established, giving further protection to its beneficiaries.






If a company is taken over, the new company does not have the power to change the trust’s terms. Only the beneficiaries of a rabbi trust have the power to change its details.


   Rabbi Trust Taxation  

A rabbi trust provides tax advantages for employees. Contributions made to the trust do not count as part of the employee’s wages. For example, if an employee receives an annual income of $100,000 and his or her employer makes monthly contributions of $1,000 to the staff member’s rabbi trust, their taxable income is $100,000; they do not have to pay tax on the $12,000 of contribution payments.



Rabbi trusts allow employees’ assets to grow without them having to pay tax on any gains until they withdraw their money. In this sense, a rabbi trust is similar to a qualified retirement plan. A rabbi trust does not provide any tax benefits for companies that make its use limited compared to other types of trusts.
What Is the Race to the Bottom?  

The race to the bottom refers to a competitive situation where a company, state, or nation attempts to undercut the competition's prices by sacrificing quality standards or worker safety (often defying regulation), or reducing labor costs. A race to the bottom can also between governments to attract industry or tax revenues. For example, a jurisdiction may relax regulations or cut taxes and compromise the public good in an attempt to attract investment, such as the building of a new factory or corporate office.



Although there are legitimate ways to compete for business and investment dollars, the term race to the bottom is used to characterize unhinged tit-for-tat competition that has crossed ethical lines and could be destructive for the parties involved.





Key Takeaways

A race to the bottom refers to heightened competition between nations, states, or companies, where product quality or rational economic decisions are sacrificed in order to gain a competitive advantage or reduction in product manufacturing costs.It is most often used within the context of grabbing market share or in labor markets.It refers to efforts by companies to move manufacturing and operations to areas with lower labor costs and fewer worker rights.However, this can result in tit-for-tat competition that spirals out of control.A race to the bottom can often have a negative impact on those competing, often with disastrous consequences.


   Understanding the Race to the Bottom  

Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis is generally credited with coining the term "race to the bottom". In a 1933 judgment for the case Liggett v. Lee, he stated that the competition between states to entice companies to incorporate in their jurisdiction was "one not of diligence but of laxity", meaning states were relaxing rules and regulations instead of refining them to gain an edge over competitors.



The race to the bottom is thus a result of cutthroat competition. When companies engage in the race to the bottom, its impact is felt beyond the immediate participants. Lasting damage can be done to the environment, employees, the community, and the companies’ respective shareholders.



Moreover, consumer expectations of ever lower prices may mean that the eventual victor finds profit margins permanently squeezed. If consumers confront poor quality goods or services as a result of cost-cutting during the race to the bottom, the market for those goods or services could dry up.


   The Race to the Bottom and Labor  

The phrase race to the bottom is often applied in the context of labor and staffing. Many companies go to great lengths to keep wages low to protect profit margins while still offering a competitive product. The retail sector, for example, is often accused of engaging in a race to the bottom and using wage reduction and benefits cuts as easy targets. The sector as a whole resists labor law changes that would increase benefits or wages, which, in turn, would increase costs.



In response to rising wages and demands for benefits, many retail companies have moved the production of goods overseas to regions with lower wages and benefits or have encouraged their suppliers to do so using their purchasing power. The jobs that remain in the domestic market (the in-store functions) may cost more as laws change, but the bulk of labor involved in manufacturing and production can be moved to regions with lower-cost labor.


   The Race to the Bottom in Taxation and Regulation  

In order to attract more business investment dollars, states and national jurisdictions often engage in a race to the bottom by changing their taxation and regulation regimes. The disparity in corporate tax worldwide has seen companies shift their head offices or move operations to obtain a favorable effective tax rate. There is a cost to lost tax dollars because corporate taxes contribute to a country’s infrastructure and social systems. Taxes also support environmental regulations. When a company spoils the environment during production, the public pays in the long run no matter how much of a short-term boost the business activity generated.



In an economically rational world where all externalities are known and considered, a true race to the bottom is not much of a concern. In the real world, however, where politics and money intersect, races to the bottom occur and they are often followed by the creation of a new law or regulation to prevent a repeat occurrence. Of course, over-regulation also has risks and disadvantages to an economy because it deters potential investors from entering a market due to the steep costs and red tape involved in the effort.


   Example of a Race to the Bottom  

While globalization has created a fertile market for the exchange of ideas and trade between countries, it has also resulted in fierce competition between them to attract trade and investment. Large multinational corporations are an especially favored target and the competition is intense among low-income countries hungry for foreign direct investment (FDI).



According to recent research, low-income countries often implement lax labor standards, whether they pertain to wages or safety conditions, to attract manufacturers to their jurisdictions. The Rana Plaza disaster in Bangladesh in 2013 was an example of the perils of this approach. On the back of low wages and cheap costs to set up shop, Bangladesh had become the world's second-biggest garment manufacturing center. The Rana Plaza building in Dhaka was a garment factory that violated several building codes of local laws. But enforcement of those codes was lax, resulting in a collapse that killed 1,000 workers.




How Can a Race to the Bottom Harm the Environment?
A race to the bottom can occur when countries or regions loosen environmental regulations or enforcement of standards in order to attract more businesses and tax revenue. Producers operating in places with more strict regulations would be incentivized to move to those more lax jurisdictions, where they could pollute more freely. Competition between nations, especially in the developing world, can lead to a series of deregulation that leaves the environment unprotected




Where Did the Term "Race to the Bottom" First Appear?
Scholars believe that the term "race to the bottom" first appeared in a 1933 Supreme Court ruling in the case of Liggett vs. Lee. Justice Louise Brandeis, writing his opinion on the case, argued that in order to gain a competitive advantage, firms are incentivized to undercut one another while governments are incentivized to deregulate.




How Does Capitalism Contribute to the Race to the Bottom?
Capitalism is defined by competition between businesses to grab market share, and among workers to fill jobs. Companies must stay profitable, and workers need to stay employed. As a result, firms try to become the low-cost producer so that they can best the competition and grab market share. This means that firms begin to compete primarily on price. However, cutting costs amid fierce competition also can mean cutting corners in the form of lower quality, lower safety standards, and lower wages. At the same time, it can produce negative externalities like pollution, waste, and other social ills.


   The Bottom Line  

A race to the bottom occurs whenever competition becomes so endemic that it leads to negative consequences and externalities. For instance, businesses may cut corners and sacrifice quality in order to maintain low prices and keep market share. Governments may also reduce taxes and reduce regulations and environmental standards in order to attract industry to remain or relocate to their jurisdiction. In the end, tit-for-tat undercutting leads businesses and governments to literally race each other to the bottom of the barrel in a destructive spiral.
What Is Racketeering?  

The term racketeering broadly refers to criminal acts, typically those involving extortion, that involve a "racket". A racket, being some sort of scheme organized to extract illegal profits. It is usually used in reference to patterns of illegal activity specified in the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO). This is a U.S. federal law that makes it illegal to acquire or control a business through certain crimes or income from those crimes. It is also illegal to participate, even indirectly, in certain crimes committed by a business or to conspire to do any of the above under the act.



The list of federal crimes specified in RICO includes bribery, fraud, gambling offenses, money laundering, financial and economic crimes, obstructing justice or a criminal investigation, and murder for hire. At the state level, racketeering can include crimes such as murder, kidnapping, gambling, arson, robbery, bribery, extortion, dealing in obscene matters, and drug crimes, as long as they align with the "generic definition of the state offense referenced at the time RICO was enacted."





Key Takeaways

Racketeering is the act of acquiring a business through illegal activity, operating a business with illegally-derived income, or using a business to commit illegal acts.The U.S. government introduced the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act in October 1970 to contain racketeering.Racketeering can be prosecuted at the state or federal level.Federal crimes of racketeering include bribery, gambling offenses, money laundering, obstructing justice or a criminal investigation, and murder for hire.At the state level, racketeering includes crimes such as murder, kidnapping, gambling, arson, robbery, bribery, extortion, dealing in obscene matters, and drug crimes.


   Understanding Racketeering  

Organized groups may operate illegal businesses, known as rackets. An organized group may also divert funds from a legal business to use for illegal activities. Rackets primarily functioned in obviously illegal industries, such as prostitution, human trafficking, drug trafficking, illegal weapons trade, or counterfeiting.



Racketeering can take many forms including:



Cyber extortion: This occurs when a hacker pushes malware onto someone's computer, blocking all computer and data access. The hacker then demands money to restore access to the user.
Protection rackets:  A criminal entity threatens to cause harm to a business or individual unless they are paid a protection fee.
Kidnapping: This is considered racketeering when an individual is illegally detained and their captors agree to set the kidnapped individual free once a ransom is paid.
Fencing racket: Individuals act as intermediaries to buy stolen goods from thieves at low rates. They resell them for a profit to unsuspecting buyers.
Drug trafficking: illegal drugs are produced, smuggled, and sold to the public.
Illegal gambling activities: such as underground casinos, sports books, or card rooms where the "house" takes a profit.



Labor unions have also been a frequent target of racketeering allegations. Organized crime groups generally use one or more labor unions to extort money from a company or contractor(s). In other cases, groups use unions to control workers. The Italian-American mafia criminal society, La Cosa Nostra, was famous for its control over labor unions. La Cosa Nostra gained such a strong foothold that both company management and the labor union had to rely on the gangsters for protection.



To contain illegal collusion and profiteering through racketeering, the U.S. government introduced the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act in October 1970. The law permits enforcement agencies to charge individuals or groups involved in various acts of racketeering. Individuals guilty of committing RICO crimes may be prosecuted and, if found guilty, can face a 20-year prison sentence or more for serious crimes. Fines and other penalties may also apply.


   Special Considerations  

Corporations may also engage in racketeering. For instance, a drug manufacturer may bribe doctors to overprescribe a medicine, thus committing fraud in order to boost their profits. Predatory lending may also be deemed a form of racketeering. This happens when a lender tricks a borrower into taking a loan that deliberately ignores or actively hinders their ability to repay it.






An official personal loan is always safer than anything a loan shark may offer you even if you have bad credit.



For instance, automobile insurer State Farm was accused of illegally funding Judge Lloyd Karmeier’s 2004 election campaign by channeling money through advocacy groups that didn’t disclose donors. The case relates to long-running litigation by State Farm customers who alleged that they were given generic, substandard car parts instead of original equipment for more than a decade.



The plaintiffs sought damages worth $1 billion, plus $1.8 billion in interest, in addition to the damages that could have been tripled under the federal RICO Act. The total damages sought neared $8.5 billion. In September 2018, State Farm agreed to pay $250 million to settle the racketeering case just before opening statements were set to begin.


   The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act  

The Department of Justice (DOJ) provides an expansive view on RICO charges. According to the DOJ, in order to be found guilty of violating the RICO statute, the government must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that:



An enterprise existed.The enterprise affected commerce across state lines.The individual was associated with or employed by a criminal enterprise.The defendant engaged in racketeering activity.The individual took part in racketeering through the commission of at least two acts of racketeering activity. 



Government prosecutors primarily used the Act to target organized crime and criminal organizations when it was enacted. Before the law was in place, prosecutors were forced to try mob-related racketeering crimes individually, even though a large number of individuals may have been involved in the commission of a crime.



RICO allows law enforcement officials to file cases against an entire racket. The law allows prosecutors to seize the assets of an indicted party, thereby preventing the transfer of funds and property through shell companies.



Providing more tools to law enforcement agencies to combat racketeering, the law allows prosecutors to charge organizations or individuals for up to 20 years of ongoing criminal activity for each count of racketeering. The law also allows prosecutors to charge organization leaders for crimes that they ordered others to commit. Federal and state prosecutors must prove beyond a reasonable doubt the extent of any crimes committed and the involvement of those involved in order to apply them to the RICO Act when charges are filed.






RICO stands for Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations, a law that was passed by the United States government in October 1970.


   How Federal vs. State Racketeering Offenses Differ  

Prosecutors can charge someone through RICO if they commit at least two acts of racketeering activity, one of which occurred after RICO became law and the last of which occurred within 10 years after the prior act.



Federal crimes lead to prosecution at both the federal and the state levels. Investigation of federal crimes involves national agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), Border Patrol, Department of Homeland Security, Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF), and the Secret Service. In some cases, international law enforcement may also participate.



State crimes violate the laws of a particular state and are investigated by local, state, or county police. Kidnapping, robbery, and assault are considered state crimes, provided they occur within the boundaries of a particular state.






Sentences for federal crimes are generally longer and harsher than those imposed for state crimes.


   Examples of Racketeering  

The Department of Justice reported an indictment against 40 people in the largest federal racketeering case in South Carolina in December 2020. According to a press release, charges were filed against gang members who took part in a criminal enterprise. South Carolina Department of Corrections inmates used cell phones obtained as contraband to plan murders, kidnappings, the distribution of firearms, and a global drug ring.



In June 2018, counties in Kansas and Missouri filed federal racketeering cases against more than a dozen opioid painkiller manufacturers. They were accused of misleading marketing and distributing painkillers under deceptive pretenses. The prosecution alleged that the companies misrepresented addiction dangers for the benefit of their own profits.



Officials and corporate executives from FIFA were indicted in 2015 for racketeering conspiracy and corruption charges that involved bribes and kickbacks paid to secure profitable media and marketing rights to international soccer tournaments.



In November 2013, Los Angeles gang leader Kevin Eleby was sentenced to 25 years in federal prison in a RICO case. The gang used violence and intimidation to control a housing project in South Los Angeles. The RICO trial determined that the enterprise engaged in drug dealing, firearms trafficking, murder, witness intimidation, and armed robbery to control and terrorize the housing projects.



Two former Baltimore police officers pleaded guilty to federal racketeering charges in July 2017. Along with several other members of Baltimore's Gun Trace Task Force, they were accused of scheming to steal money, property, and narcotics by way of detaining individuals, entering residences, conducting traffic stops, and swearing out false search warrant affidavits.



In June 2018, Cornel Dawson, the leader of a violent street gang called Black Souls, received multiple life sentences in a racketeering case. Five more gang members received similar sentences. The gang was found guilty of illegally controlling a six-block section of Chicago. The racketeering conviction included four murders committed and involvement in drug deals.




Is Racketeering a Felony?
Racketeering activity covers a range of crimes that involve committing, attempting to commit, conspiring to commit, or intentionally aiding, soliciting, coercing, or intimidating another person to commit a specified list of crimes. Among these, felonies include gambling activities, extortion, drug offenses, weapons offenses, murder, assault, prostitution, hazardous waste violations, securities violations, coercion, money laundering, arson, bribery, and forgery.




Is Racketeering the Same as Money Laundering?
Money laundering involves cleaning "dirty" money so that it appears as if it were earned legitimately when it was not. Money laundering can fall under the umbrella of racketeering if it is part of an organized scheme.




For How Long Can You Go to Jail for Racketeering?
Anyone convicted for RICO crimes receives a prison sentence of 20 years or more if they commit more serious crimes. Fines and penalties may also apply.




Is the RICO Act effective?
The RICO Act is extremely helpful in the fight against racketeering and organized crime. It allows prosecutors to effectively target criminal enterprises and organizations as well as the leaders of these groups even if they had other individuals commit the actual crimes.
What Is a Rally?  

A rally is a period of sustained increases in the prices of stocks, bonds, or related indexes. A rally usually involves rapid or substantial upside moves over a relatively short period of time. This type of price movement can happen during either a bull or a bear market, when it is known as either a bull market rally or a bear market rally, respectively. However, a rally will typically follow a period of flat or declining prices.



A rally may be contrasted with a correction or market crash, which is a rapid or substantial downward move in short-term prices.





Key Takeaways

A rally is a short-term and often sharp upward move in prices.A rally may occur for several reasons and can be found within longer-term bull or bear markets.In general, a rally is cause by positive surprises or economic policies that make asset prices more attracting in the near term.


   Understanding a Rally  

The term “rally” is used loosely when referring to upward swings in markets. The duration of a rally is what varies from one extreme to another, and is relative depending on the time frame used when analyzing markets. A rally to a day trader may be the first 30 minutes of the trading day in which price swings continue to reach new highs, whereas a portfolio manager for a large retirement fund looking at a much larger picture may perceive the last calendar quarter as a rally, even if the previous year was a bear market.



A rally is caused by a significant increase in demand resulting from a large influx of investment capital into the market. This leads to the bidding up of prices. The length or magnitude of a rally depends on the depth of buyers along with the amount of selling pressure they face.



For example, if there is a large pool of buyers but few investors willing to sell, there is likely to be a large rally. If, however, the same large pool of buyers is matched by a similar amount of sellers, the rally is likely to be short and the price movement minimal.



A rally can be confirmed by various technical indicators. Oscillators immediately begin to assume overbought conditions. Trend indicators start shifting to uptrend indications. Price action begins to display higher highs with strong volume and higher lows with weak volume. Price resistance levels are approached and broken through.


   Underlying Causes of Rallies  

The causes of rallies vary. Short-term rallies can result from news stories or events that create a short-term imbalance in supply and demand. Sizeable buying activity in a particular stock or sector by a large fund, or an introduction of a new product by a popular brand, can have a similar effect that results in a short-term rally. For example, almost every time Apple Inc. has launched a new iPhone, its stock has enjoyed a rally over the following months.



Longer term rallies are typically the outcome of events with a longer-term impact such as changes in government tax or fiscal policy, business regulation, or interest rates. Economic data announcements that signal positive changes in business and economic cycles also have a longer lasting impact that may cause shifts in investment capital from one sector to another. For example, a significant lowering of interest rates may cause investors to shift from fixed income instruments to equities. This could create the conditions for a rally in the equities markets.


   Bear Market Rallies  

Market prices can rise even during a longer-term down trend. A sucker rally, for instance, describes a price increase which quickly reverses course to the downside. Sucker rallies often occur during a bear market, where rallies are short-lived. Sucker rallies occur in all markets, and can also be unsupported (based on hype, not substance) rallies which are quickly reversed.



Sucker rallies are easy to identify in hindsight, yet in the moment they are harder to see. As prices fall, more and more investors assume that the next rally will mean the end of the downtrend. Eventually, the downtrend will end (in most cases), but identifying which rally turns into an uptrend, and not a sucker rally, is not always easy.
What Is a Ramp-Up?  

A ramp-up is a significant increase in the level of output of a company's products or services. A ramp-up typically occurs in anticipation of an imminent increase in demand. While it is generally a feature of smaller companies at an early stage of development, a ramp-up can also be undertaken by large companies that are rolling out new products or expanding in new geographies.





Key Takeaways

The term ramp-up refers to when a company substantially increases its output in response to increased demand or an expected increase in the near term.Start-up companies also ramp up once they leave the prototype stage and begin regular production for the market.Larger companies may also ramp up production, when they introduce new products or enter a new market.Ramping up is costly and requires large capital investments in equipment and capacity. If demand does not last or is lower than expected, a firm may be left with excess capacity.Companies may sometimes ramp down, but they will rarely announce that they are ramping down.


   How Ramping Up Works  

Sometimes a company needs to increase its capacity utilization to meet a surge in demand or expected demand in the near term. A ramp-up typically entails substantial outlays of capital expenditures, which are large amounts of spending by a company on physical assets, such as property, buildings, and manufacturing equipment. A ramp-up in spending can also involve funds being used for technology upgrades as well as investments in hiring staff for an expected increase in sales or production.



As a result, a company will usually only consider a ramp-up once it has a reasonable degree of certainty about additional demand. Otherwise, if the anticipated demand does not materialize or is below projected levels, the company will be saddled with excess inventory and surplus capacity.


   Understanding Ramping Up  

The term ramp-up can also be applied to a larger-than-normal increase in expenses. Alluding to the foregoing, if a company states that it will ramp up production of goods, it could also say that it will ramp up the purchase of automation equipment to support the planned capacity expansion.






When a "ramp-up" comes up in press releases or on conference calls, it typically signals management confidence in the future of the business; however, the prudent investor should be on the watch for too much exuberance.


   Ramping Up vs. Ramping Down  

A ramp down refers to a decrease in production, usually due to a predicted fall in demand or business activity. Ramp-downs are common in seasonal industries, where workforce reductions are part of the normal business cycle. In order to process final paychecks and benefits, employers will typically retain a small core of administrative personnel as the company ramps down.



Ramping down may also be an expected consequence of a company that is offshoring or downsizing its production. Even after the company begins terminating its workforce, it will continue trying to extract as much value as possible from the remaining machinery and industrial capital, keeping a small part of the workforce in action.


   Examples of Ramp-Ups  

The term ramp-up tends to roll off the lips of confident executives who expect favorable economic conditions overall leading to brisk demand for their products. Rarely will a company publicly state that it is ramping down.



In a 2021 press release, General Motors outlined plans to increase deliveries to match increased consumer demand in Canada and the United States. According to the release:



GM will return full-size pickup production to Oshawa Assembly in Canada during the fourth quarter of 2021. The new accelerated timeline and incremental volume are expected to make an impact in 2022, as production ramps up.



Another example occurred during an earnings conference call of Saputo Inc., a Canadian manufacturer of milk, dairy products, and dairy alternatives. In the company's third-quarter earnings call of 2021, CEO Lino Anthony Saputo said he was:



Very excited about some of the strategic pillars our teams will be tackling to drive our U.S. business moving forward. These include increasing the value of our ingredients business, ramping up our core portfolio, optimizing our integrated business processes, leveraging ERP to increase efficiencies, optimizing our network and ramping up our dairy alternatives business.



In other words, the CEO appeared to be anticipating increased demand from U.S. consumers, sufficient to justify increasing production and exports to the American market.


   Ramp-Up FAQs  
  What Are Synonyms for Ramp-Up?  

The term "ramp-up" is similar to terms like "scale up" or "step up." Each expression signifies moving to a higher tier of production volume and efficiency.


  Are Ramp-Ups Mostly Used by Small Companies?  

"Ramp up" is a common corporate term in companies seeking to achieve productive growth. It is most commonly used in start-up stage companies that are only beginning to market their products.



As new entrants to the market, these small companies are most likely to be ramping up. However, even large companies may find it necessary to ramp up as they expand to new product lines or new markets.


  What Factors Make a Ramp-Up Successful?  

Ramping up production requires careful planning and market study. In manufacturing, it is necessary to study the process and machinery in order to optimize production for higher scale. The most crucial element of a ramp-up is ensuring sufficient market demand for the product.


  What Is a Ramp-Up in Venture Capital?  

In venture capital financing, ramping up refers to an increase in output prior to the exit of a financial backer. In this context, the venture capitalist waits for an increase in productivity or sales to raise the value of the company before selling their shares.


   The Bottom Line  

A ramp-up is one of several corporate terms used to describe an increase in production or sales by a company seeking to capture a greater market share. Most production costs tend to decrease at high volume thanks to economies of scale. As a result, a well-executed ramp-up allows most companies to reduce their per-unit expenses and increase their profit margins.
What Is a Random Variable?  

A random variable is a variable whose value is unknown or a function that assigns values to each of an experiment's outcomes. Random variables are often designated by letters and can be classified as discrete, which are variables that have specific values, or continuous, which are variables that can have any values within a continuous range.



Random variables are often used in econometric or regression analysis to determine statistical relationships among one another.





Key Takeaways

A random variable is a variable whose value is unknown or a function that assigns values to each of an experiment's outcomes.A random variable can be either discrete (having specific values) or continuous (any value in a continuous range).The use of random variables is most common in probability and statistics, where they are used to quantify outcomes of random occurrences.Risk analysts use random variables to estimate the probability of an adverse event occurring.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding a Random Variable  

In probability and statistics, random variables are used to quantify outcomes of a random occurrence, and therefore, can take on many values. Random variables are required to be measurable and are typically real numbers. For example, the letter X may be designated to represent the sum of the resulting numbers after three dice are rolled. In this case, X could be 3 (1 + 1+ 1), 18 (6 + 6 + 6), or somewhere between 3 and 18, since the highest number of a die is 6 and the lowest number is 1.



A random variable is different from an algebraic variable. The variable in an algebraic equation is an unknown value that can be calculated. The equation 10 + x = 13 shows that we can calculate the specific value for x which is 3. On the other hand, a random variable has a set of values, and any of those values could be the resulting outcome as seen in the example of the dice above.



In the corporate world, random variables can be assigned to properties such as the average price of an asset over a given time period, the return on investment after a specified number of years, the estimated turnover rate at a company within the following six months, etc. Risk analysts assign random variables to risk models when they want to estimate the probability of an adverse event occurring. These variables are presented using tools such as scenario and sensitivity analysis tables which risk managers use to make decisions concerning risk mitigation.


   Types of Random Variables  

A random variable has a probability distribution that represents the likelihood that any of the possible values would occur. Let’s say that the random variable, Z, is the number on the top face of a die when it is rolled once. The possible values for Z will thus be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. The probability of each of these values is 1/6 as they are all equally likely to be the value of Z.



For instance, the probability of getting a 3, or P (Z=3), when a die is thrown is 1/6, and so is the probability of having a 4 or a 2 or any other number on all six faces of a die. Note that the sum of all probabilities is 1.



A random variable can be either discrete or continuous.


  Discrete Random Variables  

Discrete random variables take on a countable number of distinct values. Consider an experiment where a coin is tossed three times. If X represents the number of times that the coin comes up heads, then X is a discrete random variable that can only have the values 0, 1, 2, or 3 (from no heads in three successive coin tosses to all heads). No other value is possible for X.


  Continuous Random Variables  

Continuous random variables can represent any value within a specified range or interval and can take on an infinite number of possible values. An example of a continuous random variable would be an experiment that involves measuring the amount of rainfall in a city over a year or the average height of a random group of 25 people.



Drawing on the latter, if Y represents the random variable for the average height of a random group of 25 people, you will find that the resulting outcome is a continuous figure since height may be 5 ft or 5.01 ft or 5.0001 ft. Clearly, there is an infinite number of possible values for height.


   Example of a Random Variable  

A typical example of a random variable is the outcome of a coin toss. Consider a probability distribution in which the outcomes of a random event are not equally likely to happen. If the random variable Y is the number of heads we get from tossing two coins, then Y could be 0, 1, or 2. This means that we could have no heads, one head, or both heads on a two-coin toss.



However, the two coins land in four different ways: TT, HT, TH, and HH. Therefore, the P(Y=0) = 1/4 since we have one chance of getting no heads (i.e., two tails [TT] when the coins are tossed). Similarly, the probability of getting two heads (HH) is also 1/4. Notice that getting one head has a likelihood of occurring twice: in HT and TH. In this case, P (Y=1) = 2/4 = 1/2.




What Are the 2 Kinds of Random Variables?
Random variables may be categorized as either discrete or continuous. A discrete random variable is a type of random variable that has a countable number of distinct values, such as heads or tails, playing cards, or the sides of a die. A continuous random variable can reflect an infinite number of potential values, such as the average rainfall in a region.




What Is a Mixed Random Variable?
A mixed random variable combines elements of both discrete and continuous random variables.




How Do You Identify a Random Variable?
A random variable is one whose value is unknown a priori, or else is assigned a random value based on some data generating process or mathematical function.




Why Are Random Variables Important?
Random variables produce probability distributions based on experimentation, observation, or some other data-generating process. Random variables, in this way, allow us to understand the world around us based on a sample of data, by knowing the likelihood that a specific value will occur in the real world or at some point in the future.


   The Bottom Line  

Random variables, whether discrete or continuous, are a key concept in statistics and experimentation. Because they are random with unknown exact values, these allow us to understand the probability distribution of those values or the relative likelihood of certain events. As a result, analysts can test hypotheses and make inferences about the natural and social world around us.
What Is Random Walk Theory?  

Random walk theory suggests that changes in asset prices are random. This means that stock prices move unpredictably, so that past prices cannot be used to accurately predict future prices. Random walk theory also implies that the stock market is efficient and reflects all available information.



A random walk challenges the idea that traders can time the market or use technical analysis to identify and profit from patterns or trends in stock prices. Random walk has been criticized by some traders and analysts who believe that stock prices can be predicted using various methods, like technical analysis.





Key Takeaways


Random walk theory states that stock prices are random, so that past movement or trend of a stock price or market cannot be used to predict its future movement.
Random walk theory implies that it’s impossible to beat the market without assuming additional risk.
Random walk theory considers fundamental analysis undependable due to the often-poor quality of information collected and its ability to be misinterpreted.
Random walk theory also suggests that investment advisors add little or no value to an investor’s portfolio.













Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Understanding Random Walk Theory  

Economists had long argued that asset prices were essentially random and unpredictable—and that past price action had little or no influence on future changes. This, indeed, was a key assumption of the efficient market hypothesis (EMH). Random walk theory is based on the idea that stock prices reflect all available information and adjust quickly to new information, making it impossible to act on it.



Economist Burton Malkiel’s theory aligns with the semi-strong efficient hypothesis, which also argues that it is impossible to consistently outperform the market. The theory thus has important implications for investors, suggesting that buying and holding a diversified portfolio may be the best long-term investment strategy.



Random walk theory was popularized by Malkiel in his 1973 book, A Random Walk Down Wall Street. In the book, Malkiel argues that trying to time or beat the market, or using fundamental or technical analysis to predict stock prices, is a waste of time and can lead to underperformance. Instead, he claims that investors are better off buying and holding a broad index fund.



While random walk theory has been met with critics who believe that there are, in fact, ways to predict stock prices and outperform using various techniques, it remains a widely accepted theory in the world of financial economics. By accepting that stock prices are unpredictable and efficient, investors can focus on long-term planning and avoid making rash decisions based on short-term market movements. Ultimately, random walk theory reminds investors of the importance of remaining disciplined, patient, and focused on their long-term investment goals.


   Criticisms of Random Walk Theory  

The main criticism of random walk theory is that it oversimplifies the complexity of financial markets, ignoring the impact of market participants’ behavior and actions on prices and outcomes. Prices can also be influenced by nonrandom factors, such as changes in interest rates or government regulations, or less ethical practices like insider trading and market manipulation.



Market technicians argue that historical patterns and trends can, in fact, provide useful information about future prices, challenging the theory’s assertion that past prices are not informative. They claim that technical analysis can intuit market psychology to identify. Other investors have also challenged the theory by pointing to examples of successful stock pickers, such as Warren Buffett, who have consistently outperformed the market over long periods of time by looking closely at company fundamentals. 



Another critique is that a random walk implicitly assumes that all investors have the same information, when in reality, some investors have access to more and better information than others (such as large, institutional investors). Indeed, information asymmetries have been found in real-world markets that cause markets to be inefficient.



One key critic was Benoit Mandelbrot, a mathematician who argued that stock prices are not random and do not follow a normal distribution, which are key assumptions of random walks. He observed that stock prices exhibit long-term dependence and are better modeled by fractal geometry, where investors should consider the risks associated with extreme black swan events. These ideas were influential in the development of the field of chaos theory in finance.


   Dow Theory: A Nonrandom Walk  

One competing theory to a random walk is known as Dow Theory. Dow Theory is made up of several tenets, which include the idea that stock prices move in trends, that these trends have distinct phases (accumulation, markup, and distribution), and that volume is an important indicator of the strength of a trend. Developed by Charles Dow, the founder of Dow Jones & Co. and The Wall Street Journal in the late 19th century, his theory is based on the idea that stock prices can be analyzed to predict future movements based on current trends.



Dow Theory is generally at odds with random walk theory, which claims that stock prices are unpredictable and that investors cannot consistently outperform the market. Dow Theory does not dispute the fact that stock prices are subject to random fluctuations in the short term, but it argues that long-run prices do reflect underlying economic trends and that these trends can be identified through technical analysis.


   Random Walk Theory in Action  

A historical example of random walk theory in practice occurred in 1988, when The Wall Street Journal sought to test Malkiel’s theory by creating the annual Wall Street Journal Dartboard Contest, pitting professional investors against darts for stock-picking supremacy. Journal staff members played the role of the dart-throwing monkeys.



After more than 140 contests, the Journal presented the results, which showed the experts won 87 of the contests and the dart throwers won 55. However, the experts were only able to beat the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) in 76 contests. Malkiel commented that the experts’ picks benefited from the publicity jump in the price of a stock that tends to occur when stock experts make a recommendation. Passive management proponents contend that, because the experts could only beat the market half the time, investors would be better off investing in a passive fund that charges far lower management fees.




Does random walk theory imply that it’s impossible to make money in stocks?
No. According to random walk theory, it is impossible to consistently outperform the market over the long term through stock picking or market timing. However, it is still possible to profit in the stock market by buying and holding a diversified portfolio of stocks, such as with an index fund.




Does random walk theory apply only to stocks?
No. While it is most commonly applied to the stock market, it can also be applied to other financial markets such as the bond, forex, and commodities markets, among others.




Is random walk theory correct?
Random walk theory is widely debated among financial economists and market practitioners. While some agree with its basic tenets, others have challenged its assumptions and have proposed alternative theories of how and why prices move. Some have pointed out instances where stock prices do not follow a random walk, such as during bubbles or flash crashes. In these cases, prices may be driven more by emotional factors than by randomness.


   The Bottom Line  

Random walk theory claims that stock prices move randomly and are not influenced by their history. Because of this, it is impossible to use past price action or fundamental analysis to predict future trends or price action. If markets are indeed random, then markets are efficient, reflecting all available information.



The theory remains popular among economists; however, it has been criticized by technical and fundamental traders alike for being overly simplistic and discounting real-world outperformance achieved by some traders.
What Is a Range?  

Range refers to the difference between the low and high prices for a security or index over a specific time period. Range defines the difference between the highest and lowest prices traded for a defined period, such as a day, month, or year. The range is marked on charts, for a single trading period, as the high and low points on a candlestick or bar.





Key Takeaways

Range is the difference between the high and low prices in a given trading period.Range-bound trading is characterized by prices staying in a definable range over time.The amount of change in a range, compared to the overall price, depicts the level of volatility that a particular security is experiencing.



Technical analysts closely follow ranges since they are useful in pinpointing entry and exit points for trades. Investors and traders may also refer to a range of several trading periods, as a price range or trading range. Securities that trade within a definable range may be influenced by many market participants attempting to exercise range-bound trading strategies.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019


   Understanding a Trading Range  

A range for an individual trading period is the highest and lowest prices traded within that trading period. For multiple periods, the trading range is measured by the highest and lowest prices over a predetermined time frame. The relative difference between the high and the low, whether on an individual candlestick or over many of them, defines the historical volatility of the prices. The amount of volatility can vary from one asset to another, and from one security to another. Investors prefer lower volatility, so prices becoming significantly more volatile are said to indicate turmoil of some kind in the market.



The range depends on the type of security; and for a stock, the sector in which it operates. For example, the range for fixed-income instruments is much tighter than that for commodities and equities, which are more volatile in price. Even for fixed-income instruments, a Treasury bond or government security typically has a smaller trading range than a junk bond or convertible security.



Many factors affect a security’s price, and hence its range. Macroeconomic factors such as the economic cycle and interest rates have a significant bearing on the price of securities over lengthy time periods. A recession, for instance, can dramatically widen the price range for most equities as they plunge in price.



For example, most technology stocks had wide price ranges between 1998 to 2002, as they soared to lofty levels in the first half of that period and then slumped—many to single-digit prices—in the aftermath of the dotcom bust. Similarly, the 2007-08 financial crisis considerably widened the trading range for equities due to the broad correction that saw most indices plunge over 50% in price. Stock ranges have narrowed significantly since the Great Recession as volatility has reduced during a nine-year bull market.


   Ranges and Volatility  

Since price volatility is equivalent to risk, a security’s trading range is a good indicator of risk. A conservative investor prefers securities with smaller price fluctuations compared to securities that are susceptible to significant gyrations. Such an investor may prefer to invest in more stable sectors like utilities, healthcare, and telecommunications, rather than in more cyclical (or high-beta) sectors like financials, technology, and commodities. Generally speaking, high-beta sectors may have wider ranges than low-beta sectors.


   Range Support and Resistance  

A security's trading range can effectively highlight support and resistance levels. If the bottom of a stock's range has been around $10 on a number of occasions spanning many months or years, then the $10 region would be considered an area of strong support. If the stock breaks below that level (especially on heavy volume), traders interpret it as a bearish signal. Conversely, a breakout above a price that has marked the top of the range on numerous occasions is considered as a breach of resistance and provides a bullish signal.















trading range.
What Is the Ratchet Effect?  

The ratchet effect is an economic process that is difficult to reverse once it is underway or has already occurred. A ratchet is an analogy to a mechanical ratchet, which spins one way but not the other, in an economic process that tends to only work one way. The results or side effects of the process may reinforce the cause by creating or altering incentives and expectations among participants.



A ratchet effect is closely related to the idea of a positive feedback loop. In addition, like releasing a mechanical ratchet used to compress a spring, the reversal of an economic process that involves a ratchet effect may be rapid, forceful, and difficult to control.





Key Takeaways

The ratchet effect is a mechanical analogy in economics that refers to a process that moves easily in one direction but not the other.The ratchet effect is related to the idea of a positive feedback loop, but also may involve a process that can experience a forceful backlash if the process is reversed.Ratchet effects can be seen in many areas of economics and markets, from political economy to consumer and labor markets.


   Understanding the Ratchet Effect  

The ratchet effect in economics refers to escalations in production, prices, or organizational structures that tend to self-perpetuate. This occurs because the process involved also changes the underlying conditions that drive the process itself. In turn, this creates or reinforces the incentives and expectations of the decision-makers involved in such a way that sustain or further escalate the process. This is very similar to a positive feedback loop, which is any pattern that reinforces itself.



The ratchet effect is named after the mechanical device known as a ratchet, which consists of a round gear and pivoting pawl that allows the gear to turn in one direction but not the other in order, for example, to turn a bolt or to compress a spring. In addition to the one-way nature of the process, a ratchet used to compress a spring can result in a build-up of stored energy in the spring that can be suddenly released if the ratchet is disengaged. In machines, this must be carefully controlled to avoid damage to the system by an uncontrolled release of energy.



Similarly, economic processes that involve a ratchet effect may be marked by a build-up of countervailing forces over time that can result in a rapid, and possibly disruptive, reversal of the process if the conditions that produce the ratchet effect are relaxed.


   Applications of the Ratchet Effect  

The ratchet effect can be seen in many areas of economics.


  Political Economy  

The ratchet effect first came up in Alan Peacock and Jack Wiseman's work: The Growth of Public Expenditure in the United Kingdom. Peacock and Wiseman found that public spending increases like a ratchet following periods of crisis.



Similarly, governments have difficulty in rolling back huge bureaucratic organizations created initially for temporary needs, such as during times of armed conflict or economic crisis. This is because the incentives of the bureaucrats who make decisions within government agencies always include their incentive to maintain and improve their positions within the organization and the size and status of the organization itself. They then constitute a concentrated interest group that will seek to lobby policymakers and influence pubic opinion to sustain, expand, and increase the powers of bureaucratic organizations.



This application of the ratchet effect was further explored by historian Robert Higgs, who described how crises and emergencies are used to expand the powers of government agencies, often on an allegedly temporary basis, which then become permanent expansions of government power and intervention into the economy once the crisis has passed.



Economist Sanford Ikeda later described how the reversal of this process is often characterized not by incremental ratcheting, but by dramatic or revolutionary swings toward smaller, less interventionist government that may be accompanied by general turmoil.


  Businesses  

The ratchet effect can also impact business activities and investments due to things such as sunk costs, relationship-specific assets, and path dependencies.



For instance, in the auto industry, competition drives firms to be constantly creating new features for their vehicles. This requires additional investment in new machinery, or a different type of skilled worker, which increases the cost of labor. Once an auto company has made these investments and added these features, it becomes difficult to scale back production. The firm may be unwilling to waste their investment in the physical capital required for the upgrades or the human capital in the form of new workers.



Let's look at another example. If a store whose sales have been stagnant for some time adopts some changes, such as new managerial strategies, staff overhaul, or better incentive programs, and then earns greater revenues than it had previously, the store will find it difficult to justify producing less. Since firms are always seeking growth and greater profit margins, it is hard to scale back production. 



The business version of the ratchet effect can also be similar to that experienced in government bureaucracies, where agents—in this case, managers—have an incentive to support a larger, more complex array of products, services, and infrastructure to support the operations they manage.


  Consumers  

Similar principles apply to the ratchet effect from the consumer perspective because raised expectations escalate the consumption process. If a company has been producing 20 ounces sodas for ten years and then decreases their soda size to 16 ounces, consumers may feel duped, even if there is a commensurate price decrease.


  Labor Markets  

The ratchet effect also applies to wages and wage increases. Laborers will rarely (if ever) accept a decrease in wages, but they may also be dissatisfied with wage increases that they considered insufficient. A manager who receives a 10% pay increase one year and a 5% pay increase the next year may feel that the new raise is insufficient, even though it still represents a pay raise.



In labor markets, the ratchet effect also presents itself in situations where workers, who receive performance pay, choose to restrict their output. They do this because they are anticipating that the company will respond to higher output levels by raising output requirements or cutting pay.



This constitutes a multi-period, principal-agent problem. In this situation, if the workers increase their output, they reveal information about their productivity to the principals, who will then ratchet up their demands for worker output. However, the ratchet effect in labor markets is nearly eliminated when competition is introduced. This is true regardless of whether market conditions favor firms or workers.
What Is a Rate-and-Term Refinance?  

A rate-and-term refinance changes the interest rate, the term—or both the rate and the term—of an existing mortgage without advancing any new money. It is also known as a “no cash-out refinance.”



This differs from a cash-out refinance, in which new money is advanced on the loan and the borrower receives cash at the closing in addition to their new loan. Rate-and-term refinances often carry lower interest rates than cash-out refinances.





Key Takeaways

A rate-and-term refinance alters an existing mortgage's interest rate or without advancing new money.Rate-and-term refinancing activity often occurs in response to a decline in prevailing interest rates, while cash-out refinances are often driven by increasing home values.If your credit has improved substantially, you may be able to refinance at a lower interest rate.


   Understanding Rate-and-Term Refinance  

Rate-and-term refinancing activity is driven primarily by a drop in market interest rates in order to lower monthly mortgage payments. This can be contrasted with cash-out refinance activity that is driven by increasing home values by homeowners seeking to tap into their home equity.



The potential benefits of rate-and-term refinancing include securing a lower interest rate and a more favorable term on the mortgage; the principal balance remains the same. Such refinancing could lower your monthly payments or potentially set a new schedule to pay off the mortgage more quickly. There are several ways to exercise a rate-and-term option.



Because there are advantages and disadvantages associated with both rate-and-term and cash-out refinancing, you must weigh the pros and cons of each before making any final decisions.


   Requirements for Rate-and-Term Refinancing  

For rate-and-term refinancing to work, lower interest rates must be available to the borrower. There are two main reasons why this might not be the case. The first is that interest rates in the overall economy can go up during the application process, making them no longer available. This is one of the many factors influencing interest rates over which borrowers have no control.



However, you do have some control over your consumer credit. If you have defaulted on credit cards or mortgage payments, you will probably face higher interest rates. These personal factors are usually more important than market interest rates. On the other hand, if your credit has improved substantially, you may be able to refinance at a lower interest rate.






Cash-out refinancing increases the principal owed on your mortgage.


   Rate-and-Term Refinancing vs. Other Options  

Cash-out refinancing takes equity from your home for you to use. It works best when the overall value of the property has increased because of rising real estate values. However, cash-out refinancing can also be done if you are well along in the mortgage and have paid in a significant part of its equity. A cash-out refinancing increases the principal owed on your mortgage.



This form of refinancing might call for a re-appraisal of the home to gauge its new value. You might seek such refinancing to gain access to capital from the value of the house, money you otherwise might not see until the home was sold. A converse option called “cash-in refinancing” involves putting more money toward the settlement of the mortgage to reduce any remaining principal.



When considering any of these options, it is important to calculate all the implications carefully and see how they compare to keeping your current mortgage.


   Examples of Rate-and-Term Refinancing  

Say you have been paying off a 30-year mortgage for 10 years and interest rates suddenly drop; you might want to take advantage of the new rates. One option would be to refinance the balance left on the original mortgage at that lower rate for a new 30-year full term. The new loan would have lower monthly payments, but it would be like starting over at a lower rate. It would add 10 years to the total time to pay off the mortgage. There were 10 years spent paying the first mortgage, and there would be another 30 years for the new one, which would equal 40 years in total. Between the lower interest rates and the longer term, monthly payments would be much lower.



You could also use the rate-and-term refinancing option to pay the new interest rate and negotiate a 15-year mortgage. Your monthly payments would be twice as high as for a 30-year term, all other things being equal. However, because interest rates fell, your monthly payments may end up being lower than they were for the remaining 20 years of the original mortgage.



It’s more likely, though, that your monthly payments would still be higher because of the shorter term. The main advantage is that you would save five years of payments. There were 10 years spent paying the original mortgage, and there would be 15 years for the new one, which would equal 25 years in total.






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
What Is Rate of Change (ROC)?  

The rate of change (ROC) is the speed at which a variable changes over a specific period of time. ROC is often used when speaking about momentum, and it can generally be expressed as a ratio between a change in one variable relative to a corresponding change in another; graphically, the rate of change is represented by the slope of a line. The ROC is often illustrated by the Greek letter delta (Δ).





Key Takeaways

Rate of change (ROC) refers to how quickly something changes over time.It is thus the acceleration or deceleration of changes (i.e., the rate) and not the magnitude of individual changes themselves.In finance, rate of change is used to understand price returns and identify momentum in trends.Moving averages are used by traders to understand the rates of change in asset prices by smoothing them out.The Price Rate of Change indicator is a technical tool that measures the percentage change in price between the current price and the price a certain number of periods ago. 


   Understanding Rate of Change (ROC)  

Rate of change is used to mathematically describe the percentage change in value over a defined period of time, and it represents the momentum of a variable.



In general, the formula for rate of change is:



R = (D2 - D1)/T



where:



R = rate of changeD = distance (or some other variable) measured at the beginning and end of the periodT = the time it took for that change to occur



In finance, the calculation for ROC can also be computed as a return over time, in that it can takes the current value of a stock or index and divides it by the value from an earlier period. Subtract one and multiply the resulting number by 100 to give it a percentage representation.








R


O


C


=


(



current value


previous value



−


1


)


∗


100



ROC = (\frac{\text{current value}}{\text{previous value}} - 1)*100


ROC=(previous valuecurrent value​−1)∗100


   The Importance of Measuring Rate of Change  

Rate of change is an extremely important financial concept because it allows investors to spot security momentum and other trends. For example, a security with high momentum, or one that has a positive ROC, normally outperforms the market in the short term. Conversely, a security that has a ROC that falls below its moving average, or one that has a low or negative ROC is likely to decline in value and can be seen as a sell signal to investors.



Rate of change is also a good indicator of market bubbles. Even though momentum is good and traders look for securities with a positive ROC, if a broad-market ETF, index, or mutual fund has a sharp increase in its ROC in the short term, it may be a sign that the market is unsustainable. If the ROC of an index or other broad-market security is over 50%, investors should be wary of a bubble.



This is important because many traders pay close attention to the speed at which one price changes relative to another. For example, options traders study the relationship between the rate of change in the price of an option relative to a small change in the price of the underlying asset, known as an option's delta.






Options traders use rate of change in various risk metrics, known as the "Greeks." The Gamma, for example, is the rate of change of the delta (where the delta is how the option's price changes with movements in the underlying).


   The Price Rate of Change Indicator  

The rate of change is most often used to measure the change in a security's price over time. This is also known as the price rate of change (also abbreviated ROC). The price rate of change can be derived by taking the price of a security at time B minus the price of the same security at time A and dividing that result by the price at time A.


















Price ROC


=




B


−


A



A



×


100
















where:
















B


=


price at current time
















A


=


price at previous time







\begin{aligned} &\text{Price ROC} = \frac{B - A}{A} \times 100 \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &B=\text{price at current time}\\ &A=\text{price at previous time}\\ \end{aligned}


​Price ROC=AB−A​×100where:B=price at current timeA=price at previous time​



The indicator is an unbounded momentum indicator used in technical analysis set against a zero-level midpoint. When it is positive, prices are accelerating upward; when negative, downward.




What Are Other Terms for Rate of Change?
Rate of change may go by other terms depending on the context. With respect to speed or velocity, for instance, acceleration/deceleration is the rate of change. In statistics and regression modeling, the rate of change is defined by the slope of the line of best fit. For populations, it is the growth rate. In financial markets, rate of change is often referred to as momentum.




How Do You Solve Rate of Change Problems?
Rate of change problems can generally be approached using the formula R = D/T, or rate of change equals the distance traveled divided by the time it takes to do so. Depending on the context involved in the problem, "distance" can be replaced with something else, like change in value or price.




How Do Traders Use the Price Rate of Change Indicator?
The price rate of change (ROC) indicator is used in technical analysis to measure momentum. A positive ROC can confirm a bullish trend while a negative ROC indicates a bearish one. When the price is consolidating, the ROC will hover near zero.


   The Bottom Line  

Rate of change (ROC) is an important concept that tells us not just that things are changing, but how fast things are changing.
What Is a Rate of Return (RoR)?  

A rate of return (RoR) is the net gain or loss of an investment over a specified time period, expressed as a percentage of the investment’s initial cost. When calculating the rate of return, you are determining the percentage change from the beginning of the period until the end.





Key Takeaways

The rate of return (RoR) is used to measure the profit or loss of an investment over time.The metric of RoR can be used on a variety of assets, from stocks to bonds, real estate, and art.The effects of inflation are not taken into consideration in the simple rate of return calculation but are in the real rate of return calculation.The internal rate of return (IRR) takes into consideration the time value of money.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding a Rate of Return (RoR)  

A rate of return (RoR) can be applied to any investment vehicle, from real estate to bonds, stocks, and fine art. The RoR works with any asset provided the asset is purchased at one point in time and produces cash flow at some point in the future. Investments are assessed based, in part, on past rates of return, which can be compared against assets of the same type to determine which investments are the most attractive. Many investors like to pick a required rate of return before making an investment choice.


   The Formula for RoR  

The formula to calculate the rate of return (RoR) is:





Rate of return


=


[




(


Current value


−


Initial value


)



Initial value



]


×


100



\text{Rate of return} = [\frac{(\text{Current value} - \text{Initial value})}{\text{Initial value}}]\times 100


Rate of return=[Initial value(Current value−Initial value)​]×100
This simple rate of return is sometimes called the basic growth rate, or alternatively, return on investment (ROI). If you also consider the effect of the time value of money and inflation, the real rate of return can also be defined as the net amount of discounted cash flows (DCF) received on an investment after adjusting for inflation.


   RoR on Stocks and Bonds  

The rate of return calculations for stocks and bonds is slightly different. Assume an investor buys a stock for $60 a share, owns the stock for five years, and earns a total amount of $10 in dividends. If the investor sells the stock for $80, his per-share gain is $80 - $60 = $20. In addition, he has earned $10 in dividend income for a total gain of $20 + $10 = $30. The rate of return for the stock is thus a $30 gain per share, divided by the $60 cost per share, or 50%.



On the other hand, consider an investor that pays $1,000 for a $1,000 par value 5% coupon bond. The investment earns $50 in interest income per year. If the investor sells the bond for $1,100 in premium value and earns $100 in total interest, the investor’s rate of return is the $100 gain on the sale, plus $100 interest income divided by the $1,000 initial cost, or 20%.


   Real Rate of Return vs. Nominal Rate of Return  

The simple rate of return is considered a nominal rate of return since it does not account for the effect of inflation over time. Inflation reduces the purchasing power of money, and so $335,000 six years from now is not the same as $335,000 today.



Discounting is one way to account for the time value of money. Once the effect of inflation is taken into account, we call that the real rate of return (or the inflation-adjusted rate of return).


   Real Rate of Return vs. Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)  

A closely related concept to the simple rate of return is the compound annual growth rate (CAGR). The CAGR is the mean annual rate of return of an investment over a specified period of time longer than one year, which means the calculation must factor in growth over multiple periods.



To calculate compound annual growth rate, we divide the value of an investment at the end of the period in question by its value at the beginning of that period; raise the result to the power of one divided by the number of holding periods, such as years; and subtract one from the subsequent result.


   Example of RoR  

The rate of return can be calculated for any investment, dealing with any kind of asset. Let's take the example of purchasing a home as a basic example for understanding how to calculate the RoR. Say that you buy a house for $250,000 (for simplicity let's assume you pay 100% cash).



Six years later, you decide to sell the house—maybe your family is growing and you need to move into a larger place. You are able to sell the house for $335,000, after deducting any realtor's fees and taxes. The simple rate of return on the purchase and sale of the house is as follows:



﻿






(


3


3


5


,


0


0


0


−


2


5


0


,


0


0


0


)




2


5


0


,


0


0


0




×


1


0


0


=


3


4


%



\frac{(335,000-250,000)}{250,000} \times 100 = 34\%


250,000(335,000−250,000)​×100=34%﻿



Now, what if, instead, you sold the house for less than you paid for it—say, for $187,500? The same equation can be used to calculate your loss, or the negative rate of return, on the transaction: 



﻿






(


1


8


7


,


5


0


0


−


2


5


0


,


0


0


0


)




2


5


0


,


0


0


0




×


1


0


0


=


−


2


5


%



\frac{(187,500 - 250,000)}{250,000} \times 100 = -25\%


250,000(187,500−250,000)​×100=−25%﻿


   Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and Discounted Cash Flow (DCF)  

The next step in understanding RoR over time is to account for the time value of money (TVM), which the CAGR ignores. Discounted cash flows take the earnings of an investment and discount each of the cash flows based on a discount rate. The discount rate represents a minimum rate of return acceptable to the investor, or an assumed rate of inflation. In addition to investors, businesses use discounted cash flows to assess the profitability of their investments.
Assume, for example, a company is considering the purchase of a new piece of equipment for $10,000, and the firm uses a discount rate of 5%. After a $10,000 cash outflow, the equipment is used in the operations of the business and increases cash inflows by $2,000 a year for five years. The business applies present value table factors to the $10,000 outflow and to the $2,000 inflow each year for five years.
The $2,000 inflow in year five would be discounted using the discount rate at 5% for five years. If the sum of all the adjusted cash inflows and outflows is greater than zero, the investment is profitable. A positive net cash inflow also means that the rate of return is higher than the 5% discount rate.
The rate of return using discounted cash flows is also known as the internal rate of return (IRR). The internal rate of return is a discount rate that makes the net present value (NPV) of all cash flows from a particular project or investment equal to zero. IRR calculations rely on the same formula as NPV does and utilizes the time value of money (using interest rates). The formula for IRR is as follows:















I


R


R


=


N


P


V


=



∑



t


=


1



T





C


t




(


1


+


r



)


t





−



C


0



=


0
















where:
















T


=


total number of time periods
















t


=


time period

















C


t



=


net cash inflow-outflows during a single period 


t

















C


0



=


baseline cash inflow-outflows
















r


=


discount rate







\begin{aligned} &IRR = NPV = \sum_{t = 1}^T \frac{C_t}{(1+ r)^t} - C_0 = 0 \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &T=\text{total number of time periods}\\ &t = \text{time period}\\ &C_t = \text{net cash inflow-outflows during a single period }t \\ &C_0 = \text{baseline cash inflow-outflows}\\ &r = \text{discount rate}\\ \end{aligned}


​IRR=NPV=t=1∑T​(1+r)tCt​​−C0​=0where:T=total number of time periodst=time periodCt​=net cash inflow-outflows during a single period tC0​=baseline cash inflow-outflowsr=discount rate​




What Are Some Alternatives to the Rate of Return?
The Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and the Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) are good alternatives to RoR. IRR is the discount rate that makes the net present value of all cash flows equal to zero. CAGR refers to the annual growth rate of an investment taking into account the effect of compound interest.




What Are Some Drawbacks of RoR?
The rate of return disregards some key factors in an investment, like the time value of money, the timing and size of cash flows, and the risk and uncertainty associated with any investment.




What Is Considered a Good Return on an Investment?
A good return on investment is generally considered to be about 7% per year, which is also the average annual return of the S&P 500, adjusting for inflation.


   The Bottom Line  

The rate of return (ROR) is a simple to calculate metric that shows the net gain or loss of an investment or project over a set period of time. RoR is expressed as a percentage of the initial value.



The internal rate of return (IRR) also measures the performance of investments or projects, but while ROR shows the total growth since the start of the project, IRR shows the annual growth rate. The Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) is another metric that shows the annual growth rate of an investment, but this time taking into account the effect of compound interest.
What Is a Rating?  

A rating is an assessment tool assigned by an analyst or rating agency to a stock or bond. The rating assigned indicates the stock or bond's level of investment opportunity. The three major rating agencies are Standard & Poor's, Moody's Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings. 





Key Takeaways

A rating is an assessment tool assigned by an analyst or rating agency to a stock or bond.The three major bond rating agencies are Standard & Poor's, Moody's Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings.Bond ratings evaluate the creditworthiness of the issuer or insurer, which can be interpreted as a direct measure of the chances of default.For stocks, buy-side and sell-side analysts will do research and then write an opinion of the stocks they cover, which will include a rating such as "buy", "hold " or "sell".


   How a Rating Works  

Analysts who work on both the buy-side and sell-side of the industry research stocks and write opinions on those stocks, which will often include a rating such as "buy", "hold " or "sell". Meanwhile, bonds are rated by the three major bond rating agencies. 






A company can improve its rating score by maintaining as little debt as possible and staying vigilant when sudden changes occur within the company.


   Types of Ratings  
  Analyst Ratings  

Analysts on the buy-side will write opinions for their teams for the purposes of informing portfolio management decisions. Analysts on the sell-side will write opinions to educate others on their research and in an attempt to sell particular stocks on behalf of clients. For a stock, an analyst may assign a "buy", "hold " or "sell" rating and an explanation of why they recommend this action for the stock. 



When it comes to major Wall Street banks and institutions, they all use different terminology and classifications. Morgan Stanley, for example, uses the terms "overweight", "equal-weight", and "underweight". The timeline for its ratings is 12 to 18 months. Credit Suisse uses the terms "outperform," "neutral", and "underperform", which is based on a 12-month time period. All of these terms are variations of the "buy", "hold", and "sell" ratings.





U.S. Credit Rating Downgraded

In August 2023, Fitch Ratings dropped the credit rating of the United States from AAA to AA+, citing a "steady deterioration in standards of governance" within Congress over raising the country's debt ceiling. These bouts of brinkmanship raised the prospects that the U.S. might eventually default on some debts, increasing the risk for international lenders. The other two major agencies did not change their evaluation of the country's credit risk.


  Rating Agency Ratings   

For a bond, a rating agency will assess the bond's relative safety based upon the issuing entity's fundamental financial picture, which scrutinizes the issuer's ability to repay the principal and make interest payments.



The ratings for Moody's and S&P from highest to lowest in the investment grade category are Aaa/AAA, Aa1/AA+, Aa2/AA, Aa3/AA-, A1/A+, A2/A, A3/A-, Baa1/BBB+, Baa2/BBB and Baa3/BBB-.



Standard & Poor's is the provider of the S&P 500 Index, as well as a leading data source and index provider of independent credit ratings. S&P 500 Index is a widely utilized gauge for determining the overall condition of the U.S. stock market.



Moody's is a provider of international financial research on government and commercial issued bonds. Moody's utilizes a rating system to judge a borrower's creditworthiness. This rating scale goes starts at Aaa (being of the highest quality) and goes to C (being of the lowest quality).



Fitch Ratings is also a credit rating agency that is international. This agency bases its ratings on factors such as how sensitive a company is to internal changes and the kind of debt the company holds. Fitch is used by investors as a guide to what investments will not default and will, in turn, lead to a solid return.



The ratings assigned by the various rating agencies are based primarily upon the insurer's or issuer's creditworthiness. This rating can, therefore, be interpreted as a direct measure of the probability of default. However, credit stability and priority of payment are also factored into the rating.




What Does "Investment-Grade" Mean in Bond Ratings?
When it comes to credit ratings, a bond is considered "Investment grade" if it has a rating of BBB- or higher from Standard and Poors, or a rating of Baa3 or higher from Moody's. These ratings indicate that the borrower has a relatively high chance of repaying their debts on time, with low risk for the lender.




What Does "Speculative" Mean in Bond Ratings?
A bond is considered "speculative" if it has a rating of BBB- or lower from Standard and Poor's, or a rating of Baa3 or lower from Moody's. These ratings indicate a relatively high degree of credit risk, and borrowers must pay higher interest rates to accomodate the higher risk.




What Happens When a Credit Rating Drops?
A lower credit rating means that credit agencies believe the borrower is becoming more risky, either due to a higher level of debt, falling income, or other causes that make the borrower less able to pay their obligations. These borrowers will need to pay higher interest rates to make up for the increased risk to lenders.


   The Bottom Line  

Ratings are used to assess the quality of an investment, such as a stock or bond. Analysts issue ratings for different instruments based on the risks and opportunities associated with a particular investment. There are several different ratings agencies with their own systems for evaluating risk and opportunity.
What Is Ratio Analysis?  

Ratio analysis is a quantitative method of gaining insight into a company's liquidity, operational efficiency, and profitability by studying its financial statements such as the balance sheet and income statement. Ratio analysis is a cornerstone of fundamental equity analysis.





Key Takeaways

Ratio analysis compares line-item data from a company's financial statements to reveal insights regarding profitability, liquidity, operational efficiency, and solvency.Ratio analysis can mark how a company is performing over time, while comparing a company to another within the same industry or sector.Ratio analysis may also be required by external parties that set benchmarks often tied to risk.While ratios offer useful insight into a company, they should be paired with other metrics, to obtain a broader picture of a company's financial health.Examples of ratio analysis include current ratio, gross profit margin ratio, inventory turnover ratio.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   What Does Ratio Analysis Tell You?  

Investors and analysts employ ratio analysis to evaluate the financial health of companies by scrutinizing past and current financial statements. Comparative data can demonstrate how a company is performing over time and can be used to estimate likely future performance. This data can also compare a company's financial standing with industry averages while measuring how a company stacks up against others within the same sector.



Investors can use ratio analysis easily, and every figure needed to calculate the ratios is found on a company's financial statements.



Ratios are comparison points for companies. They evaluate stocks within an industry. Likewise, they measure a company today against its historical numbers. In most cases, it is also important to understand the variables driving ratios as management has the flexibility to, at times, alter its strategy to make it's stock and company ratios more attractive. Generally, ratios are typically not used in isolation but rather in combination with other ratios. Having a good idea of the ratios in each of the four previously mentioned categories will give you a comprehensive view of the company from different angles and help you spot potential red flags.






A ratio is the relation between two amounts showing the number of times one value contains or is contained within the other.


   Types of Ratio Analysis  

The various kinds of financial ratios available may be broadly grouped into the following six silos, based on the sets of data they provide:


  1. Liquidity Ratios  

Liquidity ratios measure a company's ability to pay off its short-term debts as they become due, using the company's current or quick assets. Liquidity ratios include the current ratio, quick ratio, and working capital ratio.


  2. Solvency Ratios  

Also called financial leverage ratios, solvency ratios compare a company's debt levels with its assets, equity, and earnings, to evaluate the likelihood of a company staying afloat over the long haul, by paying off its long-term debt as well as the interest on its debt. Examples of solvency ratios include: debt-equity ratios, debt-assets ratios, and interest coverage ratios.


  3. Profitability Ratios  

These ratios convey how well a company can generate profits from its operations. Profit margin, return on assets, return on equity, return on capital employed, and gross margin ratios are all examples of profitability ratios.


  4. Efficiency Ratios  

Also called activity ratios, efficiency ratios evaluate how efficiently a company uses its assets and liabilities to generate sales and maximize profits. Key efficiency ratios include: turnover ratio, inventory turnover, and days' sales in inventory.


  5. Coverage Ratios  

Coverage ratios measure a company's ability to make the interest payments and other obligations associated with its debts. Examples include the times interest earned ratio and the debt-service coverage ratio.


  6. Market Prospect Ratios  

These are the most commonly used ratios in fundamental analysis. They include dividend yield, P/E ratio, earnings per share (EPS), and dividend payout ratio. Investors use these metrics to predict earnings and future performance.



For example, if the average P/E ratio of all companies in the S&P 500 index is 20, and the majority of companies have P/Es between 15 and 25, a stock with a P/E ratio of seven would be considered undervalued. In contrast, one with a P/E ratio of 50 would be considered overvalued. The former may trend upwards in the future, while the latter may trend downwards until each aligns with its intrinsic value.






Most ratio analysis is only used for internal decision making. Though some benchmarks are set externally (discussed below), ratio analysis is often not a required aspect of budgeting or planning.


   Application of Ratio Analysis  

The fundamental basis of ratio analysis is to compare multiple figures and derive a calculated value. By itself, that value may hold little to no value. Instead, ratio analysis must often be applied to a comparable to determine whether or a company's financial health is strong, weak, improving, or deteriorating.


  Ratio Analysis Over Time  

A company can perform ratio analysis over time to get a better understanding of the trajectory of its company. Instead of being focused on where it is today, the company is more interested n how the company has performed over time, what changes have worked, and what risks still exist looking to the future. Performing ratio analysis is a central part in forming long-term decisions and strategic planning.



To perform ratio analysis over time, a company selects a single financial ratio, then calculates that ratio on a fixed cadence (i.e. calculating its quick ratio every month). Be mindful of seasonality and how temporarily fluctuations in account balances may impact month-over-month ratio calculations. Then, a company analyzes how the ratio has changed over time (whether it is improving, the rate at which it is changing, and whether the company wanted the ratio to change over time).


  Ratio Analysis Across Companies  

Imagine a company with a 10% gross profit margin. A company may be thrilled with this financial ratio until it learns that every competitor is achieving a gross profit margin of 25%. Ratio analysis is incredibly useful for a company to better stand how its performance compares to similar companies.



To correctly implement ratio analysis to compare different companies, consider only analyzing similar companies within the same industry. In addition, be mindful how different capital structures and company sizes may impact a company's ability to be efficient. In addition, consider how companies with varying product lines (i.e. some technology companies may offer products as well as services, two different product lines with varying impacts to ratio analysis).






Different industries simply have different ratio expectations. A debt-equity ratio that might be normal for a utility company that can obtain low-cost debt might be deemed unsustainably high for a technology company that relies more heavily on private investor funding.


  Ratio Analysis Against Benchmarks  

Companies may set internal targets for their financial ratios. These calculations may hold current levels steady or strive for operational growth. For example, a company's existing current ratio may be 1.1; if the company wants to become more liquid, it may set the internal target of having a current ratio of 1.2 by the end of the fiscal year.



Benchmarks are also frequently implemented by external parties such lenders. Lending institutions often set requirements for financial health as part of covenants in loan documents. Covenants form part of the loan's terms and conditions and companies must maintain certain metrics or the loan may be recalled.



If these benchmarks are not met, an entire loan may be callable or a company may be faced with an adjusted higher rate of interest to compensation for this risk. An example of a benchmark set by a lender is often the debt service coverage ratio which measures a company's cash flow against it's debt balances.


   Examples of Ratio Analysis in Use  

Ratio analysis can predict a company's future performance—for better or worse. Successful companies generally boast solid ratios in all areas, where any sudden hint of weakness in one area may spark a significant stock sell-off. Let's look at a few simple examples



Net profit margin, often referred to simply as profit margin or the bottom line, is a ratio that investors use to compare the profitability of companies within the same sector. It's calculated by dividing a company's net income by its revenues. Instead of dissecting financial statements to compare how profitable companies are, an investor can use this ratio instead. For example, suppose company ABC and company DEF are in the same sector with profit margins of 50% and 10%, respectively. An investor can easily compare the two companies and conclude that ABC converted 50% of its revenues into profits, while DEF only converted 10%.



Using the companies from the above example, suppose ABC has a P/E ratio of 100, while DEF has a P/E ratio of 10. An average investor concludes that investors are willing to pay $100 per $1 of earnings ABC generates and only $10 per $1 of earnings DEF generates.




What Are the Types of Ratio Analysis?
Financial ratio analysis is often broken into six different types: profitability, solvency, liquidity, turnover, coverage, and market prospects ratios. Other non-financial metrics may be scattered across various departments and industries. For example, a marketing department may use a conversion click ratio to analyze customer capture.




What Are the Uses of Ratio Analysis?
Ratio analysis serves three main uses. First, ratio analysis can be performed to track changes to a company over time to better understand the trajectory of operations. Second, ratio analysis can be performed to compare results with other similar companies to see how the company is doing compared to competitors. Third, ratio analysis can be performed to strive for specific internally-set or externally-set benchmarks.




Why Is Ratio Analysis Important?
Ratio analysis is important because it may portray a more accurate representation of the state of operations for a company. Consider a company that made $1 billion of revenue last quarter. Though this seems ideal, the company might have had a negative gross profit margin, a decrease in liquidity ratio metrics, and lower earnings compared to equity than in prior periods. Static numbers on their own may not fully explain how a company is performing.




What Is an Example of Ratio Analysis?
Consider the inventory turnover ratio that measures how quickly a company converts inventory to a sale. A company can track its inventory turnover over a full calendar year to see how quickly it converted goods to cash each month. Then, a company can explore the reasons certain months lagged or why certain months exceeded expectations.


   The Bottom Line  

There is often an overwhelming amount of data and information useful for a company to make decisions. To make better use of their information, a company may compare several numbers together. This process called ratio analysis allows a company to gain better insights to how it is performing over time, against competition, and against internal goals. Ratio analysis is usually rooted heavily with financial metrics, though ratio analysis can be performed with non-financial data.
What Is Rational Behavior?  

Rational behavior refers to a decision-making process that is based on making choices that result in the optimal level of benefit or utility for an individual. The assumption of rational behavior implies that people would rather take actions that benefit them versus actions that are neutral or harm them. Most classical economic theories are based on the assumption that all individuals taking part in an activity are behaving rationally.





Key Takeaways

Rational behavior refers to a decision-making process that is based on making choices that result in an optimal level of benefit or utility.Rational choice theory is an economic theory that assumes rational behavior on the part of individuals.Rational behavior may not involve receiving the most monetary or material benefit, because the satisfaction received could be purely emotional or non-monetary.


   Understanding Rational Behavior  

Rational behavior is the cornerstone of rational choice theory, a theory of economics that assumes that individuals always make decisions that provide them with the highest amount of personal utility. These decisions provide people with the greatest benefit or satisfaction given the choices available. Rational behavior may not involve receiving the most monetary or material benefit, because the satisfaction received could be purely emotional or non-monetary.



For example, while it is likely more financially beneficial for an executive to stay on at a company rather than retire early, it is still considered rational behavior for her to seek an early retirement if she feels the benefits of retired life outweigh the utility from the paycheck she receives. The optimal benefit for an individual may involve non-monetary returns.



Further, a person’s willingness to take on risk, or conversely, their aversion to risk, may be considered rational depending on their goals and circumstances. For example, an investor may choose to take on more risk in his own retirement account than in an account designated for his children's college education. Both would be considered rational choices for this investor.


   Behavioral Economics  

Behavioral economics is a method of economic analysis that considers psychological insights to explain human behavior as it relates to economic decision-making. According to rational choice theory, the rational person has self-control and is unmoved by emotional factors. However, behavioral economics acknowledges that people are emotional and easily distracted, and therefore, their behavior does not always follow the predictions of economic models. Psychological factors and emotions influence the actions of individuals and can lead them to make decisions that may not appear to be entirely rational.



Behavioral economics seeks to explain why people make certain decisions about how much to pay for a cup of coffee, whether or not to pursue a college education or a healthy lifestyle, and how much to save for retirement, among other decisions that most people have to make at some point in their life.



Investors may also make decisions primarily based on emotions, for example, investing in a company for which the investor has positive feelings, even if financial models suggest the investment is not wise.


   Example of Rational Behavior  

For example, an individual may choose to invest in the stock of an organic produce operation, rather than a conventional produce operation, if they have strong beliefs in the value of organic produce. They may choose to do this regardless of the present value of the organic operation compared with that of the conventional operation, and despite the fact that the conventional operation would earn a higher return.
What Is Rational Choice Theory?  

Rational choice theory states that individuals use rational calculations to make rational choices and achieve outcomes that are aligned with their own personal objectives. These results are also associated with maximizing an individual's self-interest. Using rational choice theory is expected to result in outcomes that provide people with the greatest benefit and satisfaction, given the limited option they have available.





Key Takeaways

Rational choice theory states that individuals rely on rational calculations to make rational choices that result in outcomes aligned with their own best interests.Rational choice theory is often associated with the concepts of rational actors, self-interest, and the invisible hand.Many economists believe that the factors associated with rational choice theory are beneficial to the economy as a whole.Adam Smith was one of the first economists to develop the underlying principles of the rational choice theory.There are many economists who dispute the veracity of the rational choice theory and the invisible hand theory. 


   Understanding Rational Choice Theory  

Many mainstream economic assumptions and theories are based on rational choice theory. Rational choice theory is associated with the concepts of rational actors, self-interest, and the invisible hand.



Rational choice theory is based on the assumption of involvement from rational actors. Rational actors are the individuals in an economy who make rational choices based on calculations and the information that is available to them. Rational actors form the basis of rational choice theory. Rational choice theory assumes that individuals, or rational actors, try to actively maximize their advantage in any situation and, therefore, consistently try to minimize their losses.



Economists may use this assumption of rationality as part of broader studies seeking to understand certain behaviors of society as a whole.


   Self-Interest and the Invisible Hand  

Adam Smith was one of the first economists to develop the underlying principles of the rational choice theory. Smith elaborated on his studies of self-interest and the invisible hand theory in his book “An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations,” which was published in 1776.



The invisible hand itself is a metaphor for the unseen forces that influence a free market economy. First and foremost, the invisible hand theory assumes self-interest. Both this theory and further developments in the rational choice theory refute any negative misconceptions associated with self-interest. Instead, these concepts suggest that rational actors acting with their own self-interest in mind can actually create benefits for the economy at large.



According to the invisible hand theory, individuals driven by self-interest and rationality will make decisions that lead to positive benefits for the whole economy. Through the freedom of production, as well as consumption, the best interests of society are fulfilled. The constant interplay of individual pressures on market supply and demand causes the natural movement of prices and the flow of trade. Economists who believe in the invisible hand theory lobby for less government intervention and more free-market exchange opportunities.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Rational Choice Theory  

There are many economists who dispute the veracity of the rational choice theory and the invisible hand theory. Dissenters have pointed out that individuals do not always make rational, utility-maximizing decisions. The field of behavioral economics is a more recent intervention into the problem of explaining the economic decision-making processes of individuals and institutions.



Behavioral economics attempts to explain—from a psychological perspective—why individual actors sometimes make irrational decisions, and why and how their behavior does not always follow the predictions of economic models. Critics of rational choice theory say that, of course, in an ideal world people would always make optimal decisions that provide them with the greatest benefit and satisfaction. However, we don't live in a perfect world; in reality, people are often moved by emotions and external factors.



The Nobel laureate Herbert Simon, who rejected the assumption of perfect rationality in mainstream economics, proposed the theory of bounded rationality instead. This theory says that people are not always able to obtain all the information they would need to make the best possible decision. Simon argued that knowledge of all alternatives, or all consequences that follow from each alternative, is realistically impossible for most decisions that humans make.



Similarly, the economist Richard Thaler pointed out further limitations of the assumption that humans operate as rational actors. Thaler's idea of mental accounting shows how people place greater value on some dollars than others, even though all dollars have the same value. They might drive to another store to save $10 on a $20 purchase but they would not drive to another store to save $10 on a $1,000 purchase.



Like all theories, one of the benefits of rational choice theory is that can be helpful in explaining individual and collective behaviors. All theories attempt to give meaning to the things we observe in the world. Rational choice theory can explain why people, groups, and society as a whole make certain choices, based on specific costs and rewards.



Rational choice theory also helps to explain behavior that seems irrational. Because a central premise of rational choice theory is that all behavior is rational, any action can be scrutinized for its underlying rational motivations.





Pros of Rational Choice Theory

Helpful in explaining individual and collective behaviors
All theories attempt to give meaning to the things we observe in the world.
Can help to explain behavior that seems irrational



Cons of Rational Choice Theory

Individuals do not always make rational decisions.
In reality, people are often moved by external factors that are not rational, such as emotions.
Individuals do not have perfect access to the information they would need to make the most rational decision every time.
People value some dollars more than others.





   Examples of Rational Choice Theory  

According to rational choice theory, rational investors are those investors that will quickly buy any stocks that are priced too low and short-sell any stocks that are priced too high.



An example of a rational consumer would be a person choosing between two cars. Car B is cheaper than Car A, so the consumer purchases Car B.



While rational choice theory is logical and easy to understand, it is often contradicted in the real world. For example, political factions that were in favor of the Brexit vote, held on June 23, 2016, used promotional campaigns that were based on emotion rather than rational analysis. These campaigns led to the semi-shocking and unexpected result of the vote—the United Kingdom officially decided to leave the European Union. The financial markets then responded in kind with shock, wildly increasing short-term volatility, as measured by the Cboe Volatility Index (VIX).






Rational behavior may not involve receiving the most monetary or material benefit; the benefit of a particular choice could be purely emotional or non-monetary. For example, while it is likely more financially beneficial for an executive to stay on at a company rather than take time off to care for their new newborn child, it is still considered rational behavior for them to take time off if they feel that the benefits of the time spent with their child outweigh the utility from the paycheck they receive.




What Is Rational Choice Theory?
The key premise of rational choice theory is that people don’t randomly select products off the shelf. Rather, they use a logical decision-making process that takes into account the costs and benefits of various options, weighing the options against each other. 




Who Founded Rational Choice Theory?
Adam Smith, who proposed the idea of an "invisible hand" moving free-market economies in the mid-1770s, is usually credited as the father of rational choice theory. Smith discusses the invisible hand theory in his book “An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations,” which was published in 1776.




What Are the Main Goals of Rational Choice Theory?
The main goal of rational choice theory is to explain why individuals and larger groups make certain choices, based on specific costs and rewards. According to rational choice theory, individuals use their self-interests to make choices that will provide them with the greatest benefit. People weigh their options and make the choice they think will serve them best.




What Is Rational Choice Theory in International Relations?
States, intergovernmental organizations, nongovernmental organizations, and multinational corporations are all made up of human beings. In order to understand the actions of these entities, we must understand the behavior of the humans running them. Rational choice theory helps to explain how leaders and other important decision-makers of organizations and institutions make decisions. Rational choice theory can also attempt to predict the future actions of these actors.




What Are the Strengths of Rational Choice Theory?
One of the strengths of rational choice theory is the versatility of its application. It can be applied to many different disciplines and areas of study. It also makes reasonable assumptions and compelling logic. The theory also encourages individuals to make sound economic decisions. By making sound economic decisions, it is possible for an individual to acquire more tools that will allow them to further maximize their preferences in the future.


   The Bottom Line  

The majority of classical economic theories are based on the assumptions of rational choice theory: individuals make choices that result in the optimal level of benefit or utility for them. Further, people would rather take actions that benefit them versus actions that are neutral or harm them. Although many criticisms of rational choice theory exist—because people are emotional and easily distracted, and therefore, their behavior does not always follow the predictions of economic models—it is still widely applied across different academic disciplines and fields of study.
What Is Rational Expectations Theory?  

The rational expectations theory is a concept and modeling technique that is used widely in macroeconomics. The theory posits that individuals base their decisions on three primary factors: their human rationality, the information available to them, and their past experiences.



The theory suggests that people’s current expectations of the economy are, themselves, able to influence what the future state of the economy will become. This precept contrasts with the idea that government policy influences financial and economic decisions.





Key Takeaways

The rational expectations theory posits that individuals base their decisions on human rationality, information available to them, and their past experiences.The rational expectations theory is a concept and theory used in macroeconomics.Economists use the rational expectations theory to explain anticipated economic factors, such as inflation rates and interest rates.The idea behind the rational expectations theory is that past outcomes influence future outcomes.The theory also believes that because people make decisions based on the available information at hand combined with their past experiences, most of the time their decisions will be correct.


   Understanding Rational Expectations Theory  

The rational expectations theory is the dominant assumption model used in business cycles and finance as a cornerstone of the efficient market hypothesis (EMH). 



Economists often use the doctrine of rational expectations to explain anticipated inflation rates or any other economic state. For example, if past inflation rates were higher than expected, then people might consider this, along with other indicators, to mean that future inflation also might exceed expectations.



Using the idea of “expectations” in economic theory is not new. In the 1930s, the famous British economist, John Maynard Keynes assigned people’s expectations about the future—which he called “waves of optimism and pessimism”—a central role in determining the business cycle.



However, the actual theory of rational expectations was proposed by John F. Muth in his seminal paper, “Rational Expectations and the Theory of Price Movements,” published in 1961 in the journal, Econometrica. Muth used the term to describe numerous scenarios in which an outcome depends partly on what people expect will happen. The theory did not catch on until the 1970s with Robert E. Lucas, Jr. and the neoclassical revolution in economics.


   The Influence of Expectations and Outcomes  

Expectations and outcomes influence each other. There is continual feedback flow from past outcomes to current expectations. In recurrent situations, the way the future unfolds from the past tends to be stable, and people adjust their forecasts to conform to this stable pattern.



This doctrine is motivated by the thinking that led Abraham Lincoln to assert, “You can fool some of the people all of the time and all of the people some of the time, but you cannot fool all of the people all of the time.”



From the perspective of rational expectations theory, Lincoln’s statement is on target: The theory does not deny that people often make forecasting errors, but it does suggest that errors will not recur persistently.



Because people make decisions based on the available information at hand combined with their past experiences, most of the time their decisions will be correct. If their decisions are correct, then the same expectations for the future will occur. If their decision was incorrect, then they will adjust their behavior based on past mistakes.


   Rational Expectations Theory: Does It Work?  

Economics relies heavily on models and theories, many of which are interrelated. For example, rational expectations have a critical relationship with another fundamental idea in economics: the concept of equilibrium. The validity of economic theories—do they work as they should in predicting future states?—is always arguable. An example of this is the ongoing debate about existing models’ failure to predict or untangle the causes of the 2007–2008 financial crisis.



Because myriad factors are involved in economic models, it is never a simple question of working or not working. Models are subjective approximations of reality that are designed to explain observed phenomena. A model’s predictions must be tempered by the randomness of the underlying data it seeks to explain, and the theories that drive its equations. 



When the Federal Reserve decided to use a quantitative easing program to help the economy through the 2008 financial crisis, it unwittingly set unattainable expectations for the country. The program reduced interest rates for more than seven years. Thus, true to theory, people began to believe that interest rates would remain low.
What Is Rationalization?  

Rationalization is the reorganization of a company in order to increase its operating efficiency. This sort of reorganization may lead to an expansion or reduction in company size, a change of policy, or alteration of strategy pertaining to particular products offered. Similar to a reorganization, a rationalization is more widespread, encompassing strategy as well as structural changes. Rationalization is necessary for a company to increase revenue, decrease costs and improve its bottom line.



Rationalization may also refer to the process of becoming calculable. For example, the introduction of certain financial models or financial technologies rationalizes markets and makes them more efficient. The introduction of the Black-Scholes model for options pricing, for instance, helped to rationalize the options markets in Chicago in the late 1970s.





Key Takeaways

Product and applications rationalization are two forms of rationalization.Rationalization is done by a company to improve its operations.Company rationalization often entails a change of policy, alternation of products, and it may lead to reducing or adding employees. Often rationalization occurs when a company is seeking to improve its bottom line and improve revenue. Disadvantages to rationalization include focusing too much on efficiency at the expense of human capital, a loss of initiative from the workforce, its costliness (of both time and money), and it provides no guarantee of improved returns.


   Understanding Rationalization  

In the business world, rationalization is a process that most organizations consider. That's because it's aimed at improving efficiency, getting rid of waste, standardizing processes, and ultimately boosting the bottom line.



Depending on the company and strategy, rationalization can result in the expansion or reduction in the size of the firm. It can also lead to structural changes.



Specifically, the process of rationalization may involve corporate actions including sales or closures of underperforming business segments, the expansion of outperforming segments, a complete restructuring of the company's financial structure, and a streamlining or modernizing of manufacturing or other operations.



In a large number of cases, asset rationalization results in the loss of hundreds of jobs.






Examining a company’s application portfolio is important to attain more efficient operations and cost integrations, reducing stranded costs left by a seller and streamlining the portfolio to best serve the business.


   The Need for Rationalization  

There are several reasons that a particular organization might need to go through the process of rationalization. They include the need to:



Reduce costs Maximize profitsConserve resourcesUnlock shareholder valueImprove transparency and governanceSimplify the business modelEliminate unnecessary products and idle capacityUpdate old machinery and other business processes






The process of rationalizing is especially common during recessions and after corporate actions such as a merger, acquisition, or new CEO hire.


   Types of Rationalization  

The following subheads are examples of rationalization.


  Products Rationalization  

Product rationalization is an important part of managing a product’s lifecycle. If products are not rationalized, their numbers continue to increase, adding complexity and increased support costs to the company’s bottom line. According to the 80/20 Rule, the bulk of a company’s revenue and profit (80 percent) comes from a fraction of its products (20 percent). Therefore, when rationalizing a product line, executives need to consider various factors.



The portfolio effect describes how a product’s addition or removal affects the rest of the company’s products. Sales may go to other products or be lost completely. Although rationalization may reduce complexity in the supply chain, as well as redundancy in both the portfolio and support costs, the costs can be difficult to quantify. The portion of sales that will not transfer to other products needs to be estimated and compensated for by new products entering the portfolio or the sales growth of existing products.



In addition, when products leave the portfolio, fixed costs typically remain the same; the costs must be spread across the remaining product line, increasing unit costs.



Production volume must be transferred to new or more profitable products to ensure the business remains solvent. Also, customer migration becomes an issue, as sales and operations managers must create and carry out migration plans. This is especially important with customers buying multiple products who may leave a company that is no longer providing one-stop shopping.


  Applications Rationalization  

Engaging in applications rationalization, especially during mergers and acquisitions, helps companies reduce costs, operate more efficiently, and focus on supporting deal objectives, legal and regulatory issues, systems and process integration, and business continuity.



Most businesses accumulate a vast information technology application portfolio over time, especially when companies grow and do not fully integrate operations and assets with each transaction.



Many applications do not support the company’s objectives after each merger or acquisition and need revision to support the new business.


   Rationalization of Markets  

In terms of market structure, financial models, theories, and technologies that embody these concepts have the force to rationalize markets—to make them calculable and more efficient, in terms of the efficient markets hypothesis (EMH).



As more information of various types is able to be processed by information technologies, transmitted and disseminated using communications technology, and incorporated into the market microstructure, prices become more efficient and the market appears more rational.



The increased use of mathematical formulas and financial models also helps with the rationalization of markets as they become dissociated with human emotion and fallibility.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Rationalization  

Rationalization helps companies standardize business processes in order to become more efficient and boost productivity.



It lets management introduce modern techniques and systems, allowing workers to improve their efficiency levels. In turn, rationalization can lead to better working conditions and higher pay for the workforce, ultimately leading to a higher standard of living in society.



Additionally, rationalization can translate into both reduced prices and a higher standard of products for consumers.



On the other hand, rationalization often focuses too much on efficiency at the expense of human capital. The emphasis on modernization and standardization often has negative consequences such as mass layoffs, a loss of initiative from the workforce, a significantly increased workload for the workers that remain, and a worse-off work environment.



Moreover, the process of rationalization is costly, requires consistent monitoring, and provides no guarantee of improved returns.





Pros of Rationalization

Helps companies become more efficient and boost productivity
Allows management to implement modernized techniques and systems
Lowers market volatility
Can provide the workforce with better working conditions and higher pay
Translates into a higher standard of living in society
Can lead to lower prices and better products for consumers



Cons of Rationalization

Emphasizes efficiency at the expense of human capital
Often involves large layoffs
Can lead to a significantly increased workload for the workers that remain
Loss of initiative from workers due to the mechanization of processes
Costly and requires consistent monitoring
No guarantee of improved returns





   Rationalization FAQs  
  What Is Asset Rationalization?  

Asset rationalization is the process of reorganizing a company's assets in order to increase operating efficiencies and, ultimately, improve its bottom line.


  What Are the Dangers of Rationalization?  

Dangers of rationalization include focusing too much on optimization at the expense of human capital, the possibility of negative cultural changes, and allocating capital in an ultimately inefficient manner.


  What Is Rationalization in Economics?  

In economics, rationalization is the process of changing a pre-existing workflow into one that's more goal-oriented and based on a specific set of rules.
What Is Rationing?  

Rationing is the practice of controlling the distribution of a good or service in order to cope with scarcity. Rationing is a mandate of the government, at the local or federal level. It can be undertaken in response to adverse weather conditions, trade or import/export restrictions, or, in more extreme cases, during a recession or a war.





Key Takeaways

Rationing is the limiting of goods or services that are in high demand and short supply.It is often undertaken by governments as a way of mitigating the impact of scarcity and dealing with economic challenges.Rationing risks generating black markets and unethical practices as people try to circumvent the austerity mandated by a ration.


   How Rationing Works  

Rationing involves the controlled distribution of a scarce good or service. An individual might be allotted a certain amount of food per week, for example, or households might be allowed to water their lawns only on certain days.



According to the law of supply and demand, when the available supply of a good or service falls below the quantity demanded, the equilibrium price rises, often to unaffordable levels. Rationing can artificially depress the price by putting constraints on demand.



Alternatively, price ceilings can be imposed; they risk the need for rationing in order to maintain a certain level of supply. In any case, rationing generally results in shortages. 


   Rationing Example  

The 1973 Arab oil embargo caused gasoline supplies in the U.S. to plummet, pushing up prices. The federal government responded by rationing domestic oil supplies to states, which in turn implemented systems to ration their limited stocks.



In some states, cars with license plates ending in odd numbers were only allowed to fill up on odd-numbered dates, for example, while cars with even numbered plates were only allowed to fill up on even-numbered days. These responses kept gas prices from spiking further but led to long lines.






Faced with the choice of allowing the prices of basic necessities to rise inexorably, or imposing rations, governments typically choose the latter; policymakers in such circumstances must choose among policies that are all difficult and risk some negative impact.


   Special Considerations  

Classical economic theory suggests that when demand exceeds supply, prices rise, and high prices, in turn, curtail demand and encourage new entrants to the market, increasing supply and bringing prices back down to reasonable levels. If the reality were this simple, rationing would be both counterproductive—because it creates shortages—and unnecessary, since the market will act to re-stabilize itself.



The problem is that for some goods and services—food, fuel, and medical care—demand is inelastic; that is, it does not fall in proportion to increases in price. Moreover, the entry of new suppliers to rebalance markets may not be possible if the shortage is the result of a crop failure, war, natural disaster, siege, or embargo. While not ideal, rationing is often undertaken by governments that would otherwise be facing an even bigger economic crisis.


   Rationing to Combat Shortages  

Many capitalist economies have temporarily resorted to rationing in order to cope with wartime or disaster-related shortages: the U.S. and Britain issued ration books during World War II, for example, limiting the quantities of tires, gasoline, sugar, meat, butter, and other goods that could be purchased.



In communist countries, by contrast, rationing was in many cases a permanent or semi-permanent feature of daily life. In Cuba in 2019, a ration book entitled an individual to small amounts of rice, beans, eggs, sugar, coffee, and cooking oil for the equivalent of a few cents in the United States.



Since that is not enough to survive, Cubans must purchase additional supplies on the open market, where the price of rice is around 20 times higher. Additionally, there are limits on the number of higher-quality items Cubans can purchase on the open market, such as chicken.






Cuba has implemented rationing as a way of mitigating the impact of an economic crisis; citizens are entitled to small amounts of basic food for almost no charge, while everything else is pricey and supplies are limited.


   Risks of Rationing  

Rationing provides governments with a way to constrain demand, regulate supply, and cap prices, but it does not totally neutralize the laws of supply and demand. Black markets often spring up when rationing is in effect. These allow people to trade rationed goods they may not want for ones they do.



Black markets also allow people to sell goods and services for prices that are more in line with demand, undermining the intent of rationing and price controls, but sometimes alleviating shortages.
What Are Raw Materials?  

Raw materials are materials or substances used in the primary production or manufacturing of goods. Raw materials are commodities that are bought and sold on commodities exchanges worldwide. Businesses buy and sell raw materials in the factor market because raw materials are factors of production.





Key Takeaways

Raw materials are the input goods or inventory that a company needs to manufacture its products.Examples of raw materials include steel, oil, corn, grain, gasoline, lumber, forest resources, plastic, natural gas, coal, and minerals.Raw materials can be direct raw materials, which are directly used in the manufacturing process, such as wood for a chair. Indirect raw materials are not part of the final product but are instead used comprehensively in the production process.The value of direct raw materials inventory appears as a current asset on the balance sheet.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding Raw Materials  

Raw materials are used in a multitude of products and can take many different forms. Raw materials are the input goods or inventory that a company needs to manufacture its products. For example, the steel used to manufacture vehicles would be a raw material for an automobile manufacturer. For manufacturing companies, raw materials inventory requires detailed budgeting and a special framework for accounting on the balance sheet and income statement.



Raw materials are often related to natural resources. For this reason, manufacturing companies may be at the disposal of mother nature regarding the availability to secure raw materials. In the same light, manufacturing companies may not want to directly invest in extracting the raw materials. For example, consider how a company that relies on oil or plastics often does not own the drilling rig that extracts the raw materials from the group.






Examples of raw materials include steel, oil, corn, grain, gasoline, lumber, forest resources, plastic, natural gas, coal, and minerals.


   Accounting for Raw Materials  

Manufacturing companies take special steps to account for raw materials inventory. This includes three distinct inventory classifications on their balance sheet compared to just one for non-manufacturers. The current assets portion of the balance sheet represents the assets that are likely to be used up in less than one year and include:



Raw materials inventoryWork-in-processFinished goods



All inventory, including raw materials inventory, should be valued at its comprehensive cost. This means its value includes shipping, storage, and preparation. The typical journal entries in an accrual accounting system for the initial purchases of raw materials inventory include a credit to cash and a debit to inventory. Debiting inventory increases current assets, and crediting cash will reduce cash assets by the inventory amount.



When a company uses raw materials inventory in production, it transfers them from the raw materials inventory to the work-in-process inventory. When a company completes its work-in-process items, it adds the finished items to the finished goods inventory, making them ready for sale.


   Direct vs. Indirect Raw Materials  

In some cases, raw materials may be divided into two categories: direct and indirect. Whether a raw material is direct or indirect will influence where it is reported on the balance sheet and how it is expensed on the income statement.


  Direct Raw Materials  

Direct raw materials are materials that companies directly use in the manufacturing of a finished product, such as wood for a chair. Direct raw materials are placed in current assets and are expensed on the income statement within cost of goods sold.



Manufacturing companies must also take added steps over non-manufacturing companies to create more detailed expense reporting on costs of goods sold. Direct raw materials are typically considered variable costs since the amount used depends on the quantities being produced.


  Direct Raw Materials Budget  

A manufacturer calculates the amount of direct raw materials it needs for specific periods to ensure there are no shortages. By closely tracking the amount of direct raw materials bought and used, an entity can reduce unnecessary inventory stock, potentially lower ordering costs, and reduce the risk of material obsolescence.



Raw materials may degrade in storage or become unusable in a product for various reasons. In this case, the company declares them obsolete. If this occurs, the company expenses the inventory as a debit to write-offs and credits the obsolete inventory to decrease assets.


  Indirect Raw Materials  

Indirect raw materials are not part of the final product but are instead used comprehensively in the production process. Indirect raw materials will be recorded as long-term assets. They can fall under several categories within long-term assets, including selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) or property, plant, and equipment (PP&E).



Long-term assets usually follow a depreciation schedule that allows them to be expensed over time and matched with revenue they help produce. For indirect raw materials, depreciation timing will usually be shorter than other long-term assets like a building expensed over several years.






Companies may make an entirely independent budget specific for raw materials when preparing its annual manufacturing or production budget.


   Types of Raw Materials  

Raw materials can be classified in several ways, but one common classification is the nature of how the good is extracted. These types include:



Mined raw materials extracted from the earth, such as ores, stones, metals, minerals, lime, sand, soil, oil, and coal.Plant-based raw materials come from trees or plants, including fruits, nuts, flowers, vegetables, resins, wood, cotton, and latex.Animal-based raw materials are extracted from animals such as milk, meat, furs, leather, and wool.



Raw materials are often segregated into these three categories as each type often entails very different investments to procure the raw materials. For example, the operations of a farm are substantially different from an oil drilling rig; companies that require both raw materials must be mindful of how to most efficiently source the materials.


   Example of Raw Materials  

Consider a company manufactures tables and chairs. Below are the materials used in production:



Direct raw materials: timber, wood, cushions, padding for the chairs, cloth fabric to cover the chairsIndirect raw materials: fittings, nails, wood glue, equipment for workers



Since the wood, padding, and fabric can be directly tied to the production of the tables and chairs, they are considered direct raw materials. When calculating the cost on a per-unit basis, the direct raw materials could be traced to each unit.



The glue, nails, and worker equipment would likely be considered indirect materials since the quantities used would not be significant, nor would they be directly tied to each unit produced. These types of costs would likely be allocated to a product via manufacturing overhead.




What Are Raw Materials in Food?
Raw materials in food can be standalone items like meats, milk, fruits, and vegetables. They can also refer to the ingredients that go into a food item or recipe. For instance, milk is a raw material used in the production of cheese and yogurt.




Is Water a Raw Material?
Yes, water can be thought of as a raw material that is used in a wide range of products and production processes, from beverages to agriculture to industrial uses.




What Is the Difference Between Inventory and Raw Materials?
In many cases, raw materials are a type of inventory. It represents goods on a balance sheet that have not yet been converted to work-in-progress or a finished product. Companies often buy, acquire, or extract raw materials for use, then report raw materials as an asset. Then, as the company uses raw materials in the production of finished goods, it converts the raw materials into products it can sell to consumers.




How Do Companies Get Raw Materials?
Companies are often very strategic in how they obtain raw materials. For many, it makes most financial sense to work closely with a reliable third-party that collects and distributes the raw materials. In other cases, it may be more efficient for companies to establish production facilities that directly collect the raw materials. The former path incurs ongoing operating expenses, while the latter path results in arguably less operating costs but greater upfront capital investment.


   The Bottom Line  

Raw materials are the inputs used in the production process to create finished products that are ready to sell to consumers. This makes raw materials a vital piece of the global economy and international trade. Having natural resources that can serve as raw materials can boost exports and help a country grow its GDP. Businesses and investors can engage in raw trading markets through commodities markets.
Reaganomics refers to the economic policies of Ronald Reagan, the 40th U.S. president, serving from 1981–1989. His economic policies called for widespread tax cuts, decreased social spending, increased military spending, and the deregulation of domestic markets. These policies were introduced in response to a prolonged period of economic stagflation that began under President Gerald Ford in 1976.





Key Takeaways

Reaganomics refers to the economic policies instituted by former President Ronald Reagan.President Reagan instituted tax cuts, decreased social spending, increased military spending, and implemented market deregulation.Reaganomics was influenced by the trickle-down theory and supply-side economics.Under President Reagan's administration, marginal tax rates decreased, tax revenues increased, inflation decreased, and the unemployment rate fell.


   Understanding Reaganomics  

The term Reaganomics was used by both supporters and detractors of Reagan's policies. Based on the principles of supply-side economics and the trickle-down theory, Reaganomics proposed that decreases in taxes, especially for corporations, stimulate economic growth. If the expenses of corporations are reduced, the savings then "trickle down" to the rest of the economy, spurring overall growth.


   Objectives of Reaganomics  

As Reagan began his first term, the country suffered through several years of stagflation, where high inflation was accompanied by high unemployment. To fight high inflation, the Federal Reserve Board increased the short-term interest rate, reaching a peak in 1981. Reagan proposed a four-pronged economic policy intended to reduce inflation and stimulate economic and job growth:



Reduce government spending on domestic programsReduce taxes for individuals, businesses, and investmentsReduce the burden of regulations on businessSupport slower money growth in the economy


   Measures Introduced by Reaganomics  

A proponent of supply-side economics, Reagan regarded government intervention as a damper on economic growth that reduced economic incentives and distorted market signals. To spur the free market, he introduced several measures to reduce government interference.


  Domestic Program Spending Cuts  

To curtail government intervention, Reagan cut or reduced funding to multiple domestic welfare programs, including Social Security, Medicaid, Food Stamps, education, and job training programs. In a deeply controversial move, he also ordered the Social Security Administration to tighten enforcement on disabled recipients, ending benefits for more than a million recipients.



Though Reagan ordered government spending cuts to domestic programs, he increased defense spending by 35% to achieve "peace through strength" in his opposition to Communism and the Soviet Union.


  Reduced Corporate, Individual, and Investment Taxes  

In the first year of his presidency, Reagan lowered taxes significantly. Income taxes on the top marginal tax bracket dropped from 70% to 50% in 1982, along with sharp cuts to corporate and estate taxes.



In 1986, GDP stood at 3.5%, but the unemployment rate was at a high of 6.6%. Reagan cut the tax rate to 38.5% in 1987, and unemployment fell to 5.7%.



The goal of these reforms was not only to reduce tax burdens but also to simplify the tax code. Some of Reagan's reforms eliminated write-offs, exceptions, and other loopholes for favored businesses. They also changed the way companies accounted for expenditures which encouraged them to invest in equipment.


  Decreased Government Regulation  

Reagan removed price controls on oil and gas, reduced restrictions on the financial services industry, and relaxed the enforcement of the Clean Air Act. The Department of the Interior also opened large areas of public land for oil drilling.



In 1982, Congress passed the Garn-St. Germain Depository Institutions Act for savings and loan banks to deal with rising inflation and interest rates by further deregulating deposit rates.


  Tight Monetary Policy  

As president, Reagan encouraged the Federal Reserve to tighten the money supply as Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker had steadily raised the federal funds rate to 20% by 1980 and these high-interest rates helped end double-digit inflation. The Reaganomics monetary policy was developed to complement the Federal Reserve's policy of raising interest rates to reduce borrowing and spending.






Some of the deregulation and monetary reforms associated with Ronald Reagan were initiated under President Carter. To the extent that these policies were consistent with Reagan's laissez-faire worldview, they are generally included with "Reaganomics."


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Reaganomics  

Advocates of President Reagan's policies cite "from December 1982 to June 1990, Reaganomics created over 21 million jobs—more jobs than have been added since," wrote Arthur Laffer, whose work heavily influenced Reagan's tax cuts. The top marginal tax rate on individual income was slashed from 70% to 28% and the corporate tax rate was reduced from 48% to 34%. Inflation was reduced to 4%, and the unemployment rate fell below 6%.



Between 1982 and 2000, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) grew nearly 14-fold, and the economy added 40 million new jobs. However, Nobel laureate Paul Krugman downplayed the success of Reagan's policies.



"Yes, there was a boom in the mid-1980s, as the economy recovered from a severe recession," Krugman wrote in The New York Times. "But while the rich got much richer, there was little sustained economic improvement for most Americans. By the late 1980s, middle-class incomes were barely higher than they had been a decade before and the poverty rate had risen."



Although Reagan reduced the economic regulation that began under President Jimmy Carter and eliminated price controls on oil and natural gas, long-distance telephone services, and cable television, critics argue that the deregulation of the financial services industry during the Reagan administration played a part in the Savings and Loan crisis, as well as the financial collapse of 2008.





Pros

The inflation level decreased significantly
Individual, corporate, and investment taxes were reduced
Deregulation encouraged a more open and free market



Cons

Public and social programs were curtailed
Both the national deficit and national debt increased
The divide increased between the wealthy and middle and lower classes







What Did Reaganomics Do?
Reaganomics reduced taxes on individuals and businesses, as well as cutting federal regulations and domestic social programs.




What Were the Goals of Reaganomics?
Reaganomics sought to reduce the cost of doing business, by reducing tax burdens, relaxing regulations and price controls, and cutting domestic spending programs. Reagan also sought to reduce inflation by tightening the money supply.




What Were the Major Parts of Reaganomics?
The four main pillars of Reaganomics were tax cuts, deregulation, cuts to domestic social spending, and reducing inflation.




Did Reagan Ever Say Trickle Down?
While there is no record of President Reagan using the phrase "trickle-down," his economic philosophy was closely aligned with the idea that business-friendly policies would ultimately benefit the entire economy. By reducing taxes on the wealthy, Reagan hoped the benefits would "trickle down" in the form of increased employment and business activity.




Does Trickle Down Economics Really Work?
While economists remain divided into various elements of Reaganomics, the suggestion that wealth would "trickle down" has so far remained unrealized. On the contrary, economic studies have found that tax cuts, such as those enacted by Reagan, tend to increase economic inequality rather than reduce it.


   The Bottom Line  

Reaganomics was regarded as a common-sense approach to the perception of stagflation and over-regulation that prevailed at the end of the Carter presidency. By reducing government spending and taxes, and making it easier to do business, President Reagan hoped to incentivize economic activity and reduce dependence on the government.



These policies garnered reduced inflation, lower unemployment, and an entrepreneurial revolution that later became synonymous with the 1980s. However, detractors of Reagan's policies claim that federal deficits grew, and the increased wealth gap increased the divide between the rich and the poor.
What Is a Real Asset?  

Real assets are physical assets that have an intrinsic worth due to their substance and properties. Real assets include precious metals, commodities, real estate, land, equipment, and natural resources. They are appropriate for inclusion in most diversified portfolios because of their relatively low correlation with financial assets, such as stocks and bonds.





Key Takeaways

A real asset is a tangible investment that has an intrinsic value due to its substance and physical properties.Commodities, real estate, equipment, and natural resources are all types of real assets.Real assets provide portfolio diversification, as they often move in opposite directions to financial assets like stocks or bonds.Real assets tend to be more stable but less liquid than financial assets.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding Real Assets  

Assets are categorized as either real, financial, or intangible. All assets can be said to be of economic value to a corporation or an individual. If it has a value that can be exchanged for cash, the item is considered an asset.



Intangible assets are valuable property that is not physical in nature. Such assets include patents, copyrights, brand recognition, trademarks, and intellectual property. For a business, perhaps the most important intangible asset is a positive brand identity.



Financial assets are a liquid property that derives value from a contractual right or ownership claim. Stocks, bonds, mutual funds, bank deposits, investment accounts, and good old cash are all examples of financial assets. They can have a physical form, like a dollar bill or a bond certificate, or be nonphysical—like a money market account or mutual fund.



In contrast, a real asset has a tangible form, and its value derives from its physical qualities. It can be a natural substance, like gold or oil, or a man-made one, like machinery or buildings.


   Special Considerations  

Financial and real assets are sometimes collectively referred to as tangible assets. For tax purposes, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requires businesses to report intangible assets differently than tangible assets, but it groups real and financial assets under the tangible asset umbrella.



Most businesses own a range of assets, which typically fall into real, financial, or intangible categories. Real assets, like financial assets, are considered tangible assets. For example, imagine XYZ Company owns a fleet of cars, a factory, and a great deal of equipment. These are real assets. However, the company also owns several trademarks and copyrights, which are its intangible assets. Finally, the company owns shares of stock in a sister company, and these are its financial assets.


   Real Assets vs. Financial Assets  

Although they are lumped together as tangible assets, real assets are a separate and distinct asset class from financial assets. Unlike real assets, which have intrinsic value, financial assets derive their value from a contractual claim on an underlying asset that may be real or intangible.



For example, commodities and property are real assets, but commodity futures, exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and real estate investment trusts (REITs) constitute financial assets whose value depends on the underlying real assets.



It is in those types of assets that overlap and confusion over asset categorization can occur. ETFs, for example, can invest in companies that are involved in the use, sale or mining of real assets, or more directly linked ETFs can aim to track the price movement of a specific real asset or basket of real assets.



Physically backed ETFs include some of the most popular ETFs in the world based on volumes, such as State Street's SPDR Gold Shares (GLD) and iShares Silver Trust (SLV). Both invest in precious metals and seek to mirror the performance of those metal. Technically speaking, though, these ETFs are financial assets, while the actual gold or silver bullion they own is the real asset.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Real Assets  

Real assets tend to be more stable than financial assets. Inflation, shifts in currency values, and other macroeconomic factors affect real assets less than financial assets. Real assets are particularly well-suited investments during inflationary times because of their tendency to outperform financial assets during such periods. 



In a 2017 report, asset management firm Brookfield cited a global value of real asset equities totaling $5.6 trillion. Of this total, 57% consisted of natural resources, 23% was real estate, and 20% was in infrastructure. In the firm's 2017 report on real assets as a diversification mechanism, Brookfield noted that long-lived real assets tend to increase in value as replacement costs and operational efficiency rise over time. Further, the found that cash-flow from real assets like real estate, energy servicing, and infrastructure projects can provide predictable and steady income streams for investors.



Real assets, however, have lower liquidity than financial assets, as they take longer to sell and have higher transaction fees in general. Also, real assets have higher carrying and storage costs than financial assets. For example, physical gold bullion often has to be stored in third-party facilities, which charge monthly rental fees and insurance.





Pros

Portfolio diversification
Inflation hedge
Income stream



Cons

Illiquidity
Storage fees, transport costs
What Is the Real Economic Growth Rate?  

The real economic growth rate, or real GDP growth rate, measures economic growth, as expressed by gross domestic product (GDP), from one period to another, adjusted for inflation or deflation. In other words, it reveals changes in the value of all goods and services produced by an economy—the economic output of a country—while accounting for price fluctuations.





Key Takeaways

The real economic growth rate removes inflation in its measurement of economic growth, unlike the nominal GDP growth rate.Real GDP can be calculated by adjusting nominal GDP by inflation.Real GDP can also be measured as a dollar or a percentage by calculating changes in real GDP from one period to the next.Real economic growth is used by policymakers to determine growth over time by comparing GDP from different time periods.Real economic growth is also used to compare the growth rates of similar economies with different rates of inflation.


   Understanding the Real Economic Growth Rate  

The real economic growth rate is expressed as a percentage that shows the rate of change in a country's GDP, typically from one year to the next. Another economic growth measure is the gross national product (GNP), which is sometimes preferred if a nation's economy is substantially dependent on foreign earnings.



The real GDP growth rate is a more useful measure than the nominal GDP growth rate because it considers the effect of inflation on economic data. The real economic growth rate is a "constant dollar" figure, avoiding the distortion from periods of extreme inflation or deflation to give a more consistent measure.


   Calculating the Real Economic Growth Rate  

GDP is the sum of consumer spending, business spending, government spending, and total exports, minus total imports. The calculation for factoring in inflation to arrive at the real GDP figure is as follows:



Real GDP = GDP / (1 + inflation since base year)



The base year is a designated year, updated periodically by the government and used as a comparison point for economic data such as the GDP. The calculation for the real GDP growth rate is based on real GDP, as follows:



Real GDP growth rate = (most recent year's real GDP - the last year's real GDP) / the previous year's real GDP



Real economic growth can also be calculated by backing inflation out of nominal GDP. Nominal economic growth is inclusive of inflation, while real economic growth is not. This calculation is done by factoring in a GDP deflator. A GDP deflator is the quotient of nominal GDP divided by real GDP divided by 100, so this method is only useful in determining real GDP if the GDP deflator is already known.



Real GDP = (Nominal GDP / GDP Deflator) x 100






At the end of 2010, real GDP in the United States was just over $15.8 trillion. At the end of Q2 2023, real GDP was measured at $20.4 trillion.


   How the Real Economic Growth Rate Is Used  

A country's real economic growth rate is helpful to policymakers when making fiscal policy or monetary policy decisions. These decisions might be applied to spur economic growth or control inflation.



Real economic growth rate figures serve two purposes:



The real economic growth rate figure is used to compare the current rate of economic growth with previous periods to ascertain the general trend in growth over time.
The real economic growth rate is helpful when comparing the growth rates of similar economies that have substantially different rates of inflation. A comparison of the nominal GDP growth rate for a country with only 1% inflation to the nominal GDP growth rate for a country with 10% inflation would be substantially misleading because nominal GDP does not adjust for inflation.



Economic growth rates are also useful for businesses and investors. An organization or company looking to expand into new markets may leverage GDP data to better understand growth opportunities in certain countries. Alternatively, an investor seeking to diversify into emerging markets may be suited to use GDP to understand geographical areas that may receive the greatest growth.






Governments use economic growth metrics to shape public policy and budgets, while policymakers use real GDP when determining interest rates, tax rates, and trade policies.


   Special Considerations  

The GDP growth rate changes during the four phases of the business cycle: peak, contraction, trough, and expansion. In an expanding economy, the GDP growth rate will be positive because businesses are growing and creating jobs for greater productivity.



A period of contraction will follow when businesses hold off on investing and hiring, which will result in consumers having less money to spend. If the growth rate turns negative, the country will be in recession.



GDP is calculated as the sum of public consumption, domestic investment, government spending, and net imports. It is possible for a country to be experiencing negative growth in one area but still experiencing net real economic growth. Some specific transactions are excluded from both nominal and real GDP.



Real economic growth only reports the sale of final products; goods in production (i.e. a vehicle that is partially assembled) are not counted. Real economic growth also excludes the sale of used goods, the sale of goods produced outside of the United States, financial transactions (i.e. stocks and bonds), and volunteer services.




How Do You Calculate the Real Economic Growth Rate?
There are two ways to calculate the real economic growth rate. Real GDP can be calculated by taking the difference between the most recent year's real GDP and the prior year's real GDP. Then, divide this difference by the prior year's real GDP. Alternatively, real GDP can be determined if nominal GDP and the prevailing inflation rate are known. Real GDP is calculated as nominal GDP less inflation.




What Is the Real GDP Growth Rate?
The annualized real GDP growth rate for the United States in the second quarter of 2023 was 2.1%.




What Is the Difference Between Nominal GDP and Real GDP?
Nominal GDP measures a nation's annual production of goods and services using actual market prices or values. Real GDP measures goods and services by adjusting for inflation. Both measurements are useful for evaluating a nation's financial health, though real GDP is generally a more accurate representation of underlying economic activity.




Why Is Real GDP Important?
Real GDP is informative of the size of the economy and the performance of recent economic activity. The real growth rate is often used as a performance indicator as it often provides better guidance on economic conditions due to actual activity as opposed to growth due to inflated prices.


   The Bottom Line  

The real GDP growth rate measures economic growth by measuring GDP from one period to the next, taking into consideration inflation. It is an indicator of the health of an economy and helps policymakers adjust fiscal and monetary policy in order to achieve economic objectives.
What Is the Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER)?  

The real effective exchange rate (REER) is the weighted average of a country's currency in relation to an index or basket of other major currencies. The weights are determined by comparing the relative trade balance of a country's currency against that of each country in the index.



An increase in a nation's REER is an indication that its exports are becoming more expensive and its imports are becoming cheaper. It is losing its trade competitiveness.





Key Takeaways

The real effective exchange rate (REER) compares a nation's currency value against the weighted average of the currencies of its major trading partners.It is an indicator of the international competitiveness of a nation in comparison with its trade partners.The formula is weighted to take into account the relative importance of each trading partner to the home country.An increasing REER indicates that a country is losing its competitive edge.A nation's nominal effective exchange rate (NEER), adjusted for inflation in the home country, equals its real effective exchange rate (REER).












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   How to Calculate the Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER)  

A nation's currency may be considered undervalued, overvalued, or in equilibrium with those of other nations that it trades with. A state of equilibrium means that demand and supply are equally balanced and prices will remain stable.



A country's REER measures how well that equilibrium is being held.



REER is determined by taking the average of the bilateral exchange rates between one nation and its trading partners and then weighting it to take into account the trade allocation of each partner.






The Bank for International Settlements website provides updated effective exchange rate indices on a daily and monthly basis.


  The Formula for REER Is  
















REER


=



CER


n



×



CER


n



×



CER


n



×


100
















where:
















CER = Country exchange rate







\begin{aligned} &\text{REER}=\text{CER}^n\times\text{CER}^n\times\text{CER}^n\times100\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{CER = Country exchange rate}\\ \end{aligned}


​REER=CERn×CERn×CERn×100where:CER = Country exchange rate​



Breaking down the formula:



The average of the exchange rates is calculated after assigning the weightings for each rate. For example, if a currency had a 60% weighting, the exchange rate would be raised to the power by 0.60. The same is done for each exchange rate and its respective weighting.Multiply all of the exchange rates.Then multiply the final result by 100 to create the scale or index.



Some calculations use bilateral exchange rates while other models use real exchange rates. The latter adjusts the exchange rate for inflation.



Regardless of the way in which REER is calculated, it is an average that indicates when a currency is overvalued in relation to one trading partner or undervalued in relation to another partner.


   What Does the Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) Tell You?  

A country's REER is an important measure when assessing its trade capabilities.



REER can be used to measure the equilibrium value of a country's currency, identify the underlying factors of a country's trade flow, and analyze the impact that other factors, such as competition and technological changes, have on a country and ultimately on the trade-weighted index.



For example, if the U.S. dollar exchange rate weakens against the euro, U.S. exports to Europe will become cheaper. European businesses or consumers buying U.S. goods need to convert their euros to dollars to buy our exports. If the dollar is weaker than the euro, it means Europeans can get more dollars for each euro. As a result, U.S. goods get cheaper due solely to the exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar.



The U.S. has a substantial trading relationship with Europe. Because of this, the euro to U.S. dollar exchange would have a larger weighting in the index. A big move in the euro exchange rate would impact the REER more than if another currency with a smaller weighting strengthened or weakened against the dollar.


   Example of Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER)  

Let's say the U.S. had a foreign trading relationship with only three parties: the eurozone, Great Britain, and Australia. That means the U.S. dollar has a trading relationship with the euro, the British pound, and the Australian dollar.



In this hypothetical example, the U.S. does 70% of its trading with the eurozone, 20% with Great Britain, and 10% with Australia. The basket of currencies in this case would also hold the same percentages, with the euro at 70%, the British pound at 20%, and the Australian dollar at 20%.



A move in the euro would have a greater impact on the basket than a move in the Australian dollar. If one of the exchange rates moved significantly but the weighted average of the basket didn't change, it could mean that the other currencies moved in the opposite direction, offsetting the move of the first currency.


   REER vs. Spot Exchange Rate  

A spot exchange rate is the current price to exchange one currency for another for delivery on the earliest possible value date. (The value date is the effective date for a financial transaction involving an asset that fluctuates in price.)



 Although the spot exchange rate is for delivery on the earliest date, the standard settlement date for most spot transactions is two business days after the transaction date.



The spot exchange rate, therefore, is a current market price. The REER is an indicator of the value of a currency in relation to its trading partners.


   Limitations of the Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER)  

Factors besides trade can impact the REER. The real effective exchange rate doesn't take into account price changes, tariffs, or other factors that may affect trade between nations. If prices are higher in one country compared with another, the trade might decrease in the country with higher prices, impacting its REER.



The weighting used in the REER calculation then has to be adjusted to reflect any changes in trade.



In addition, the central bank of each nation adjusts its monetary policy, which can lower or raise interest rates in the home country. The flow of money could increase to countries with higher rates as investors chase yield, thus strengthening the currency exchange rate.



The REER would be impacted, but it would have little to do with trade and more to do with the interest rate markets.






Economists use REER to evaluate a country's trade flow and analyze the impact that factors such as competition and technological changes are having on a country and its economy.


   What Is the Real Effective Change Rate?  

The real effective exchange rate is a measure of the relative strength of a nation's currency in comparison with those of the nations it trades with. It is used to judge whether the nation's currency is undervalued or overvalued or, ideally, fairly valued.


   How Do You Calculate Real Effective Exchange Rate?  

First, weigh each nation's exchange rate to reflect its share of the home country's foreign trade. Multiply all of the weighted exchange rates. Then multiply the total by 100. That is its REER.



Or, skip the mathematics and go to the Bank for International Settlements website for its updated effective exchange rate indices.


   What Is the Difference Between Real Exchange Rate and Real Effective Exchange Rate?  

The real exchange rate is the current price businesses and consumers will pay to buy a foreign product using their home currencies. For example, if the current U.S. exchange rate between the U.S. and Britain was $138 U.S. dollars for one pound, an American consumer would need $1.38 to buy one pound worth of goods.



When Americans exchange dollars for pounds, the amount they receive is based on the real exchange rate.


   What Is the Difference Between NEER and REER?  

The nominal effective exchange rate (NEER) and the real effective exchange rate (REER) are both indicators of a nation's competitiveness in relation to its trading partners.



NEER is the average rate at which one nation's currency is valued in comparison with a basket of other currencies, weighted for the percentage of trade that each currency represents to that nation.



The NEER can be adjusted to compensate for the inflation rate in the home country. That adjusted number is the REER.


   What Does a High REER Mean?  

An increase in a nation's REER means businesses and consumers have to pay more for the products they export, while their own people are paying less for the products that it imports. It is losing its trade competitiveness.
What Is Real Estate?  

Real estate is defined as the land and any permanent structures, like a home, or improvements attached to the land, whether natural or man-made.



Real estate is a form of real property. It differs from personal property, which is not permanently attached to the land, such as vehicles, boats, jewelry, furniture, and farm equipment.





Key Takeaways

Real estate is considered real property that includes land and anything permanently attached to it or built on it, whether natural or man-made.There are five main categories of real estate which include residential, commercial, industrial, raw land, and special use.Investing in real estate includes purchasing a home, rental property, or land.Indirect investment in real estate can be made via REITs or through pooled real estate investment.












   Understanding Real Estate  

The terms land, real estate, and real property are often used interchangeably, but there are distinctions.



Land refers to the earth's surface down to the center of the earth and upward to the airspace above, including the trees, minerals, and water. The physical characteristics of land include its immobility, indestructibility, and uniqueness, where each parcel of land differs geographically.



Real estate encompasses the land, plus any permanent man-made additions, such as houses and other buildings. Any additions or changes to the land that affects the property's value are called an improvement.



Once land is improved, the total capital and labor used to build the improvement represent a sizable fixed investment. Though a building can be razed, improvements like drainage, electricity, water and sewer systems tend to be permanent.



Real property includes the land and additions to the land plus the rights inherent to its ownership and usage.





Real Estate Agent

A real estate agent is a licensed professional who arranges real estate transactions, matching buyers and sellers and acting as their representatives in negotiations. 


   What Are Types of Real Estate?  

Residential real estate: Any property used for residential purposes. Examples include single-family homes, condos, cooperatives, duplexes, townhouses, and multifamily residences.



Commercial real estate: Any property used exclusively for business purposes, such as apartment complexes, gas stations, grocery stores, hospitals, hotels, offices, parking facilities, restaurants, shopping centers, stores, and theaters.



Industrial real estate: Any property used for manufacturing, production, distribution, storage, and research and development.



Land: Includes undeveloped property, vacant land, and agricultural lands such as farms, orchards, ranches, and timberland.



Special purpose: Property used by the public, such as cemeteries, government buildings, libraries, parks, places of worship, and schools.


   The Economics of Real Estate  

Real estate is a critical driver of economic growth in the U.S., and housing starts, the number of new residential construction projects in any given month, released by the U.S. Census Bureau, is a key economic indicator. The report includes building permits, housing starts, and housing completions data, for single-family homes, homes with 2-4 units, and multifamily buildings with five or more units, such as apartment complexes



Investors and analysts keep a close eye on housing starts because the numbers can provide a general sense of economic direction. Moreover, the types of new housing starts can give clues about how the economy is developing.



If housing starts indicate fewer single-family and more multifamily starts, it could signal an impending supply shortage for single-family homes, driving up home prices. The following chart shows 20 years of housing starts, from Jan. 1, 2000, to Feb. 1, 2020.















20 years of housing starts. Source: Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.


   How to Invest in Real Estate  

Some of the most common ways to invest in real estate include homeownership, investment or rental properties, and house flipping. One type of real estate investor is a real estate wholesaler who contracts a home with a seller, then finds an interested party to buy it. Real estate wholesalers generally find and contract distressed properties but don't do any renovations or additions.



The earnings from investment in real estate are garnered from revenue from rent or leases, and appreciation of the real estate's value. According to ATTOM, which oversees the nation's premier property database, the year-end 2021 U.S. home sales report shows that home sellers nationwide realized a profit of $94,092, a 45.3%return on investment, up 45% from $64,931 in 2020, and up 71% from $55,000 two years ago.



Real estate is dramatically affected by its location and factors such as employment rates, the local economy, crime rates, transportation facilities, school quality, municipal services, and property taxes can affect the value of the real estate.





Pros

Offers steady income
Offers capital appreciation
Diversifies portfolio
Can be bought with leverage



Cons

Is usually illiquid
Influenced by highly local factors
Requires big initial capital outlay
May require active management and expertise






Investing in real estate indirectly is done through a real estate investment trust (REIT), a company that holds a portfolio of income-producing real estate. There are several types of REITs, including equity, mortgage, and hybrid REITs, and are classified based on how their shares are bought and sold, such as publicly-traded REITs, public non-traded REITs, and private REITs.



The most popular way to invest in a REIT is to buy shares that are publicly traded on an exchange. The shares trade like any other security traded on an exchange such as stocks and makes REITs very liquid and transparent. Income from REITs is earned through dividend payments and appreciation of the shares. In addition to individual REITs, investors can trade in real estate mutual funds and real estate exchange-traded funds (ETFs).



Another option for investing in real estate is via mortgage-backed securities (MBS), such as through the Vanguard Mortgage-Backed Securities ETF (VMBS), made up of federal agency-backed MBS that have minimum pools of $1 billion and minimum maturity of one year. or the iShares MBS ETF (MBB) which focuses on fixed-rate mortgage securities and tracks the Bloomberg U.S. MBS Index. Its holdings include bonds issued or guaranteed by government-sponsored enterprises such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.





What We Like

Liquidity
Diversification
Steady dividends
Risk-adjusted returns



What We Don't Like

Low growth/low capital appreciation
Not tax-advantaged
Subject to market risk
High fees









Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). 




What Are the Best Ways to Finance a Real Estate Investment?
Real estate is commonly purchased with cash or financed with a mortgage through a private or commercial lender.




What Is Real Estate Development?
Real estate development, or property development, includes activities that range from renovating existing buildings to the purchase of raw land and the sale of developed land or parcels to others.




What Careers are Common in the Real Estate Industry?
Common careers found in the real estate industry include leasing agent, foreclosure specialist, title examiner, home inspector, real estate appraiser, real estate agent, and mortgage broker.
What Is a Real Estate Agent?  

A real estate agent is a licensed professional who arranges real estate transactions, putting buyers and sellers together and acting as their representative in negotiations. Real estate agents usually are compensated completely by a commission—a percentage of the property’s purchase price—so their income depends on their ability to close a deal. In almost every state a real estate agent must work for or be affiliated with a real estate broker (an individual or a brokerage firm), who is more experienced and licensed to a higher degree.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas





Key Takeaways

A real estate agent is a licensed professional who represents buyers or sellers in real estate transactions.A real estate agent usually works on commission, being paid a percentage of the property’s sale price.In most states a real estate agent must work through a real estate broker, firm, or fellow professional with more experience and a specialized license.


   How a Real Estate Agent Works  

Real estate agents usually specialize in either commercial or residential real estate. Either way, they perform different duties, depending on whether they work for the buyer or the seller. Agents who work for the seller, also known as listing agents, advise clients on how to price the property and prepare it for a sale, including providing tips on last-minute improvements that can boost the price or encourage speedy offers. Seller agents market the property through listing services, networking, and advertisements.



Agents who work for the buyer search for available properties that match the buyer’s price range and wish list. These agents often look at past sales data on comparable properties to help prospective buyers come up with a fair bid.



Agents act as go-betweens for the principal parties, carrying offers and counteroffers and other questions back and forth. Once a bid is accepted, agents on both sides often continue to work, helping their clients through the paperwork, conveying communications, advising on inspections and moving, and generally shepherding the deal through to closing.



It’s important for consumers to understand whether a real estate agent represents the buyer, the seller, or both parties; obviously, the agent’s loyalty can greatly affect several details of the transaction, including the final price. State laws regulate whether an agent can represent both parties in a real estate transaction, technically known as “dual agency.” Agents must disclose their representation, so that buyers and sellers are aware of any conflicts of interest.






Dual agency, in which one person represents both the buyer and seller in a real estate transaction, is illegal in eight states: Alaska, Colorado, Florida, Kansas, Maryland, Oklahoma, Texas, and Vermont.﻿﻿


   Real Estate Agents’ Compensation  

Traditionally, an agent is paid a commission that is a percentage of the property’s sale price. The more the house sells for, the more money an agent makes. However, with online listings allowing consumers to do much of the shopping on their own without help from an agent, the traditional payment structure is changing.



Some brokerages charge a lower commission for more expensive houses, and some handle the entire transaction for a flat fee that’s much less than a regular commission. Other companies offer a fee-for-service pricing structure that lets sellers pay only for certain parts of the sale process, such as adding the property to a multiple listing service (MLS).






You may have heard people use the terms “real estate agent,” “real estate broker,” and “realtor” interchangeably. While overlap among the three definitely exists, there are key differences.


   Real Estate Agent vs. Real Estate Broker  

The exact definitions of and distinctions between a real estate agent and a real estate broker vary among states. Generally, however, anyone who earns a basic real estate license (which involves taking a certain number of accredited courses and passing an exam) can be called a real estate agent. A real estate agent is essentially a salesperson, qualified to help consumers buy or sell a property.



A real estate broker is a step up the professional food chain. Brokers have additional training and education that have qualified them to pass a higher licensing exam; most states also require them to have a certain amount of recent experience as an active real estate agent. Brokers handle the technical aspects of the real estate transaction. A client signs a contract with a brokerage, not the individual agent. In many states brokers' additional certification authorizes them to handle other legal and financial aspects of a deal, such as handling the earnest money deposit and establishing the escrow account.﻿﻿



Brokers typically own a firm or a franchise. They can be solo practitioners, but they must attain another higher-level license if they want to hire agents or other brokers to work under them. As mentioned earlier, a real estate agent usually cannot work alone but instead must operate through a real estate broker; the exception is in states such as Colorado and New Mexico, which mandate that every real estate professional be licensed as a broker.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿ Usually, though, agents work for brokers and split commissions with them.


   Real Estate Agent vs. Realtor  

So every real estate broker is a real estate agent (or has been), but not every real estate agent is a broker. How do realtors fit into the equation?



A realtor is a member of the National Association of Realtors (NAR), a trade association. Both agents and brokers can be realtors, along with property managers, appraisers, and other real estate industry professionals. Realtors are expected to be experts in their field and must follow the NAR’s code of ethics, which requires agents to uphold specific duties to clients and customers, the public, and other realtors. In addition to NAR, realtors must belong to a state or local real estate association or board.﻿﻿



All realtors are real estate agents or brokers (or something related), but not all agents or brokers are realtors. As of July 2020, NAR reported that it had nearly 1.4 million members. Roughly two-thirds of them held real estate agent licenses.﻿﻿
What Is a Real Estate Investment Group (REIG)?  

A real estate investment group (REIG) refers to a business that focuses the majority of its efforts and capital on real estate. In search of profits, real estate investment groups may choose to buy, renovate, sell, or finance properties. Real estate investment groups commonly buy out multi-unit properties, selling units to investors while taking responsibility for administration and maintenance of the property.



Typically, real estate investment groups either do not elect or do not qualify to be a real estate investment trust (REIT).





Key Takeaways

A real estate investment group (REIG) can be any entity with multiple partners that focuses the majority of its business on real estate. In a typical real estate investment group, a company buys or builds a set of apartment blocks or condos, then allows investors to purchase them through the company, thereby joining the group.REIGs do not qualify as REITs and are not subject to any specific limitations or disclosures.REIGs can be structured in many ways, though most are organized as partnerships that pass-through income reported on K-1 tax documents.One of the benefits of REIGs is the pooled capital available for investment.


   Understanding Real Estate Investment Groups (REIGs)  

Real estate investment groups are comprised of multiple partners or private shareholders. Having multiple sources for capital investments provides a greater pool of capital and a greater ability to invest more broadly.



Real estate investment groups focus the majority of their business on real estate, but they are not necessarily subject to any specific real estate entity status or beholden to any specific type of operations. As such, they have flexibility to structure their business in several ways, and they can make real estate investments as desired.



Also, real estate investment groups may engage in other business activities such as property financing, flipping properties, leasing properties to clients or property management companies for a portion of rental income, or selling units of a property while maintaining overarching control. In general, there are no specific limitations on the activities a real estate investment group can be involved in. Many REIGs will market themselves as such to make it easier for investors to identify them.






The goal of a REIG is to provide monthly cash flows from the investments made in real estate holdings.


   REIG Investing  

Investment real estate can be attractive because of its multi-dimensional return potential. REIGs seek to take advantage of a multitude of investing opportunities by creating a portfolio of property investments.



In general, several ways exist for REIGs to produce returns. They may choose to invest in apartment buildings, rental homes, commercial buildings, or commercial units. It may earn income from mortgage lending, rental properties, or property management fees. REIGs often appeal to high-net-worth investors who look to invest directly in real estate but do not wish to assume full property management responsibilities.



REIGs also attract investors who manage single rental properties on their own or who are into flipping houses. The REIG allows such an individual investor to buy one or more properties through an operating company. The operating company collectively manages all of the units and takes care of marketing them. In exchange, the operating company takes a percentage of the monthly rents.






Diversification might help prevent significant losses during economic downturns and real estate crashes.



Overall, one of the greatest advantages for REIGs is the pooled capital they obtain from a multi-partnership structure or a corporate equity unit-based capital structure. REIG partners typically must put up more cash as an initial investment than other real estate investment opportunities; however, they typically see greater returns.


   REIG Structuring  

Real estate investment groups (REIGs) and real estate investment trusts (REITs) are often used interchangeably despite their different meanings. REITs, established by Congress in 1960, create financial statements and follow applicable tax laws. REIGs, on the other hand, can choose to take on any entity structure, with the two most common being partnerships and corporations.


  Partnership  

A partnership is a business owned by two or more people who share in profits, losses, and debts. Partners take stakes in the business proportionate to their investment. Under the U.S. tax code, partnerships are not taxed. Rather, partnerships pass through all of their income to the partners and report this income on a K-1. Partners receiving a K-1 must individually file their partnership income on Form 1040 if they are an individual or on Form 1120 if they are a corporation.



Depending on the structure of the partnership, partners may or may not have involvement in the management of the business. Partnership agreements detail the full provisions of the business, including minimum investments, fees, distributions, partner voting, and more. Some partnerships employ a collaborative member-structured forum for investment decisions, while others leave the core management of the business to a few executives. Generally, the partnership management team sources and identifies deals before investing partner capital per the partnership agreement. 



Some real estate investment partnerships accept investments from $5,000 to $50,000. While that may not be enough to purchase a unit, the partnership might pool money from several investors to fund a property that is shared and co-owned.


  Corporation  

Forming a corporation, public or private, is an option for any business. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) governs public corporations, whereas SEC Regulation D governs private corporations. Public companies must provide regular, quarterly, transparent financial statement reporting. Moreover, nearly any entity other than sole proprietors can elect to be taxed as a corporation if they meet the requirements.



Incorporating a business allows a company to sell equity shares of the business. Equity shares comprise a portion of the company’s total equity. Public equity shares vary in value based on their public trading value; alternatively, private shares are valued privately.



An executive management team manages corporations. However, shares can be structured with different voting rights, which gives equity investors some say in the company’s overall management.


   Crowdfunding  

Online real estate crowdfunding platforms can be known as a type of real estate investment group. These platforms are structured as partnerships and pass-through all income to investing partners with reporting on a K-1.



The emergence of real estate crowdfunding platforms makes it easier for both accredited and non-accredited investors to invest in real estate. Fundrise is one example of a popular real estate crowdfunding platform that offers investors the opportunity to invest in debt capital financing or take some equity in real estate properties.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Real Estate Investment Groups  

Real estate investment groups diversify their investments to maximize profits. Pooled resources allow for multiple investments, often generating larger returns.



When run by experienced professionals, the group's investments can be diversified well enough to manage risk and reduce vitality. REIGs also benefit from having few limits on what activities they can engage in and how they operate.



Some real estate investment groups have formal agreements, stipulating when and how members can access their money. So, someone wanting to withdraw from the group may not be able to recoup their investment or share of the profits immediately.



Also, REIGs often have bylaws that cover the rules and regulations and set fees. These fees can be costly, especially when profits are slim or when losses occur. Some groups charge fees annually or more frequently. Lastly, the success of the group is largely dependent on the people who make the decisions. If governed by unskilled and inexperienced people, the risk may outweigh the reward.





Pros

Unrestricted investment opportunities
Pooled capital for ventures
Diversified portfolio for maximum profits



Cons

Group fees may erode profits
REIG agreement may prevent free access to funds
Failure is possible with an unskilled and inexperienced group





   REIGs vs. REITs  

A real estate investment trust (REIT) is created when a corporation (or trust) is formed to use outside investors’ money to purchase, operate, and sell income-producing properties. REITs are bought and sold on major exchanges, just like stocks and exchange-traded funds (ETFs).



To qualify as a REIT, the entity must pay out 90% of its taxable profits in the form of dividends to shareholders. By doing this, REITs avoid paying corporate income tax, whereas a regular company would be taxed on its profits, thus eating into the returns it could distribute to its shareholders. REITs are highly liquid because they are exchange-traded. In other words, you won’t need a realtor and a title transfer to help you cash out your investment. In practice, REITs are a more formalized version of a real estate investment group.



Thus, a REIT is more highly regulated and has a more specific business and operating structure than a REIG.


   Real Estate Investment Group FAQs  
  Where Can I Find Real Estate Investment Groups?  

Search the internet for real estate investment groups or connect with investors via social networking sites, such as LinkedIn, to find groups of interest. As a beginner, it might be beneficial to join a local group to remain closely connected to the group and well informed on its activities and progress.


  How Can I Join a Real Estate Investment Group?  

You can join a real estate investment group or start your own. Professional networking groups and websites, such as LinkedIn, are good starting points, and joining a group may be as simple as signing an agreement and paying dues.


  How Much Money Do I Need to Join a Real Estate Investment Group?  

How much money you need to join a real estate investment group varies and largely depends on the group. REIGs often have bylaws, which each member must follow. Furthermore, each group sets its own capital requirements, if any, and fees, which could be due annually or more frequently.


  What Should I Look for in a Real Estate Investment Group?  

Look for a real estate investment group with a mission-aligned to your goals. Review the history of the group, as well as their performance. Not every venture must be successful, but there should be enough successes to make it an attractive option. Also, ensure that the decision-makers are knowledgeable, experienced, and skilled.


  How Do You Start a Real Estate Investment Group?  

Before starting, conduct thorough research on what is needed to start a real estate investment group and if it's feasible for you to do so. Consult real estate professionals or others who operate REIGs to get an understanding of what's involved and what to expect. Create a plan on how you want your REIG to operate (e.g., rules, fees, and meetings) and what types of real estate you want to invest in; then solicit members, including those who are experienced and skilled in real estate investments. Once the group is formed, market to investors.


  How Much Money Do You Need to Start a Real Estate Investment Group?  

Founding partners of a real estate investment group will likely be the largest investors, contributing between $5,000 and $50,000. What is needed to start an investment group depends on how the group will be structured and what type of real estate ventures are sought.


   The Bottom Line  

Investing in real estate can be lucrative but may be difficult when done alone. Real estate investment groups provide an opportunity to invest in real estate without solely bearing the commitment and being the source of funding. If wanting to join a real estate investment club, first conduct thorough research; then, identify the group that is closely aligned to your goals.
What Is a Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT)?  

A real estate investment trust (REIT) is a company that owns, operates, or finances income-generating real estate.



Modeled after mutual funds, REITs pool the capital of numerous investors. This makes it possible for individual investors to earn dividends from real estate investments—without having to buy, manage, or finance any properties themselves.





Key Takeaways

A real estate investment trust (REIT) is a company that owns, operates, or finances income-producing properties.REITs generate a steady income stream for investors but offer little in the way of capital appreciation.Most REITs are publicly traded like stocks, which makes them highly liquid (unlike physical real estate investments).REITs invest in most real estate property types, including apartment buildings, cell towers, data centers, hotels, medical facilities, offices, retail centers, and warehouses.












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   How REITs Work  

Congress established REITs in 1960 as an amendment to the Cigar Excise Tax Extension. The provision allows investors to buy shares in commercial real estate portfolios—something that was previously available only to wealthy individuals and through large financial intermediaries.



Properties in a REIT portfolio may include apartment complexes, data centers, healthcare facilities, hotels, infrastructure—in the form of fiber cables, cell towers, and energy pipelines—office buildings, retail centers, self-storage, timberland, and warehouses.



In general, REITs specialize in a specific real estate sector. However, diversified and specialty REITs may hold different types of properties in their portfolios, such as a REIT that consists of both office and retail properties. 



Many REITs are publicly traded on major securities exchanges, and investors can buy and sell them like stocks throughout the trading session. These REITs typically trade under substantial volume and are considered very liquid instruments. 






   What Qualifies as a REIT?  

Most REITs have a straightforward business model: The REIT leases space and collects rents on the properties, then distributes that income as dividends to shareholders. Mortgage REITs don't own real estate, but finance real estate, instead. These REITs earn income from the interest on their investments.



To qualify as a REIT, a company must comply with certain provisions in the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). These requirements include to primarily own income-generating real estate for the long term and distribute income to shareholders. Specifically, a company must meet the following requirements to qualify as a REIT:



Invest at least 75% of total assets in real estate, cash, or U.S. TreasuriesDerive at least 75% of gross income from rents, interest on mortgages that finance real property, or real estate salesPay a minimum of 90% of taxable income in the form of shareholder dividends each yearBe an entity that's taxable as a corporationBe managed by a board of directors or trusteesHave at least 100 shareholders after its first year of existence Have no more than 50% of its shares held by five or fewer individuals






It's estimated that REITs collectively hold about $3.5 trillion in gross assets; publicly traded equity REITs account for $2.5 trillion.


   Types of REITs  

There are three types of REITs:



Equity REITs. Most REITs are equity REITs, which own and manage income-producing real estate. Revenues are generated primarily through rents (not by reselling properties).
Mortgage REITs. Mortgage REITs lend money to real estate owners and operators either directly through mortgages and loans, or indirectly through the acquisition of mortgage-backed securities. Their earnings are generated primarily by the net interest margin—the spread between the interest they earn on mortgage loans and the cost of funding these loans. This model makes them potentially sensitive to interest rate increases.
Hybrid REITs. These REITs use the investment strategies of both equity and mortgage REITs. 









REIT Types Comparison


Type of REIT
Holdings




 Equity
 Owns and operates income-producing real estate


 Mortgage
 Holds mortgages on real property


 Hybrid
 Owns properties and holds mortgages






REITs can be further classified based on how their shares are bought and held:



Publicly Traded REITs. Shares of publicly traded REITs are listed on a national securities exchange, where they are bought and sold by individual investors. They are regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Public Non-Traded REITs. These REITs are also registered with the SEC but don’t trade on national securities exchanges. As a result, they are less liquid than publicly traded REITs. Still, they tend to be more stable because they’re not subject to market fluctuations.
Private REITs. These REITs aren’t registered with the SEC and don’t trade on national securities exchanges. In general, private REITs can be sold only to institutional investors.


   How to Invest in REITs  

You can invest in publicly traded REITs—as well as REIT mutual funds and REIT exchange-traded funds (ETFs)—by purchasing shares through a broker. You can buy shares of a non-traded REIT through a broker or financial advisor who participates in the non-traded REIT’s offering.



REITs are also included in a growing number of defined-benefit and defined-contribution investment plans. An estimated 145 million U.S. investors own REITs either directly or through their retirement savings and other investment funds, according to Nareit, a Washington, D.C.-based REIT research firm.





503,000

As of 2022, REITs collectively hold more than half-a-million individual properties.


   Pros and Cons of Investing in REITs  

REITs can play an important part in an investment portfolio because they can offer a strong, stable annual dividend and the potential for long-term capital appreciation. REIT's total return performance for the last 20 years has outperformed the S&P 500 Index, other indices, and the rate of inflation. As with all investments, REITs have their advantages and disadvantages.



On the plus side, REITs are easy to buy and sell, as most trade on public exchanges—a feature that mitigates some of the traditional drawbacks of real estate. Performance-wise, REITs offer attractive risk-adjusted returns and stable cash flow. Also, a real estate presence can be good for a portfolio because it provides diversification and dividend-based income—and the dividends are often higher than you can achieve with other investments.



As a bonus, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 allows taxpayers to take advantage of the qualified business income (QBI) deduction. The deduction is the QBI plus 20% of qualified REIT dividends or 20% of the taxable income minus net capital gains, whichever is less.



On the downside, REITs don't offer much in terms of capital appreciation. As part of their structure, they must pay 90% of their income back to investors. So, only 10% of taxable income can be reinvested back into the REIT to buy new holdings. Other negatives are that REIT dividends are taxed as regular income, and some REITs have high management and transaction fees.





Pros

Liquidity
Diversification
Transparency
Stable cash flow through dividends
Attractive risk-adjusted returns



Cons

Low growth
Dividends are taxed as regular income
Subject to market risk
Potential for high management and transaction fees





   REIT Fraud  

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) recommends that investors should be wary of anyone who tries to sell REITs that aren't registered with the SEC. It advises that "You can verify the registration of both publicly traded and non-traded REITs through the SEC's EDGAR system. You can also use EDGAR to review a REIT's annual and quarterly reports as well as any offering prospectus."



It's also a good idea to check out the broker or investment advisor who recommends the REIT. The SEC has a free search tool that allows you to look up if an investment professional is licensed and registered.


   Real-World Example of a REIT  

Another consideration when choosing REITs is to look at the sectors of the real estate market that are hot. Which booming sectors of the economy, in general, can be tapped into via real estate? As an example, healthcare is one of the fastest-growing industries in the U.S.—especially in the growth of medical buildings, outpatient care centers, eldercare facilities, and retirement communities.



Several REITs focus on this sector. Healthpeak Properties (PEAK)—formerly HCP— is one example. As of April 2022, it had a market cap of nearly US $18.9 billion, with some 4 million shares traded daily. Its portfolio focuses on three core asset classes: life sciences facilities, medical offices, and senior housing, owning interests in more than 615 properties.




What Does REIT Stand for?
REIT stands for "Real Estate Investment Trust". A REIT is organized as a partnership, corporation, trust, or association that invests directly in real estate through the purchase of properties or by buying up mortgages. REITs issue shares that trade stock exchange and are bought and sold like ordinary stocks. In order to be considered a REIT, the company must invest at least 75% of its assets in real estate and derive at least 75% of its revenues from real estate-related activities.




Do REITs Have to Pay Dividends?
By law and IRS regulation, REITs must pay out 90% or more of their taxable profits to shareholders in the form of dividends. As a result, REIT companies are often exempt from most corporate income tax. Shareholders of REITs who receive dividends are taxed as if they are ordinary dividends.




What Is a Paper Clip REIT?
A "paper clip REIT" increases the tax advantages afforded to a REIT while also allowing it to operate properties that such trusts normally cannot run. It is so-named because it involves two different entities that are "clipped" together via an agreement where one entity owns the properties and the other manages them. The paper clip REIT entails stricter regulatory oversight since there can be conflicts of interest and, as a result, this form of REIT is uncommon. It is similar but more flexible in structure to a "stapled REIT".
What Is a Real Estate Limited Partnership (RELP)?  

A real estate limited partnership (RELP) is a group of investors who pool their money to invest in property purchasing, development, or leasing. It is one of several forms of real estate investment group (REIG). Under its limited partnership (LP) status, a RELP has a general partner who assumes full liability and one or more limited partners who are liable only up to the amount they contribute.



The general partner is usually a corporation, an experienced property manager, or a real estate development firm. The limited partners are outside investors who provide financing in exchange for an investment return.



Under U.S. tax code, partnerships are not taxed. Rather, partnerships do a so-called pass-through, sending all of their income to the partners and reporting on form K-1. Partners receiving a K-1 must individually file their partnership income on Form 1040 if they are an individual or on Form 1120 if they are a corporation.





Key Takeaways

Real estate limited partnerships (RELPs) are LPs organized to invest primarily in real estate.Limited partners are generally hands-off investors while the general manager takes on day-to-day responsibilities.RELPs can offer high returns, with correspondingly high risks.RELPs may provide certain tax benefits, as they pass income through to individual partners.


   Understanding Real Estate Limited Partnerships (RELPs)  

A RELP provides individuals with the opportunity to invest in a diversified portfolio of real estate investments. RELPs are but one of several options available to those looking for real estate investment exposure. They also include real estate investment trusts (REITs), managed real estate-focused investment funds, and other real estate portfolio options. A RELP may provide returns that beat other options, while simultaneously carrying comparably higher risk.



Depending on the structure of the LP, partners may or may not be involved in the management of the business. Partnership agreements detail the full provisions of the business, including minimum investments, fees, distributions, partner voting, and more. Some partnerships employ a collaborative-forum type of structure for investment decisions, while others leave the core management of the business to a few executives. Generally, the management team sources and identifies deals before investing any of the group's capital. 



RELPs are marketed with detailed partnership agreements that define the terms of the entity and the investment opportunity overall. They generally target high-net-worth individuals and institutional investors. Some require accredited investor status for limited partnership status.


   Special Considerations  

Many RELPs have a narrowly defined focus: they may provide the business structure for construction of a residential neighborhood, a shopping center, or a business plaza. They often specialize in a real estate niche like retirement developments or high-value commercial properties. Some real estate investment partnerships accept investments of $5,000 to $50,000. That's not enough to purchase a unit, but the partnership will pool money from several investors to fund a property that is shared and co-owned



RELPs may have high returns and high risks, making due diligence important for prospective investors. The terms of the agreement may require the limited partner to commit to a lump sum contribution, a contribution schedule over time, or to contributions as called upon.



Notably, funds invested in a limited partnership are usually illiquid. The investor can't cash out at any time.






There may be flexibility for various business activities within the portfolio. A RELP might directly invest in real estate properties, issue credit for real estate borrowers, or participate in a collaborative business deal. 


   Partners' Roles in a RELP  

The general partner usually has a vested interest in the partnership overall and provides a portion of the capital. General partners have a direct role in the management of the business with designees often serving on the board of directors and involved in the day-to-day management of the business. Overall, general partners hold active decision-making authority.



LPs have limited liability, and it usually comes with limited influence and involvement in the entity’s governance. Some entities set up advisory boards or other means of communication to encourage the insights and participation of limited partners. Generally, limited partners are hands-off investors.



Limited partners receive dividend distributions along with pass-through income annually which constitutes part of their return. Many limited partnerships have a fixed-term lifespan so that partners receive their principal at a specified maturity date.


   Taxes and RELPs  

As with any partnership, a RELP is not required to pay taxes. The net income or losses are passed through to the partners annually.



This requires the partnership to file a Form 1065 informational return with the Internal Revenue Service and to report all distributions of income through individual partner K-1s. All of the partners in the business receive distributions throughout the year and a distribution of income annually.



The RELP is responsible for providing each partner with a K-1 which details the income they have received for the year. Partners are then required to report their income individually as appropriate.






RELPs do not pay taxes directly. Net income or losses are passed along to investors, who are responsible for tax reporting.
What Is a Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit (REMIC)?  

The term "real estate mortgage investment conduit" (REMIC) refers to a special purpose vehicle (SPV) or debt instrument that pools mortgage loans together and issues mortgage-backed securities (MBSs).





Key Takeaways

A real estate mortgage investment conduit (REMIC) is a special purpose vehicle that is used to pool mortgage loans and issue mortgage-backed securities.REMICs were first authorized by the enactment of the Tax Reform Act of 1986.A real estate mortgage investment conduit may be organized as a partnership, a trust, a corporation, or an association and is exempt from federal taxes.


   Understanding Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits (REMICs)  

REMICs are complex investments that generate income for issuers and investors. Mortgage pools are generally broken up into tranches, repackaged, and marketed to investors as individual securities. REMICs can take on several different forms and are generally deemed pass-through entities. As such, they are exempt from being taxed directly.



Real estate mortgage investment conduits (REMICs) were first authorized by the enactment of the Tax Reform Act of 1986. They hold commercial and residential mortgages in trust and issue interests in these securitized mortgages to investors. They are considered to be a safe option for investors who are averse to risk.



REMICs piece together individual mortgages into pools based on risk and maturity, just like collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs). They are divided into bonds or other securities that are then sold to investors. These securities are traded on the secondary mortgage market.



Some of the industry's most prominent issuers of real estate mortgage investment conduits include Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These companies are backed by the federal government. Although they don't actually issue mortgages, they do guarantee home loans issued by other lenders in the secondary market. Other REMIC issuers include mortgage lenders and insurance companies, as well as savings institutions.






Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are some of the more prominent issuers of REMICs.



REMICs may be organized as partnerships, trusts, corporations, or associations and are federally tax-exempt entities. Investors who own these securities, though, are still subject to individual income taxation. Tax laws prevented REMICs from making modifications to their mortgage loans. As such, the entity could lose its tax-exempt status if a loan within its pool is exchanged for another loan. That's because federal regulations require loans in a given pool to be constant. In other words, the loans cannot be significantly modified or exchanged for different loans with new terms.


   Changes to REMICs  

Several changes were either proposed or made to protect the structure and tax-exempt status of REMICs.



Congress introduced the Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit Improvement Act in 2009 to ease restrictions on commercial real estate loans securitized by REMICs. Owners of troubled properties with commercial loans weren't able to make changes to their assets because their plans would change the value of the collateral that secured the loan.



The proposed law would allow property owners with commercial loans securitized by REMICs to make improvements and enhancements that would make their properties more attractive to the market. The legislation included a declaration that property modifications under such terms would not be regarded as prohibited transactions as outlined by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).



The interest in the REMIC would continue to be treated as regular interest and proceeds that were generated by modifications to the property would be handled the same as if received through qualified mortgages.



The Act was referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, but hasn't moved any further.



The federal government provided some relief for people with commercial and residential loans suffering from hardships due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Homeowners unable to make payments were granted forbearance, first under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, which was signed by former President Donald Trump in 2020, and then again when the Biden administration extended the provisions.



Because the relief would ultimately change the structure of these loans, it would have an effect on how REMICs are structured, too. The IRS has ensured that these investments and their issuers will remain safe from any tax implications if borrowers take advantage of these emergency measures.


   Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit (REMIC) vs. Collateralized Mortgage Obligation (CMO)  

The industry commonly considers REMICs to be CMOS, which are a series of mortgages that are bundled together and sold to investors as investments. But there are some distinctions between the two.



CMOs exist within REMICs, although CMOs are separate legal entities for tax and legal purposes. A REMIC, on the other hand, is exempt from federal tax. But that's only on the income investors collect from the underlying mortgages at the corporate level. Any income generated and paid out to investors is taxable, using Form 1066 when filing a REMIC.


   Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit (REMIC) vs. Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT)  

Both REMICs and real estate investment trusts (REITs) invest in real estate in some form or another, but while REMICs pool mortgage loans and sell them off as investments to investors, REITs are a whole different ball game.



REITs are companies that own and operate a portfolio of income-generating properties, such as office and retail space, condominiums, and mixed-use properties. Investors can purchase shares in REITs that are traded on exchanges just like stocks. Companies lease or rent out their properties and that income is then paid out to investors as dividends.



Just like REMICs, though, REITs aren't taxed. But investors must report any earnings from these investments on their annual tax returns, which means they are taxed at their own tax rate.
What Is a Real Estate Operating Company (REOC)?  

A real estate operating company (REOC) is a publicly-traded company that actively invests in properties—generally commercial real estate. Unlike real estate investment trusts (REITs), REOCs reinvest the money they earn back into their business and are subject to higher corporate taxes than REITs.





Key Takeaways

A real estate operating company (REOC) engages in real estate investments and trades on a public exchange.REOCs can reinvest their earnings back into the business rather than distribute them to unitholders the same way REITs are compelled to do.REOCs have the potential for greater growth prospects than REITs but they might not generate as much immediate income.


   Understanding Real Estate Operating Companies (REOCs)  

Investors have a number of options if they wish to diversify their holdings and add real estate to their portfolios. Purchasing real property is one option, but that can come at a big cost and immense risk. Investors who buy properties—residential and/or commercial real estate—must be able to bear the financial burden of purchasing and maintaining properties in addition to the risks and uncertainties that come with the housing market.



REOCs can shield investors from some of the risks that come with holding real property. Owning a few shares in one of these companies gives you immediate exposure to several different types of real estate that are carefully selected and then managed by a team of experts.



The majority of their holdings are commercial properties such as retail stores, hotels, office buildings, shopping malls, and multifamily homes. Many REOCs also invest in and manage properties. For instance, a company may sell or lease out units of a multifamily home or office building to different people but still maintain and earn money from common spaces such as parking lots and lobbies.



Shares in REOCs are traded on exchanges just like any other publicly-traded company. Investors can purchase shares through their broker-dealer or another financial professional. Although they eliminate the risk of holding physical property, REOCs are subject to certain market risks including interest rate risk, housing market risks, liquidity risk, and credit risk.






REOCs pay federal taxes because they are not required to distribute their earnings to shareholders.


   REOCs vs. REITs  

Although they both invest in real estate holdings, there are functional and strategic differences between REOCs and REITs. REITs own and operate properties that generate income through rents or leases. These may be residential dwellings, hotels, and even infrastructure properties such as pipelines and cell phone towers. Investors can choose to buy shares in three different types of REITs—equity REITs, mortgage REITs, and hybrid REITs.



REOCs are structured in a way that allows them to reinvest their earnings back into the company rather than distribute them to shareholders. As such, they can expand their holdings by purchasing new properties or put money back into existing holdings to improve them. They may also use earnings to buy new properties for the express purpose to sell them back at a later date. Being able to reinvest their earnings means REOCs get no favorable tax treatment, so they pay higher taxes than REITs.



In order to qualify as a REIT, companies must meet certain requirements. These include—among others—investing a minimum of 75% of their assets in real estate and distributing at least 90% of their earnings to unitholders. In exchange, REITs get favorable tax treatment. Corporate taxes for REITs are far lower than those imposed on REOCs because they are exempt from federal taxation.



REITs tend to invest and purchase properties that limit the amount of risk associated with certain commercial properties because of the special tax status they enjoy. Their investment strategies tend to be for the long term. This means REITs don't purchase investment properties in order to sell them in the future the same way some REOCs do.
What Is Real Estate Owned (REO)?  

The term real estate owned (REO) refers to a lender-owned property that is not sold at a foreclosure auction. Properties become REO when owners default and the bank repossesses them and tries to sell them. The lender, which is often a bank, takes ownership of a foreclosed property when it fails to sell at the amount sought to cover the loan. These properties generally come at a steep discount but may require extensive repairs.





Key Takeaways

Real estate owned is the term for a property owned by a lender because it failed to sell in a foreclosure auction after the borrower defaulted on their mortgage.Banks attempt to sell their REOs using a real estate agent or by listing the properties online.REO specialists may be involved to try to get more exposure for the properties.REOs are often sold at a discount by banks and other lendersThey are usually sold as is and are often in disrepair.


   Understanding Real Estate Owned (REO) Properties  

When a borrower defaults on their mortgage, the pre-foreclosure period often involves either a real estate short sale or a public auction. If neither goes through, the foreclosure process can end with the lender taking ownership of the property. Lenders may be banks, non-traditional lenders, quasi-government entities like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, or other government entities.



Lenders may attempt to sell REO properties in their portfolios without the help of real estate agents. When this is the case, banks often list their REO properties on their websites. A bank's loan officers may also notify customers looking for homes about the REO properties in its portfolio.



REO properties are managed by the lender's REO specialist. Their role includes:



Marketing the properties
Reviewing any offers
Preparing regular reports on the status of properties in the bank's portfolio
Tracking down deeds



The REO specialist also works closely with the lender's in-house or contracted property manager to ensure properties are secure and winterized or to prepare a property for vacancy. The REO specialist undertakes these job functions to help the bank liquidate its properties quickly and efficiently.


   Special Considerations  

REO specialists often contract the services of local real estate agents to list the properties in the multiple listing service (MLS) so they get more exposure. Listing properties in the MLS ensures that potential buyers who real estate websites, as well as sites like Zillow, Realtor.com, Redfin, and Trulia, will see the listings. REO listing agents bring any offers they receive to the REO specialist.






Real estate agents negotiate the commission they receive for selling REO properties with the REO specialist.


   How a Property Gains REO Status  

So how does a property become real estate owned? There is a process that lenders must adhere to for it to go from the original owner to lender-owned. It starts with the borrower defaulting on their mortgage or home loan. Lenders normally have a cut-off date, but it's normally within a few months. When a mortgage is in default, lenders try to work with the borrower to bring it up to date. If not, it goes to the next stage: foreclosure.



Foreclosure is a legal process. It allows lenders to repossess the property and try to sell it to recoup the outstanding balance of the loan. There are instances when lenders can't sell the property. This is the point at which it becomes real estate owned. The lender manages the property and prepares it for listing on the market.






To help ensure a smooth closing, buyers should also search public records to ensure that all liens associated with a property have been paid.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a REO Property  
  Advantages  

REO properties can be attractive to real estate investors and homebuyers because they're cost-effective investments. Banks may often sell them at a discount to their market value since selling such properties is not typically their primary business line.



Many properties that come through the foreclosure process don't just have outstanding loans, there may also be other defaulted payments on them. This can include property tax payments and other debts. The point of foreclosure is to remove any liens from the property and sell it. Purchasing an REO means they come lien-free, so there are no defective titles and no outstanding debts.



The majority of lenders don't want to hold onto REO properties. Keeping them on the market means they lose money. As such, they're usually more motivated to unload the REO property than a regular seller would their own home. Instead of doing the back-and-forth, lenders may be more willing to negotiate, which means buyers can often walk away paying a better price.


  Disadvantages  

Lenders typically sell REO properties on an as-is basis. This means they will not make any (major) repairs or renovations prior to selling. These properties are often in disrepair, so it's crucial to have a thorough home inspection and be prepared to make (and pay for) necessary upgrades and renovations that may be needed.



A highly neglected or damaged property may require extensive repairs and upgrades in order to make it habitable again. The cost of repairs can often negate any savings buyers have on the actual purchase price.



Although single-family home occupants may be evicted prior to listing, multi-family homes may still be occupied by tenants. This means buyers may end up becoming landlords, even if they never intended to take on that role. Buyers will have to take precautions to ensure they are compliant with local and state landlord-tenant laws by honoring existing leases.





Pros

Discounted prices
No outstanding liens or debts
Lenders may be willing to negotiate



Cons

Properties are sold as-is
High cost of repairs
Properties may be tenanted







What Does Real Estate Owned Mean?
A real estate owned property is one that is managed by a bank or other lender. Properties that fall under this category are taken over by lenders after the original borrowers default on their mortgages. Lenders then go through the foreclosure process to repossess the property and sell them at auction. If the property isn't sold, the property becomes part of the lender's inventory.




How Does a Property Become Real Estate Owned?
There is a process that a property must go through before they can become real estate owned. First, the borrower goes into default. If the lender cannot negotiate repayment of the mortgage, they can repossess the property. This allows them to evict any occupants (provided it's a single-family home) and prepare the property for sale at auction. If the property can't be sold, it becomes part of the lender's inventory and, therefore, real estate owned.




How Much Should I Offer on a Real Estate Owned Property?
That depends. Lenders are normally very motivated to sell REO properties, which means they often come at a bigger discount compared to others, which means that you'll already pay (significantly) less than you would if the original borrower was selling it. If you still feel that you're not getting the best price, look at the market value of the property and other comparable homes in the area and make your offer.


   The Bottom Line  

Real estate can present a very lucrative opportunity that can bring in a lot of money for investors. But where should you start looking? Many investors find opportunities in real estate owned properties, which are owned by lenders. These properties go through the default and foreclosure process and aren't sold at auction. Because it can be costly to maintain, lenders are often highly motivated to sell. You can get these properties at a steep discount. But beware: it may come at a high cost, especially if they are neglected or require extensive repairs.
What Is the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA)?  

The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) was enacted by the U.S. Congress in 1975 to provide homebuyers and sellers with complete settlement cost disclosures. RESPA was also introduced to eliminate abusive practices in the real estate settlement process, prohibit kickbacks, and limit the use of escrow accounts. RESPA is a federal statute now regulated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).





Key Takeaways

The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) applies to the majority of purchase loans, refinances, property improvement loans, and home equity lines of credit (HELOCs).RESPA requires lenders, mortgage brokers, or servicers of home loans to provide disclosures to borrowers concerning real estate transactions, settlement services, and consumer protection laws.RESPA prohibits loan servicers from demanding excessively large escrow accounts and restricts sellers from mandating title insurance companies.A plaintiff has up to one year to bring a lawsuit to enforce violations where kickbacks or other improper behavior occurred during the settlement process.A plaintiff has up to three years to bring a suit against their loan servicer.


   Understanding the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA)  

Initially passed by Congress in 1974, RESPA became effective on June 20, 1975. RESPA has been impacted over the years by several changes and amendments. Enforcement initially fell under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). After 2011, those responsibilities were assumed by the CFPB because of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. 



From its inception, RESPA has regulated mortgage loans attached to one- to four-family residential properties. The objective of RESPA is to educate borrowers regarding their settlement costs and eliminate kickback practices and referral fees that can inflate the cost of obtaining a mortgage. The types of loans covered by RESPA include the majority of purchase loans, assumptions, refinances, property improvement loans, and home equity lines of credit (HELOCs).





Important

RESPA does not apply to extensions of credit to the government, government agencies, or instrumentalities, or in situations where the borrower plans to use property or land primarily for business, commercial, or agricultural purposes.


   RESPA Requirements  

RESPA requires lenders, mortgage brokers, or servicers of home loans to disclose to borrowers any information about the real estate transaction. The information disclosure should include settlement services, relevant consumer protection laws, and any other information connected to the cost of the real estate settlement process. Business relationships between closing service providers and other parties connected to the settlement process also should be disclosed to the borrower.


   What Does RESPA Prohibit?  

RESPA prohibits specific practices, such as kickbacks, referrals, and unearned fees. For example, Section 8 prohibits any person from giving or receiving something of value in exchange for referrals of a settlement service business. It also regulates the use of escrow accounts—such as prohibiting loan servicers to demand excessively large escrow accounts—and restricts sellers from mandating title insurance companies.





Note

RESPA does allow an exception in which brokers and agents can exchange reasonable payments in return for goods or services provided by other settlement service providers, as long as those arrangements are compliant with the law and regulatory guidelines.


  Marketing and Sponsorship  

RESPA does not prohibit joint market efforts between a real estate broker and a lender as long as advertising costs paid by each party are related to the value of any goods or services that might be received in return. But transactions in which one party pays more than a pro rata share of advertising costs are prohibited. Sponsorship of events also may be considered prohibited actions if one party uses the event to market or advertise its services.



Real estate brokers and title agents are barred from entering into market service agreements when one party charges the other an amount for marketing materials that exceeds the fair market value of marketing services performed. A settlement service provider may not rent space from another settlement service provider unless it’s paying fair market value to do so.


  Referral Fees  

Real estate brokers cannot pay agents to refer clients to the broker’s affiliate mortgage company. Brokers cannot offer referral fees to other brokers for directing clients to their business. These cooperative fees are prohibited and are essentially viewed as a form of kickback. Mortgage lenders cannot offer any type of referral incentive to local real estate agents for referring homebuyers to their loan products.


  Affiliated Business Arrangements  

Real estate brokers cannot refer business to an affiliated title company without disclosing that relationship to their customers. This disclosure must detail the charges that the title company requires for its services and the broker’s financial interest in the title company. Customers also must be made aware that they’re not required to use the title company to which they’ve been referred. Real estate brokers and title insurance companies cannot create an affiliated company to collect dividends from referrals.



Lenders cannot require borrowers to use a particular affiliate settlement service provider. However, they can provide financial incentives to do so. For example, a homebuyer may be able to take advantage of affiliated services at a discounted rate.


   Enforcement Procedures for RESPA Violations  

A plaintiff has up to one year to bring a lawsuit to enforce violations where kickbacks or other improper behavior occurred during the settlement process.



If the borrower has a grievance against their loan servicer, there are specific steps they must follow before any suit can be filed. The borrower must contact their loan servicer in writing, detailing the nature of their issue. The servicer is required to respond to the borrower’s complaint in writing within 20 business days of receipt of the complaint. The servicer has 60 business days to correct the issue or give its reasons for the validity of the account’s current status. Borrowers should continue to make the required payments until the issue is resolved.





Tip

If you don’t use a lawyer throughout your real estate transaction, it’s best to get in touch with one immediately if you believe a RESPA violation has occurred. A real estate lawyer will be able to help you navigate the legal process.



A plaintiff has up to three years to bring a suit for specific improprieties against their loan servicer. Any of these suits can be brought in any federal district court if the court is in the district where either the property is located or the alleged RESPA violation occurred.


   Criticisms of RESPA  

Critics of RESPA say that some of the abusive practices that the law is designed to eliminate still occur, including kickbacks. One example of this is lenders that provide captive insurance to the title insurance companies that they work with. (A captive insurance company is a wholly owned subsidiary of a larger firm that is tasked with writing insurance policies for the parent and does not insure any other company.)



Critics say this is essentially a kickback mechanism because customers usually elect to use the service providers already associated with their lender or real estate agent (although customers are required to sign documents that say they are free to choose any service provider).



Because of these criticisms, there have been many attempts to make changes to RESPA. One proposal involves removing the option for customers to choose to use any service provider for each service. In place of this would be a system where services are bundled, but the real estate agent or lender is responsible for directly paying for all other costs. The advantage of this system is that lenders (who always have more buying power) would be forced to seek out the lowest prices for all real estate settlement services.




Who Does the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) Protect?
The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) is intended to protect consumers who are seeking to become eligible for a mortgage loan. However, RESPA does not protect all types of loans. Loans secured by real estate for a business or agricultural purpose are not covered by RESPA.




What Information Does RESPA Require To Be Disclosed?
RESPA requires that borrowers receive various disclosures at different times. First, the lender or mortgage broker must give you an estimate of the total settlement service charges that you likely will have to pay. (This estimate is a good-faith estimate; however, actual costs may vary.) The lender or mortgage broker also must provide a written disclosure when you apply for a loan or within the next three business days if they expect that someone else will be collecting your mortgage payments (also referred to as servicing a loan).If necessary, your lender or mortgage broker must provide an Affiliated Business Arrangement Disclosure. This disclosure indicates that the lender, real estate broker, or other participant in your settlement has referred you to an affiliate for a settlement service. (An affiliate is a business that is controlled by a common corporate parent.) One business day before you settle your loan, you have the right to inspect your U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) HUD-1 Settlement Statement. A HUD-1 Settlement Statement includes an itemized list of all charges and credits to the buyer and to the seller in a consumer credit mortgage transaction.




Why Was RESPA Passed?
RESPA was passed as part of an effort to limit the use of escrow accounts and to prohibit abusive practices in the real estate industry, such as kickbacks and referral fees.


   The Bottom Line  

When buying a home, it can be helpful to work with a trust, licensed real estate agent, or broker who can guide you through the process. Likewise, if you’re refinancing an existing mortgage or borrowing against your home equity, it’s important to go through a reputable lender. RESPA, along with other regulatory guidelines, is designed to help protect homebuyers and existing homeowners from unfair practices when dealing with real estate agents, brokers, lenders and affiliated companies.
What Is a Short Sale?  

A short sale in real estate is an offer of a property at an asking price that is less than the amount due on the current owner's mortgage.



A short sale is usually a sign of a financially distressed homeowner who needs to sell the property before the lender seizes it in foreclosure.



All of the proceeds of a short sale go to the lender. The lender then has two options—to forgive the remaining balance or to pursue a deficiency judgment that requires the former homeowner to pay the lender all or part of the difference. In some states, this difference in price must be forgiven.





Key Takeaways

A short sale usually indicates a homeowner in financial distress, a real estate market in the doldrums, or both.The short sale must be approved in advance by the mortgage lender.The mortgage holder may be required to pay the shortfall or the debt may be forgiven.The financial consequences of a short sale may be less severe than a foreclosure for both the seller and the lender.For a home buyer, a short sale can be a good opportunity if approached cautiously.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding a Short Sale  

Short sales usually occur when a homeowner is in financial distress and has missed one or more mortgage payments. Foreclosure proceedings may be looming ahead.



They also are more likely to occur when the housing market is in a down period, such as the 2007-2009 financial crisis which caused home prices to plummet and sales to slow in many regions.



For example, if real estate values drop, a homeowner may end up selling a house for $150,000 when there is still $175,000 remaining to be paid on the mortgage. The difference of $25,000 (less any closing and other selling costs) is called the deficiency balance.


  Lender Sign-Off  

Before the process can begin, the mortgage lender must sign off on a decision to execute a short sale, sometimes termed a pre-foreclosure sale.



The lender, typically a bank, requires that the mortgage holder submit documentation explaining why a short sale makes sense. No short sale can occur without the lender's prior approval.



Short sales tend to be lengthy and paperwork-intensive transactions, taking up to a full year to process. They are not as detrimental to a homeowner’s credit rating as a foreclosure.






Discrimination in mortgage lending is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One is to file a report to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) or with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).


   Special Considerations  

A short sale hurts a person’s credit score less than a foreclosure but it is still a negative credit mark. Any type of property sale that is denoted by a credit company as not paid as agreed is a ding on the score. Short sales, foreclosures, and deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure all hurt an individual's credit rating to some degree.



Short sales don’t always negate the remaining mortgage debt. There are two parts to a mortgage. The first is the lien against the property that is used to secure the loan. The lien protects the lender in case a borrower can’t repay the loan. It gives the lending institution the right to sell the property for repayment. This part of the mortgage is waived in a short sale.



The second part of the mortgage is the promise to repay. Lenders can still enforce this portion either through a new note or the collection of the deficiency. In any case, the lender must approve the short sale, which means borrowers are sometimes at their whim.






When convincing a lender to agree to a short sale, the homeowner must be able to cite a new source of financial difficulty, not something that was withheld at the time the mortgage was approved.


   Short Sale vs. Foreclosure  

A short sale or foreclosure are two possible outcomes for homeowners who are behind on their mortgage payments, own a home that is underwater, or both. In either case, the owner is forced to part with the home, but the timeline and consequences are different.


  How a Foreclosure Works  

In a foreclosure, the lender seizes the home after the borrower fails to make payments. Unlike a short sale, a foreclosure is initiated by the lender alone. Foreclosure is the last option for the lender.



In such cases, the lender repossesses the home, hoping to eventually make good on its investment in the mortgage. Unlike in most short sales, many foreclosures take place after the homeowner abandons the home. If the occupants are still in the home, they are evicted by the lender.



Once the lender has access to the home, it orders an appraisal and puts it up for sale.



Foreclosures normally take less time to complete because the lender wants to liquidate the asset quickly. Foreclosed homes may even be auctioned off at a public trustee sale.



Depending on the circumstances, homeowners who experience foreclosure have to wait for two to seven years to purchase another home. A foreclosure is kept on a person’s credit report for seven years.


  How a Short Sale Works  

A distressed homeowner generally gets to stay in the home during the short sale process.



A homeowner who has gone through a short sale may, with certain restrictions, be eligible to purchase another home immediately.



While a foreclosure essentially lets you walk away from your home—albeit with grave consequences for your financial future, such as having to declare bankruptcy and destroying your credit—completing a short sale is labor-intensive. However, the payoff for the extra work involved in a short sale may be worth it.






Less drastic alternatives to a short sale include loan modification or the use of private mortgage insurance.


   Short Sale Alternatives  

Before resigning yourself to a short sale, talk to your lender about the possibility of a revised payment plan or loan modification. One of these options might allow you to stay in your home and get back on your feet.



Obtaining a loan modification may temporarily lower your credit score, as will any application for new credit.



Another possible option for staying in your home may be available if you have private mortgage insurance (PMI). Many homeowners who purchased homes with less than 20% down were required to purchase PMI with their homes. If the PMI company thinks you have a chance to recover from your current financial situation, it may advance funds to your lender to bring your payments up to date. Eventually, you’ll have to repay the advance.


   The Short Sale Process  

Several steps are necessary to pull off a short sale.


  Convince the Lender  

Before beginning the process, struggling homeowners should consider how likely it is that the lender will agree to work with them on a short sale. The lender is not required to cooperate.



The source of the financial trouble should be new, such as a health problem, the loss of a job, or a divorce, rather than something that was not disclosed when the homebuyer originally applied for the loan. The lender won’t be sympathetic to a dishonest borrower.



However, if you feel you were a victim of predatory lending practices, you may be able to talk the lender into a short sale even if you have not had any major financial catastrophes since purchasing the home.



To put yourself in a more convincing position, stop purchasing non-necessities. You don’t want to look irresponsible to the lender when it reviews your proposal.



Be aware of other circumstances that may prevent the approval of a short sale. If you are not in default on your mortgage payments yet, the lender probably won’t be willing to work with you. If the lender thinks it can get more money from foreclosing on your home than from allowing a short sale, it may not allow one. If someone cosigned the mortgage, the lender may hold that person responsible for payment rather than doing a short sale.



If you think your situation is ripe for a short sale, talk to a decision-maker at the bank about the possibility. Don’t just speak to a customer service representative. Immediately ask to speak with the lender’s loss mitigation department.



If you don’t like what the first decision-maker says, try talking to another one on another day and see if you get a different answer. If the lender is willing to consider a short sale, you’re ready to move forward with creating the short-sale proposal and finding a buyer.


  Consult Professionals  

You may want to consult with an attorney, a tax professional, and a real estate agent. While these are high-priced professional services, if you try to handle a complex short-sale transaction yourself, you may find yourself in even bigger financial trouble.



You may be able to pay for these service fees out of the sale proceeds from your home. Professionals accustomed to dealing with short-sale transactions will be able to give you guidance on how to pay them.


  Set a Price  

When setting an asking price, make sure to factor the cost of selling the property into the total amount of money you need to get out of the sale. Of course, you want to sell the home for as close to the value of your mortgage as possible, but in a down market, there is bound to be a shortfall.



In some states, even after a short sale, the bank will expect you to pay back all or part of that shortfall.


  Gather Your Documents and Find a Buyer  

Gather all the documents you’ll need to prove your financial hardship to the lender. These may include bank statements, medical bills, pay stubs, a termination notice from your former job, or a divorce decree.



It is up to you to come up with a proposal. Be aware that the lender ultimately must approve a short sale after receiving all the details because the lender is the recipient of the proceeds.



Your job is to find a buyer for your home.


  Submit Your Proposal to the Bank  

Once you have a buyer and the necessary paperwork, you are ready to submit the buyer’s offer and your proposal to the bank.



Along with the documentation of your distressed financial status, your proposal should include a hardship letter explaining the circumstances that are preventing you from making your mortgage payments. You want to make it as convincing as possible and protect your interests while also appealing to the bank.



Be careful about submitting your financial information to a lender. If it does not approve the short sale, it may use your financial information to try to get money out of you in foreclosure proceedings. If you still have cash assets, you may be expected to use them to continue making mortgage payments or to make up the shortfall between the sale price and the mortgage amount.



An attorney experienced in completing short sales can help you navigate the details.



Short sales can take longer than regular home sales due to the need for lender approval. They often fall through, too. The buyer may find another property while you're waiting on an answer from the lender. Be prepared for this possibility. If the short-sale transaction goes through, consult with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to see if you will have to pay taxes on the shortfall.



Don't forget that a short sale can still affect your credit score. The months of mortgage payments that you missed before the short sale can show up as delinquent payments on your credit report. It is up to the bank to decide what to report, so it’s in your best interest to try to convince the bank not to report your defaulted payments.



Your bank may be more likely to be generous in this regard if you brought up your hardship before you were significantly behind.


   Short Sale Strategies for Buyers and Investors  

Short sales can provide excellent opportunities for buyers to get houses at a reduced price. Here are a couple of tips to help you make smart decisions when considering a short-sale property.


  Learn How to Find Them  

Most short-sale properties are listed by real estate agents and on real estate websites. Some listings may not be advertised as short sales, so you might have to look for clues within the listing. It may be indicated as subject to bank approval.



An experienced real estate agent can make a big difference in terms of finding and closing short-sale properties. Agents who specialize in short sales may hold a Short Sales and Foreclosure Resource (SFR) certification, a designation offered by the National Association of Realtors (NAR).



Holders of this certification have specialized training in short sales and foreclosures, qualifying sellers for short sales, negotiating with lenders, and protecting buyers.


  Prepare to Hurry Up and Wait  

Short sales are complicated, time-consuming transactions for both the buyer and the seller. It can take weeks or months for a lender to approve a short sale and many buyers who submit an offer end up canceling because the process takes too long.



Rules for short-sale transactions vary from state to state, but the steps normally include:



Short sale package: The borrower has to prove financial hardship by submitting a financial package to their lender. The package includes financial statements, a letter describing the seller’s hardship(s), and financial records, including tax returns, W-2s, payroll stubs, and bank statements.
Short sale offer: Once a seller accepts an offer from a potential buyer, the listing agent sends the lender the listing agreement, an executed purchase offer, the buyer’s pre-approval letter, a copy of the earnest money check, and the seller’s short-sale package. If the package is missing anything, either because a document wasn’t submitted or due to a filing error on the bank’s part, the process will be delayed.
Bank processing: The bank’s review of the offer can take several weeks to months. In the end, it will approve or deny it. Just because the seller accepts an offer doesn’t mean the bank will agree to the price. If the bank thinks it can make more money through foreclosure proceedings, it will reject the offer.






If you are buying a house in a short sale with the intention of flipping it, the key to a profitable transaction is a good purchase price.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Short Sale  

Short sales allow a homeowner to dispose of a property that is losing value. Although they do not recoup the costs of their mortgage, a short sale allows a buyer to escape foreclosure, which can be much more damaging to their credit score. In some cases, the lender may write the remaining debt as a loss, thereby reducing the owner's debt burden.



A short sale also allows the homeowner to reduce the amount of fees they pay when they sell the home. In most cases, these fees are the obligation of a property owner when they sell the property. In a short sale, these fees are paid by the lender.



For buyers, the benefits of a short sale are evident: they get a discount price on a home from a lender that's motivated to sell the property. On the other hand, the buyer has to do a lot more homework. Short sales typically don't come with the same disclosures as a regular sale, and it is up to the prospective buyer to identify any problems with a property.




Pros and Cons of a Short Sale

Pros

Allows homeowners to dispose of a debt that they are unlikely to repay.
Homeowners have to pay fewer fees than a typical home sale.
Short sales allow buyers to buy property at a discount
Lenders may write off part of the debt as a loss.



Cons

Short sales come with fewer legal disclosures than a typical home sale.
There is more paperwork involved in a short sale.
Short sales can damage the seller's credit rating, but less than a foreclosure.





   Mistakes to Avoid  

Homes in a short sale are sold as-is, without the mandatory seller obligations of a normal real estate sale. Since short sales do not come with the typical disclosures of a normal house sale, it falls on the prospective buyer to inspect the property and identify any faults. Short-sold homes may be in worse conditions than the average home on the market, making it all the more important to identify any problems.



It is also possible that a prospective buyer may not give themselves enough time before closing. As mentioned, short sales tend to require more work than an average house sale, meaning that they may also take longer to close. Buyers should be careful to make sure they have time to complete the process before the sale closes.


   It’s All in the Numbers  

In real estate investing, it is said that the money is made in the buy. This means that a good purchase price is often the key to a successful deal. If you can get a property for a good price, you increase the odds of coming out ahead when it comes time to sell. If the purchase price is on the high end, on the other hand, you’ll watch your profit margin erode.



You should be able to buy the property, put it in great condition, and sell it at a profitable price. Investors need to be able to turn around and sell the house quickly—typically at below-market—and a good purchase price makes this possible.



The purchase price is only one important number, however. You’ll have to make some other calculations as well, including:


  Repairs and Renovation Costs  

These costs will vary depending on the property’s condition and your plans for it. It pays to put in the time and effort to develop a realistic budget, as this is one of the figures you’ll need to determine if the investment can make money.



Costs to consider include material, labor, permits, inspection fees, trash removal, storage costs, and dumpster rentals. A good inspection (before making the purchase) can alert you to any large expenses, such as a cracked foundation, faulty wiring, or extensive termite damage.


  After Repair Value (ARV)  

ARV is an estimate of the property’s fair market value (FMV) after any repairs and renovations are made. Investors look at this number to determine whether a property has profit potential.



The best way to evaluate a property’s ARV is to look at comparables (comps). These are homes that have recently sold in the area (typically up to a mile away from the subject property) that have similar features in terms of square footage, such as the number of bedrooms and bathrooms.


  Carrying Costs  

Carrying costs are your expenses for holding onto the property. The longer you own the property, the more you will spend on carrying costs, which include:



Mortgage payment (including interest)Property taxesInsuranceCondo and association feesUtilities (electric, gas, water, sewer, trash)


  Determine Profitability  

For an investment to be profitable, the sum of your costs (the purchase price, repair and renovation costs, and carrying costs) must be lower than the ARV. If your costs are close to or higher than the ARV, it will be difficult or impossible to make a profit. You can determine the potential profit by subtracting the purchase price, repair and renovation costs, and carrying costs from the ARV:



Profit = ARV – Purchase Price – R&R Costs – Carrying Costs



Real estate investors might expect to earn at least a 20% profit on a property. Some use guidelines to evaluate properties in various housing markets. Under these guidelines, the total investment (purchase price, repair and renovation costs, and carrying costs) should not exceed:



80% of ARV in a market where home values are rising70% to 75% of ARV in a flat market60% to 65% of ARV in a market in which home values are decreasing



If the ARV of a property is $200,000, for example, your total investment should be limited to about $160,000 in a rising market, $140,000 in a flat market, and $120,000 in a market with falling values.



The various investment levels are used to reduce risk in changing market conditions. You can risk more in a rising market because you are more likely to get your ARV or better when you sell. In a falling market, you are less likely to get your ARV, so your investment should be smaller.




What Is a Short Sale?
In real estate, a short sale may take place when an owner sells a house at a price that is less than the outstanding mortgage amount.This typically happens when the owner is under financial stress and is behind on mortgage payments. The owner is obligated to sell the home to a third party, with all of the proceeds of the sale going to the lender.The lender must approve the short sale before it happens. The process can take as long as a year due to the paperwork involved. 




What Is the Difference Between a Short Sale and a Foreclosure?
In a short sale, the process is initiated by the homeowner to get out of financial trouble. The owner must prove the extent of the financial distress through documents submitted to the lender. If the lender agrees to move forward, the homeowner is responsible for finding a buyer.In a foreclosure, the lender initiates the process, seizing the home and, if necessary, evicting the owner who has failed to make payments. The foreclosure process is generally faster than a short sale, as the lender seeks to liquidate the asset as quickly as possible. 




Is It a Good Idea to Buy a Short Sale Property?
Buying a short-sale property can be a good deal for a prospective buyer.  However, it is important to be aware of some of the drawbacks involved. Short sales can take a long time. Moreover, if the bank believes that a foreclosure proceeding is a more lucrative option, it may reject the short sale and move forward with foreclosure instead. 


   The Bottom Line  

A short-sale property can provide an excellent opportunity to purchase a house for less money. In many cases, short-sale homes are in reasonable condition, and while the purchase price might be higher than a foreclosure, the costs of making the home marketable can be much lower and the disadvantages to the seller can be less severe.



However, because of the lengthy process, buyers and sellers must be willing to wait. An experienced real estate agent can help you determine a fair offer and negotiate with the bank.



Because tax laws are complicated and constantly changing, you should consult with a certified public accountant (CPA) who knows about real estate investing and the related tax laws to give you comprehensive and up-to-date information.



It can mean the difference between making a profit and taking a loss on an investment.
What Is Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP)?  

Real gross domestic product (GDP) is an inflation-adjusted measure that reflects the value of all goods and services produced by an economy in a given year. Real GDP is expressed in base-year prices. It is often referred to as constant-price GDP, inflation-corrected GDP, or constant-dollar GDP. Put simply, real GDP measures the total economic output of a country and is adjusted for changes in price.





Key Takeaways

Real gross domestic product is an inflation-adjusted measure that reflects the value of all goods and services produced by an economy in a given year.It is expressed in base-year prices and is often referred to as constant-price, inflation-corrected, or constant-dollar GDP.Real GDP makes comparing GDP more meaningful because it shows comparisons for both the quantity and value of goods and services.Real GDP is calculated by dividing nominal GDP by a GDP deflator.Unlike real GDP, nominal GDP uses current market prices and doesn't factor inflation into its calculation.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Real GDP  

Real GDP is a macroeconomic statistic that measures the value of the goods and services produced by an economy in a specific period, adjusted for price changes. Essentially, it measures a country's total economic output, taking price changes into account—whether they are due to inflation or deflation.



Governments use both nominal and real GDP as metrics for analyzing economic growth and purchasing power over time. This is done using the GDP price deflator (also called the implicit price deflator), which measures the changes in prices for all of the goods and services produced in an economy. To determine real GDP, economists take nominal GDP and adjust it for price changes.



The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) provides a quarterly report on GDP with headline data statistics representing real GDP levels and real GDP growth. Nominal GDP is also included in the BEA’s quarterly report under the name current dollar. Unlike nominal GDP, real GDP accounts for changes in price levels and provides a more accurate figure of economic growth.





2.1%

The U.S. real GDP growth rate during the second quarter of 2023 (annualized).



Real GDP Calculation
Calculating real GDP is a complex process typically best provided by the BEA. In general, calculating real GDP is done by dividing nominal GDP by the GDP deflator (R).















Real GDP


=



Nominal GDP


R

















where:
















GDP


=


Gross domestic product
















R


=


GDP deflator







\begin{aligned}&\text{Real GDP} = \frac{\text{Nominal GDP}}{\text{R}}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{GDP}=\text{Gross domestic product}\\&\text{R} =\text{GDP deflator}\end{aligned}


​Real GDP=RNominal GDP​where:GDP=Gross domestic productR=GDP deflator​
The BEA provides the deflator on a quarterly basis. The GDP deflator is a measurement of inflation since a base year. Dividing the nominal GDP by the deflator removes the effects of inflation.
For example, if an economy's prices have increased by 1% since the base year, the deflating number is 1.01. If nominal GDP was $1 million, then real GDP is calculated as $1,000,000 / 1.01, or $990,099.


   What Is Nominal GDP?  

As noted above, governments rely on both real and nominal GDP to get an idea of where the economy is heading. While real GDP takes inflation (or deflation) into account, nominal GDP is a macroeconomic assessment of the value of goods and services using current prices in its measure. As such, nominal GDP is also referred to as the current dollar GDP.
Because nominal GDP measures how well the economy is doing without factoring in price changes due to inflation or deflation, it may actually inflate growth because all of the goods and services that are used to determine nominal GDP are valued at prices in the current year.
The easiest way to calculate nominal GDP is by multiplying real GDP by the GDP deflator:















Nominal GDP


=


Real GDP


×


GDP Deflator







\begin{aligned}&\text{Nominal GDP} = \text{Real GDP} \times \text{GDP Deflator} \\\end{aligned}


​Nominal GDP=Real GDP×GDP Deflator​
You can also calculate it using the expenditure method:















Nominal GDP


=


C


+


I


+


G


+


(


X


−


M


)
















where:
















C


=


Consumer spending
















I


=


Business investment
















G


=


Government spending
















X


−


M


=


Total net exports







\begin{aligned}&\text{Nominal GDP} = \text{C} + \text{I} + \text{G} + ( \text{X} - \text{M} ) \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{C} = \text{Consumer spending} \\&\text{I} = \text{Business investment} \\&\text{G} = \text{Government spending} \\&\text{X} - \text{M} = \text{Total net exports} \\\end{aligned}


​Nominal GDP=C+I+G+(X−M)where:C=Consumer spendingI=Business investmentG=Government spendingX−M=Total net exports​






Although U.S. real GDP increased by 2.1% in the second quarter of 2023 on an annualized basis, nominal GDP, which is called current-dollar GDP by the BEA, increased by 4.1%.


   Real GDP vs. Nominal GDP  

Because GDP is one of the most important metrics for evaluating the economic activity, stability, and growth of goods and services in an economy, it is usually reviewed from two angles: real and nominal. The table below highlights some of the main differences between the two types of GDP used by economists, businesses, investors, and government leaders.










Differences Between Real GDP and Nominal GDP





Real GDP 
Nominal GDP 


Based on
Base year market prices
Current market prices


Adjusted for Inflation
Yes
No


Value (During Inflation)
Lower
Higher


How Accurate
More accurate 
May overstate growth during times of inflation


Other Names
Constant dollar or inflation-adjusted GDP
Current dollar GDP






Economists use the BEA’s real GDP headline data for macroeconomic analysis and central bank planning. As the table above indicates, the main difference between nominal GDP and real GDP is the taking of inflation into account. Since nominal GDP is calculated using current prices, it does not require any adjustments for inflation. This makes comparisons from quarter to quarter and year to year much simpler to calculate and analyze. Keep in mind, though, that any comparisons are less relevant.



As such, real GDP provides a better basis for judging long-term national economic performance than nominal GDP. Using a GDP price deflator, real GDP reflects GDP on a per-quantity basis. Without real GDP, it would be difficult to identify just from examining nominal GDP whether production is actually expanding—or if it's just a factor of rising per-unit prices in the economy.



A positive difference in nominal minus real GDP signifies inflation and a negative difference signifies deflation. In other words, inflation occurs when nominal GDP is higher than real GDP. Deflation happens when real GDP is higher than nominal GDP.






The GDP price deflator is considered to be a more appropriate inflation measure for measuring economic growth than the consumer price index (CPI) because it isn't based on a fixed basket of goods.


   Example of Real GDP vs. Nominal GDP  

Real GDP will be lower than nominal GDP during inflationary periods and is higher when the economy experiences deflation. Let's demonstrate this using the example of a hypothetical country. Suppose it had a nominal GDP of $100 billion in 2000, which grew by 50% to $150 billion by 2020. Over the same period of time, inflation reduced the relative purchasing power of the dollar by 50%.



Looking at just the nominal GDP, the economy appears to be performing very well, whereas the real GDP expressed in 2000 dollars would actually indicate a reading of $75 billion, revealing in fact a net overall decline in economic growth had occurred. It is due to this greater accuracy that real GDP is favored by economists as a method of measuring economic performance.




What Does 'Real' Mean in Real GDP?
Real GDP tracks the total value of goods and services calculating the quantities but using constant prices that are adjusted for inflation. This is opposed to nominal GDP, which does not account for inflation. Adjusting for constant prices makes it a measure of real economic output for apples-to-apples comparison over time and between countries.




What Does Real GDP Measure?
Real GDP is an inflation-adjusted measurement of a country’s economic output over the course of a year. The U.S. GDP is primarily measured based on the expenditure approach and calculated using the following formula: GDP = C + G + I + NX (where C=consumption; G=government spending; I=Investment; and NX=net exports).




Why Is Real GDP More Accurate Than Nominal GDP?
Real GDP is considered to be more accurate than nominal GDP because it factors inflation (or price changes) into its calculation. As such, it measures the total health of the economy. Nominal GDP, on the other hand, doesn't necessarily provide an accurate picture of the economy or where it's headed. That's because it factors current market prices into its calculation. This means that it can only be used as a comparative metric to others that aren't adjusted for inflation.




Why Is Measuring Real GDP Important?
Countries with larger GDPs will have a greater amount of goods and services generated within them, and will generally have a higher standard of living. For this reason, many citizens and political leaders see GDP growth as an important measure of national success, often referring to GDP growth and economic growth interchangeably. GDP enables policymakers and central banks to judge whether the economy is contracting or expanding, whether it needs a boost or restraint, and if a threat such as a recession or inflation looms on the horizon. By accounting for inflation, real GDP is a better gauge of the change in production levels from one period to another.




What Are Some Critiques of Using GDP?
Many economists have argued that GDP should not be used as a proxy for overall economic success, as it does not account for the informal economy, does not count care work or domestic labor in the home, ignores business-to-business activity, and counts costs and wastes as economic activity, among other shortcomings.


   The Bottom Line  

Real GDP is an economic metric that is used to describe the economic output of a country within a specific year. It reflects the value of all goods and services produced while factoring inflation into its calculation. You may often hear it referred to by other names, such as constant-price GDP or inflation-corrected GDP. This is in contrast to nominal GDP. This metric uses current prices to measure the output for goods and services.
What Is Real Income?  

Real income is how much money an individual or entity makes after accounting for inflation and is sometimes called real wage when referring to an individual's income. Individuals often closely track their nominal vs. real income to have the best understanding of their purchasing power.





Key Takeaways

Real income, also known as real wage, is how much money an individual or entity makes after adjusting for inflation.Real income differs from nominal income, which has no such adjustments.Individuals often closely track their nominal vs. real income to have the best understanding of their purchasing power.Most real income calculations are based on inflation reported by the Consumer Price Index (CPI).Theoretically, when inflation is rising, real income and purchasing power fall by the amount of inflation on a per-dollar basis.


   Understanding Real Income  

Real income is an economic measure that provides an estimation of an individual’s actual purchasing power in the open market after accounting for inflation. It subtracts an economic inflation rate per dollar from an individual’s income, typically resulting in a lower value and decreased spending power.






Deflation of prices can also occur, which creates a negative inflation rate. Negative inflation or deflation will lead to a higher purchasing power of real income.



Real income differs from nominal income, which is not adjusted to account for fluctuating prices and living costs. Individuals often closely track their nominal vs. real income to have the best understanding of their purchasing power.



Overall, real income is only an estimate of an individual’s purchasing power since the formula for calculating real income uses a broad collection of goods that may or may not closely match the categories an investor spends within. Moreover, entities may not spend all of their nominal income, avoiding some of the real income’s effects.


   Real Income Formula  

There are several ways to calculate real income. Three basic real income formulas include the following:



Wages -  (wages * inflation rate) = real incomeWages / (1 + Inflation Rate) = real income(1 – Inflation Rate) * Wages = real income


   Inflation Rate Measures  

All real income/real wage formulas can integrate one of several inflation measures. Three of the most popular inflation measures for consumers include:


  Consumer Price Index (CPI)  

The consumer price index (CPI) CPI measures the average cost of a specific basket of goods and services, including food and beverages, education, recreation, clothing, transportation, and medical care. In the United States, the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) publishes CPI numbers monthly and annually.


  Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index  

The Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE) Price Index is a second comparable consumer price index. It includes slightly different classifications for goods and services and also has its own adjustments and methodology nuances. The PCE Price Index is used by the Federal Reserve for gauging consumer price inflation and making monetary policy decisions.


  GDP Price Index (Deflator)  

The GDP Price Index is one of the broadest measures of inflation since it considers everything produced by the U.S. economy, excluding imports.



Generally, the three main price indexes will report relatively the same level of inflation. However, analysts of real income can choose any price index measure that they believe best fits their income analysis situation.


   Special Considerations for Investing  

Many individuals and businesses invest a significant portion of their income in risk-free investment products and vehicles that match or exceed the economic inflation rate to mitigate the effects of inflation on their income.



Several risk-free investments offer a return of approximately 2% or more. These products include high yield savings accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit, Treasuries, and Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS).



Beyond that, investors may be willing to take on slightly more risk to keep their income yielding at or above inflation. For more sophisticated investors, municipal and corporate bonds are often used for obtaining 2%+ returns, beating inflation, and helping income to grow steadily over time.


   Real Wage Rates  

When following real wages, there may be several statistics to consider. A real wage rate can be a basic calculation of an individual’s hourly, weekly, or annual rate after adjusting for inflation.






Having an expectation for a real wage rate can be just as important as a career expectation for a nominal wage rate.


  BLS Reports  

The BLS publishes a monthly real earnings report, which can be helpful in keeping tabs on real wage rates. The “May 2022 Real Earnings” report, for example, shows the real average hourly earnings rate across all surveyed workers on private nonfarm payrolls at $10.96 per hour—a 2.5% decrease on May 2021.



The comprehensive BLS report has been created using special methodologies. Individuals looking to calculate their own real wage rate may be better served by adapting the above real income formulas to their own individual situations.


  Real Income Formulas  

For example, a mid-level manager with a nominal $60,000 per year salary might follow the CPI to calculate their real hourly, weekly, monthly, and annual wage rate. Suppose the CPI reported an inflation rate of 2.4%. Using the simple formula [Wages / (1 + Inflation Rate) = Real Income], this would result in an approximate real wage rate of $58,594—relative to the period in which the $60,000 was calculated.



Calculating real wage rates on an hourly, weekly, and monthly basis can be more complex but still attempted. The mid-level manager could divide his nominal annual wage by the number of hours, weeks, and months per year with a subsequent adjustment. For a monthly assessment, a $60,000 per year salary would translate to $5,000 in nominal pay per month. Adjusting that by the CPI’s monthly change, let's say of -0.01%, the $5,000 would have increased its purchasing power to $5,005.



Other takes on the real wage rate might look at the percentage of real to nominal wages or the real vs. nominal wage growth rate. Cost of living indexes can also provide valuable information on real wage vs. nominal wage rate expectations. These indexes are used to make cost-of-living adjustments (COLA) for workers, insurance plans, retirement plans, and more.


   Purchasing Power  

Overall, inflation’s effect on wages will affect the purchasing power of an individual consumer. When prices are rising in the marketplace but consumers are getting paid the same wage then a discrepancy is created, which leads to an effect on purchasing power. This is why real income decreases when inflation increases and vice versa.



When inflation occurs, a consumer must pay more for a fixed quantity of goods or services. Theoretically, this is why savvy investors seek to hold a significant portion of their income in investments with a 2%+ return. In that case, with inflation at 2% they would be able to maintain their purchasing power at a constant level.



For instance, assume a consumer spends approximately $100 per month for a total of $1,200 per year on food during a year when inflation is rising at an annual rate of 1%. Also, assume that the consumer saw no change in their wages.



A consumer with a $60,000 annual nominal salary would have lost approximately $600 of purchasing power over a year, or one cent per dollar spent, due to the effects of inflation. In terms of their food purchases, this means the same quantity of food cost them $12 more during the current year compared to the past year. Alternatively, if this consumer isn’t following a strict food budget, they will likely spend approximately $101 per month or $1,212 to get the same amount of food they would have bought in the previous year.
What Is a Real Interest Rate?  

A real interest rate is an interest rate that has been adjusted to remove the effects of inflation. Once adjusted, it reflects the real cost of funds to a borrower and the real yield to a lender or to an investor.



A real interest rate reflects the rate of time preference for current goods over future goods. For an investment, a real interest rate is calculated as the difference between the nominal interest rate and the inflation rate:



Real interest rate = nominal interest rate - rate of inflation (expected or actual).





Key Takeaways

A real interest rate equals the observed market interest rate adjusted for the effects of inflation.It reflects the purchasing power value of the interest paid on an investment or loan.It also represents the rate of time-preference of a borrower and lender.Prospective real interest rates rely on estimates of future inflation over the time to maturity of a loan or investment.Investors could earn a rate of return that's negative if the inflation rate is higher than the nominal rate of return on their investments.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   Understanding Real Interest Rates  

While the nominal interest rate is the interest rate actually paid on a loan or investment, the real interest rate is a reflection of the change in purchasing power derived from an investment or given up by the borrower.



The nominal interest rate is generally the one advertised by the institution backing the loan or investment. Adjusting the nominal interest rate to compensate for the effects of inflation helps to identify the shift in purchasing power of a given level of capital over time.



According to the time-preference theory of interest, the real interest rate reflects the degree to which an individual prefers current goods over future goods.



Borrowers who are eager to enjoy the present use of funds show a stronger time preference for current goods over future goods. They are willing to pay a higher interest rate for loaned funds.



Similarly, a lender who strongly prefers to put off consumption to the future shows a lower time preference and will be willing to loan funds at a lower rate. Adjusting for inflation can help reveal the rate of time preference among market participants.


   Special Considerations  
  Expected Rate of Inflation  

The expected rate of inflation is reported to Congress by the Federal Reserve (Fed), among others. Reports include estimates for a minimum three-year period. Most expected (or anticipatory) interest rates are reported as ranges instead of single-point estimates.



As the true rate of inflation may not be known until an investment reaches maturity or its holding period ends, the associated real interest rates must be considered anticipatory.






It's important that investors bear in mind current and expected inflation rates when they research where to put their money. Since the rate of inflation will eat away at the nominal rate of return, avoid lower returning fixed income investments that could mean a negligible real rate of return.


  Effect of Inflation on the Purchasing Power of Investment Gains  

In cases where inflation is positive, the real interest rate will be lower than the advertised nominal interest rate.



For example, if an investment such as a certificate of deposit (CD) is set to earn 4% in interest per year and the rate of inflation for the same time period is 3%, the real interest rate earned on the investment will be 1% (4% - 3%). When purchasing power is taken into consideration, the real value of the funds deposited in the CD will only increase by 1% per year, not 4%.



If those funds were instead placed in a savings account with an interest rate of 1%, and the rate of inflation remained at 3%, then the real value, or purchasing power, of the funds in savings will actually decrease. The real interest rate would be -2% after accounting for inflation (1% - 3%).




What Is Purchasing Power?
Purchasing power is the value of a currency expressed in terms of the number of goods or services that one unit of money can buy. It is important because, all else being equal, inflation decreases the number of goods or services you can purchase.For investments, purchasing power is the dollar amount of credit available to a customer to buy additional securities against the existing marginable securities in the brokerage account. Purchasing power is also known as a currency's buying power.




What Is Inflation?
Inflation is the decline of purchasing power of a given currency over time. The rate of inflation, or the rate of decline in purchasing power, is reflected by the Consumer Price Index (CPI). CPI measures the change in an average price of a basket of selected goods and services over a specific period of time.The rise in the general level of prices, often expressed as a percentage, means that a unit of currency effectively buys less than it did in prior periods. Inflation can be contrasted with deflation, which occurs when the purchasing power of money increases and prices decline.




How Does a Real Interest Rate Affect Investment Returns?
A real interest rate is the nominal (or stated) interest rate less the rate of inflation. For investments, the inflation rate will erode the value of an investment's return by decreasing the rate of return.For example, if the rate of return for bonds you hold is 6% and the inflation rate is 3%, then the real rate of return will be 3%, not 6%. That's because the interest rate of 6% is adjusted downward by 3% to account for the unfortunate power of inflation to erode value (6% - 3% = 3%).


   The Bottom Line  

The real interest rate is an interest rate that has been adjusted for inflation to reflect the real cost of funds to a borrower and the real yield to a lender or an investor.



It reflects the rate of time preference for current goods over future goods and is calculated as the difference between the nominal interest rate and the inflation rate.
What Is a Real Option?  

A real option is an economically valuable right to make or else abandon some choice that is available to the managers of a company, often concerning business projects or investment opportunities. It is referred to as “real” because it typically references projects involving a tangible asset (such as machinery, land, and buildings, as well as inventory), instead of a financial instrument.



Real options differ thus from financial options contracts since they involve real (i.e. physical) "underlying" assets and are not exchangeable as securities.





Key Takeaways

A real option gives a firm's management the right, but not the obligation to undertake certain business opportunities or investments.Real option refer to projects involving tangible assets versus financial instruments.Real options can include the decision to expand, defer or wait, or abandon a project entirely.Real options have economic value, which financial analysts and corporate managers use to inform their decisions.


   Understanding Real Options  

Real options are choices a company’s management gives itself the option to make in order to expand, change, or curtail projects based on changing economic, technological, or market conditions. Factoring in real options affects the valuation of potential investments, although commonly used valuations fail to account for potential benefits provided by real options.



Using real options value analysis (ROV), managers can estimate the opportunity cost of continuing or abandoning a project and make better decisions accordingly.



It is important to note that real options do not refer to a derivative financial instrument, such as call and put options contracts, which give the holder the right to buy or sell an underlying asset, respectively. Instead, real options are opportunities that a business may or may not take advantage of or realize.



For example, investing in a new manufacturing facility may provide a company with real options for introducing new products, consolidating operations, or making other adjustments in response to changing market conditions. When deciding whether to invest in the new facility, the company should consider the real option value the facility provides. Other examples of real options include possibilities for mergers and acquisitions (M&A) or joint ventures.


   Real Options Valuation  

The precise value of real options can be difficult to establish or estimate. For instance, real option value may be realized from a company undertaking socially responsible projects, such as building a community center. By doing so, the company may realize a benefit that makes it easier to obtain necessary permits or approval for other projects. However, it’s difficult to pin an exact financial value on such benefits. 



In dealing with such real options, a company’s management team factors the potential for real option value into the decision-making process, even though the value is necessarily somewhat vague and uncertain. Of course, the key difference between real options and derivatives contracts is that the latter often trades on an exchange and has a numerical value in terms of its price or premium. Real options, on the other hand, are far more subjective. But, by using a combination of experience, and financial valuations, management should get some sense of the value of the project being considered and whether it's worth the risk.



Still, valuation techniques for real options do often appear similar to the pricing of financial options contracts, where the spot price or the current market price refers to the current net present value (NPV) of a project. The net present value is the cash flow that's expected as a result of the new project, but those flows are discounted by a rate that could otherwise be earned for doing nothing. The alternative rate or discount rate might be the rate of a U.S. Treasury bond, for example. If Treasuries pay 3%, the project or the cash flows must yield a return of more than 3%; otherwise, it wouldn't be worth pursuing.



Some valuation models use terminology from derivatives markets wherein the strike price corresponds to non-recoverable costs involved with the project. In the derivatives world, the strike would be the price at which the options contract converts into the underlying security that is based on. Similarly, the expiration date of an options contract could be substituted with the time-frame within which the business decision should be made. Options contracts also have a volatility component, which measures the level of risk in an investment. The higher the risk, the more expensive the option. Real options must also consider the risk involved, and it too could be assigned a value similar to volatility.



Other methods of valuing real options include Monte Carlo simulations, which use mathematical calculations to assign probabilities to various outcomes given certain variables and risks.


   Special Considerations  
  Heuristic Reasoning  

Real options analysis is still often considered to be a heuristic—a rule of thumb, allowing for flexibility and quick decision-making in a complex, ever-changing environment—based on sound financial criteria. The real options heuristic is simply the recognition of the value embodied in the flexibility of choosing among alternatives despite the fact that their objective values cannot be mathematically determined with any degree of certainty.



Even if a quantitative model is employed to value a real option, the choice of the model itself is based on judgement and often a trial-and-error approach since the choices available can vary across firms and project managers.



Having options affords the freedom to make optimal choices in decisions, such as when and where to make a specific capital expenditure. Various management choices to make investments can give companies real options to take additional actions in the future, based on existing market conditions.



In short, real options are about companies making decisions and choices that grant them the greatest amount of flexibility and potential benefit regarding possible future decisions or choices.


  Choices that Fall Under Real Options  

The choices that corporate managers face that typically fall under real options analysis are under three categories of project management.



The first group are options relating to the size of a project. Depending on the ROV analysis, options may exist to expand, contract, or expand and contract the project over time, given various contingencies.The second group relates to the lifetime of a project—to initiate one, delay starting one, abandon an existing one, or plan the sequencing of the project's steps.The third group of real options involves the project's operations: the process flexibility, product mix, and operating scale, among others.



Real options are most appropriate when the economic environment and market conditions relating to a particular project are both highly volatile yet flexible. Stable or rigid environments will not benefit much from ROV and should use more traditional corporate finance techniques instead. Similarly, ROV is applicable only when a firm's corporate strategy lends itself to flexibility, has sufficient information flow, and has sufficient funds to cover potential downside risks associated with real options.


   Real-World Example of Real Options  

The McDonald's Corporation (MCD) has restaurants in more than 100 countries. Let's say the company's executives are mulling the decision to open additional restaurants in Russia. The expansion would fall under the category of a real option to expand. The investment or capital outlay would need to be calculated, including the cost of the physical buildings, land, staff, and equipment.



However, McDonald's executives would need to decide if the revenue earned from the new restaurants will be enough to counter any potential country and political risk, which is difficult to value.



The same scenario could also produce a real option to wait or defer opening any restaurants until a particular political situation resolves itself. Perhaps there's an upcoming election, and the result could impact the stability of the country or the regulatory environment.
What Is Real Property?  

Real property is a parcel of land and everything that is permanently attached to the land. The owner of real property has all of the rights of ownership, including the right to possess, sell, lease, and enjoy the land.



Real property may be classified according to its general use as residential, commercial, agricultural, industrial, or special purpose. In order to understand if you have the right to sell your home, you need to know which rights you possess—or don't possess—in the property.





Key Takeaways

Real estate is defined as land at, above, and below the earth's surface, including all things permanently attached to it, whether natural or artificial.For practical purposes, the term real estate is synonymous with real property.Personal property is defined as all possessions that don't fit the definition of real property, such as clothes, cars, and furniture.


   Understanding Real Property  

To understand how real property is defined, it's helpful to start with land and real estate. Land is the earth's surface extending downward to the center of the earth and upward to infinity, including everything that is permanently attached by nature (or at least attached for the foreseeable future), such as boulders, trees, and water.



Land also includes the minerals below the earth's surface and the airspace above the land.



In contrast, real estate is defined as the land at, above, and below the earth's surface, including everything that's permanently attached to it, whether natural or artificial.



Therefore, the definition of real estate extends to all artificial, permanent improvements to the land such as streets, utilities, sewers, fences, and buildings.



Real property is a broader term than real estate, as it encompasses the interests, benefits, and rights inherent in the ownership of real estate.



The broader term real property includes the physical land (the surface and what lies below and above it), everything that is permanently attached to it—whether natural or artificial—plus all the rights of ownership, including the right to possess, sell, lease, and enjoy the land.






Each state has its own laws regarding what is real property and how to handle its sale. For the most part, real property is not subject to federal law because real estate by definition does not move across state borders.


   Estates in Real Property  

The amount and kind of interest a person has in real property is called an "estate in land." Estates in land are broken down into two major classifications: Freehold estates and non-freehold estates.


  Freehold Estates  

Freehold estates involve ownership. They have an indefinite duration and can last for a lifetime or forever. Examples of freehold estates include:



Fee simple. A holder of an estate in fee simple is entitled to all rights in the property. It is the highest type of interest in real estate recognized by law. The estate is of unlimited duration, and when the owner dies, the estate passes to the owner's heirs.Life estate. A life estate is limited in duration to the life of the owner, or to the life or lives of some other designated person(s). Unlike a fee simple estate, a life estate is not considered an estate of inheritance.


  Non-Freehold Estates  

Non-freehold estates involve leases. They cannot be passed to an heir and they exist "without seisin"—or without ownership. Also known as a leasehold estate, non-freehold estates are created through written and oral leases and rental agreements.



Examples of non-freehold estates include:



Tenancy for years. This is an estate created by a lease that has a definite beginning and end. The lease terminates automatically at the specified end date. Also called estate for years.Tenancy from period to period. This estate exists when the tenancy is for a definite initial time but is automatically renewable for an indefinite period unless the owner or tenant terminates it with prior notice. Also called estate from year to year.Tenancy at will. This type of tenancy can be terminated at any time by either the owner or tenant. Also called estate at will.Tenancy at sufferance. This is the lowest form of estate known to law. It exists indirectly as a result of circumstance and is never created deliberately. It occurs when a person who formerly had a legal right to use the property remains on the property without a legal right to do so and without the owner's consent. The only difference between a tenant at sufferance and a trespasser is that the former had a right to be on the property at some point, but stayed beyond the terms of the lease or agreement. Also called estate at sufferance.


   Real Property vs. Personal Property  

The law makes a clear distinction between real property and personal property. Real property is immovable. It includes the land, everything that is permanently attached to it, and the rights that "run with" the land.



Personal property, on the other hand, is movable. It is defined as everything that is not real property, such as your clothes, furniture, cars, boats, and any other movable items that aren't attached to real estate.


   Real Property vs. Real Estate  

Real estate is land at, above, and below the earth's surface, including everything permanently attached to it, whether natural or artificial. Real property is everything included in real estate, plus the rights of ownership, including the right to possess, sell, lease, and enjoy the land.




What Is Real Estate vs. Real Property?
The terms are used interchangeably but real property is actually a broader term. Real estate is defined as land and everything attached to it. Real property extends to the interests, benefits, and rights inherent in the ownership of real estate.




What Are Some Examples of Real Property
A natural formation like a hill or a pond can be real property. So can an artificial addition such as a house, a driveway, or a garden shed. If someone owns the land that any or all of these things are situated on, that person has the right to use, manage, and dispose of it.These rights have come down to us from English common law. They are, of course, constrained by state and local laws. You may own a barn, but if you decide to open it up as a weekend party house, local zoning laws and your neighbors may have some say in the matter.




Is a Car Real Property?
A car is tangible personal property, not real property, as the car presumably can be moved. Unlike a great deal of personal property, a car can be used to secure a loan. A car loan is secured by the vehicle, as a mortgage is secured by a house.
What Is the Real Rate of Return?  

The real rate of return is the annual percentage of profit earned on an investment, adjusted for inflation. Therefore, the real rate of return accurately indicates the actual purchasing power of a given amount of money over time.



Adjusting the nominal return to compensate for inflation allows the investor to determine how much of a nominal return is real return.



In addition to adjusting for inflation, investors also must consider the impact of other factors, such as taxes and investing fees, to calculate real returns on their money or to choose among various investing options.


   Understanding Real Rate of Return  

The real rate of return is calculated by subtracting the inflation rate from the nominal interest rate.





Key Takeaways

The real rate of return adjusts profit for the effects of inflation.It is a more accurate measure of investment performance than the nominal rate of return.Nominal rates of return are higher than real rates of return except in times of zero inflation or deflation.


   Examples of Real Rate of Return  

Assume a bond pays an interest rate of 5% per year. If the inflation rate is currently 3% per year, then the real return on your savings is only 2%.



In other words, even though the nominal rate of return on your savings is 5%, the real rate of return is only 2%, which means the real value of your savings increases by only 2% in a year.



Considered another way, assume you have saved $10,000 to buy a car but decide to invest the money for a year before buying to ensure that you have a small cash cushion left over after getting the car. Earning 5% interest, you have $10,500 after 12 months. However, because prices increased by 3% during the same period due to inflation, the same car now costs $10,300.



Consequently, the amount of money that remains after you buy the car—which represents your increase in purchasing power—is $200, or 2% of your initial investment. This is your real rate of return, as it represents the amount that you gained after accounting for the effects of inflation.


   Real Rate of Return vs. Nominal Rate of Return  

Interest rates can be expressed in two ways: as nominal rates, or as real rates. The difference is that nominal rates are not adjusted for inflation, while real rates are. As a result, nominal rates are almost always higher, except during those rare periods when deflation, or negative inflation, takes hold.






In the late 1970s and early 1980s, the profits from double-digit interest rates were eaten up by the effects of double-digit inflation.



An example of the potential gap between nominal and real rates of return occurred in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Double-digit nominal interest rates on savings accounts were commonplace—but so was double-digit inflation. Prices increased by 11.25% in 1979 and 13.55% in 1980. Therefore, real rates of return were significantly lower than their nominal-rate counterparts.



So should an investor rely on the nominal rate or the real rate? Real rates give an accurate historical picture of how an investment performed. But the nominal rates are what you’ll see advertised on an investment product.


  Other factors affecting real rate of return  

The problem with real rate of return is that you don’t know what it is until it has already happened. That is, inflation for any given period is a trailing indicator, which can only be calculated after the relevant period has ended.



In addition, the real rate of return isn’t entirely accurate until it also accounts for other costs, such as taxes and investing fees.




What Is Trailing?
Trailing refers to the property of a measurement, indicator, or data series that reflects a past event or observation. It is usually attached to a specified time interval by which the data trail or over which that data is aggregated, summed, or averaged. Trailing data and indicators are used to reveal underlying trends but can delay recognition of trend turning points. Trailing can also refer to a type of stop order used by traders.




What Is the Difference Between a Real or a Nominal Interest Rate?
A real interest rate is an interest rate that has been adjusted to remove the effects of inflation to reflect the real cost of funds to the borrower and the real yield to the lender or to an investor. A nominal interest rate refers to the interest rate before taking inflation into account. Nominal can also refer to the advertised or stated interest rate on a loan, without taking into account any fees or compounding of interest.




What Is Inflation?
Inflation is the decline of purchasing power of a given currency over time. A quantitative estimate of the rate at which the decline in purchasing power occurs can be reflected in the increase of an average price level of a basket of selected goods and services in an economy over some period of time. The rise in the general level of prices, often expressed as a percentage, means that a unit of currency effectively buys less than it did in prior periods.
What Is Real Time?  

Real time is when a system relays information to a user at a speed that is near-instantaneous or has a short delay from when the event occurred. Online brokerages often provide a real-time data feed that displays stock quotes and their respective real-time changes, with a very insignificant lag time, so that clients can base their investing decisions on the most up-to-date information.





Key Takeaways

Real time refers to information that is relayed at the time it happens, or with only a short delay.In financial markets, real time is a reference to the price of a security and the accuracy of the pricing is crucial to market participants.Many financial networks, websites, and apps provide delayed quotes, which show where a stock or currency stood 15 or 20 minutes ago.Delayed quotes are usually enough information for a casual investor who isn’t looking to time the market.Some brokerages and certain paid services that traders use provide real-time, up-to-the-minute quotes.


   Understanding Real Time  

While many financial websites do offer free stock quotes to the general public, many of these feeds are not real-time feeds and may be delayed up to 20 minutes. Therefore, when viewing stock quotes from any financial website, be aware of the time that is posted near the stock quote to verify whether the quote is actually in real time.



Possessing accurate real-time quotes is especially important for traders, as even the smallest time discrepancy between a provided quote and the real-time situation can change a profitable position into a loss.






For rapid intra-day traders, especially, it can be critical to get real-time quotes instead of delayed quotes.


   Real-Time Stock Quotes vs. Delayed Stock Quotes  

Stock quotes reflect the results of actual trading on stock market exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ. Investors and traders can get quotes on the Dow Jones Industrial Average, other indices, or individual stocks from a number of financial news sources. However, some financial news services don’t report real-time information and instead delay stock quotes for 15 or 20 minutes. 



The prices of actively traded stocks can fluctuate dramatically from minute to minute or from second to second. That's why knowing the current price is imperative. In a rapidly rising or falling market, also known as a fast market, even real-time quotes can have a hard time keeping up. In that market scenario, a quote that’s delayed 15 or 20 minutes is virtually useless, as a stock's price could have moved by a significant percentage in that time frame.  



Delayed quotes are usually enough information for a casual investor who isn’t looking to time the market. For example, if a trader has a long-term portfolio of stocks they don’t intend to sell, they don’t need up-to-the-second price information. Even delayed stock quotes provide a general ballpark of where stocks and indexes are, and whether they are trending up or down.



Providing real-time quotes takes effort and technology; thus, this service has a cost. If firms don’t want to absorb this cost, they’ll only offer delayed quotes. Reuters, for example, provides lots of financial information, but its stock quotes are delayed at least 15 minutes. Financial news services often offer real-time quotes as a premium subscription service.
What Is Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)?  

The term "real-time gross settlement (RTGS)" refers to a funds transfer system that allows for the instantaneous transfer of money and/or securities. RTGS is the continuous process of settling payments on an individual order basis without netting debits with credits across the books of a central bank. Once completed, real-time gross settlement payments are final and irrevocable. In most countries, the systems are managed and run by their central banks.





Key Takeaways

Real-time gross settlement is the continuous process of settling interbank payments on an individual order basis across the books of a central bank. This system's process is opposed to netting debits with credits at the end of the day.Real-time gross settlement is generally employed for large-value interbank funds transfers.RTGS systems are increasingly used by central banks worldwide and can help minimize the risks related to high-value payment settlements among financial institutions.


   How Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) Works  

When you hear the term real-time, it means the settlement happens as soon as it is received. So, in simpler terms, the transaction settles in the receiving bank immediately after it is transferred from the sending bank. Gross settlement means transactions are handled and settled individually, so multiple transactions aren't bunched or grouped together. This is the basis of a real-time gross settlement system.



An RTGS system is generally used for large-value interbank funds transfers operated and organized by a country’s central bank. These transfers often require immediate and complete clearing. As mentioned above, once transactions are settled, they cannot be reversed.



In 1970, the U.S. Fedwire system was launched. It was the first system resembling a real-time gross settlement system. It was an evolution of the telegraph-based system used to transfer funds electronically between U.S. Federal Reserve banks.



The British system, called the Clearing House Automated Payment System (CHAPS), is currently run by the Bank of England. France and other Eurozone nations use a system called Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer System (TARGET2). Other developed and developing countries have also introduced their own RTGS-type systems.



Real-time gross settlement lessens settlement risk—also referred to as delivery risk—overall, as interbank settlement usually occurs in real-time throughout the day—instead of simply all together at the end of the day. This eliminates the risk of a lag in completing the transaction. RTGS can often incur a higher charge than processes that bundle and net payments.


   RTGS vs. Bankers' Automated Clearing Services (BACS)  

A real-time gross settlement system is different from net settlement systems, such as the United Kingdom’s Bacs Payment Schemes Limited, which was previously known as the Bankers' Automated Clearing Services (BACS). Transactions that take place between institutions with BACS are accumulated during the day. At the close of business, a central bank adjusts the active institutional accounts by the net amounts of the funds exchanged.



RTGS does not require an actual physical exchange of funds. A central bank will often adjust the accounts of the sending and receiving bank in electronic form. For example, sender Bank A's balance will be reduced by $1 million, while recipient institution Bank B’s balance will be increased by $1 million.


   Benefits of RTGS  

RTGS systems, increasingly used by central banks worldwide, can help minimize the risk to high-value payment settlements among financial institutions. Although companies and financial institutions that deal with sensitive financial data typically have high levels of security in place to protect information and funds, the range and nature of online threats are constantly evolving.






RTGS-type systems help protect financial data by making it vulnerable to hackers for a briefer time window.



Real-time gross settlement can allow a smaller window of time for critical information to be vulnerable, thus helping mitigate threats. Two common examples of cybersecurity threats to financial data are social engineering or phishing—tricking people into revealing their information—and data theft, whereby a hacker obtains and sells data to others.




What Is the Real-Time Gross Settlement Fee?
The fee for real-time gross settlement will vary depending on the institution/country in which the settlement occurs as well as the size of the transfer. There are times when the fees can be waived by the institution.




What Is an Example of a Real Time Gross Settlement System?
An example of a real-time gross settlement system would be when a customer has their bank send a transfer of funds to another bank via the RTGS and the transfer happens instantaneously. If this transfer was done via automated clearing house (ACH), the transfer may take a few days to clear.




What Is the Difference Between Net Settlement and Real-Time Gross Settlement?
 The difference between net settlement and real-time gross settlement (RTGS) is that net settlement involves aggregate data that is processed and settled at the end of the day whereas RTGS involves data with individual transactions in real-time (processed and settled instantly).


   The Bottom Line  

Real-time gross settlement (RTGS) is a key component of the financial system, settling interbank payments continuously, allowing for the instantaneous transfer of money/securities. RTGS systems reduce the risk to financial institutions in regard to high-value transfers.
What Is a Real-Time Quote (RTQ)?  

A real-time quote (RTQs) is the display of the actual price of a security at that very moment in time. Quotes are the price of a stock or security displayed on various websites and ticker tapes. In most cases, these figures are not real-time numbers of where the securities are trading but are delayed quotes. Delayed quotes, unlike real-time quotes, may lag the real trading market by between 15 and 20 minutes. Real-time quotes are instantaneous with no delay.





Key Takeaways

Real-time quotes show the instantaneous price and volume for a security, including the best bid and ask, versus a delayed quote—which has a 15-20 minute lag. Real-time quotes used to be a costly service but now are increasingly offered for free via online brokerage platforms.Real-time quotes are most often used by day and high-frequency traders. 


   Understanding a Real-Time Quote  

Real-time stock quotes, sometimes known as quote streaming services, are increasingly offered as a free add-on with many web-based financial sites and online brokerages. However, some providers will still charge an additional fee to gain access to them. Also, real-time pricing information for options and other securities may incur additional fees, as they are intended primarily for professional traders and firms.


   How a Real-Time Quote Works  

A standard quote on any security consists of a bid price and an ask or offer price and is a two-way pricing structure. In this structure, the bid price is the most any buyer is willing to pay for the share or the security.



Conversely, the asking price is the least amount the seller is willing to take for the share. The bidding price is what the sellers would receive for the security, and the asking (offer) price is what buyers must pay for the security. For example, the quote for a share of XYZ may appear as $23.25 to $23.30.



In this case, the most the buyer will pay is $23.25, and the least the seller will accept is $23.30. Further, the more volume that trades on a particular security will bring the bid and ask prices closer together.


   Special Considerations  

Historically, price quotes arrived via ticker tape which relied on telegraph technology. Over time, quotes began to be disseminated daily in newspapers and during television broadcasts. Brokerage customers who wanted a stock quote would rely on telephones where a broker would physically call down to a stock exchange and request a quote. With the rise of Internet-based online trading, the cost of providing real-time quotes dropped significantly and soon became ubiquitous as of the early 2010s.



Stock exchanges provide quotes to the public which vary with the amount of information available. Traders and investors using electronic trading methods may receive Level I, II, or III quotes. As the quotes move upward in level, more information is provided. However additional information will come at an additional cost.



Providing real-time quotes takes effort and technology and as such, costs more. If firms do not want to absorb this cost, they will only offer delayed quotes. Reuters, for example, provides quite a bit of financial information, but its stock quotes lag the market by 10 to 20 minutes as of 2021. Financial news services often offer real-time quotes as a premium subscription service.






Unless you're a day trader or high-frequency trader, delayed quotes are usually sufficient for monitoring a portfolio or placing an order for a stock you plan to hold for the long-term.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Real-Time Quotes  

Real-time quotes let investors or traders know the exact price for a stock they are trading at a moment-to-moment rate. In this way, they may have a far better idea of the price they will pay when having their order filled. If they base their cost on a delayed quote, they could find they significantly overpaid or luckily underpaid for the shares.



In a rapidly rising, or falling market, also known as a fast market, even real-time quotes can have a hard time keeping up. In that market scenario, a quote delayed by between 15 and 20 minutes is virtually useless, as a stock could have moved by a significant percentage in that time frame.



Delayed quotes are usually enough information for a casual investor who isn’t looking to time the market. For example, if a trader has a long-term portfolio of stocks and they don’t intend to sell immediately, they won't need up-to-the-second price information. Delayed quotes provide a general ballpark of where stocks and indexes are, and whether they are trending up or down.



But with the advent of ultra-fast high-frequency trading (HFT), the need for precise real-time price data is increasingly vital for the people who trade using this method. These traders rely on algorithms to the order of milliseconds. They use sophisticated communications technologies such as fiber-optics, millimeter-wave microwave transmission, and exchange co-location techniques to obtain ultra-real time information as well as send orders which can process immediately in the market.
What Is the Realization Multiple?  

The realization multiple is a private equity measurement that shows how much has been paid out to investors. The realization multiple measures the return that is realized from the investment. Private equity funds are unique in that they hold assets that are pulled together from all sorts of illiquid sources, including leveraged buyouts (LBO), start-ups and so on. The realization multiple is found by dividing the cumulative distributions from a fund, company or project by the paid-in capital.



The realization multiple is also referred to as distributed to paid-in capital (DPI).





Key Takeaways

The realization multiple is used in private equity to measure the actual money paid back to investors. The realization multiple is effectively the realized return to a private equity fund and may also be known as distributed paid-in capital.This multiple is a nominal rate of return, meaning that it does not account for inflation or the time value of money.


   The Formula for the Realization Multiple Is  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   How Realization Multiple Works  

The realization multiple is popular among venture capitalists and private equity fund investors. This is because it focuses on what has actually been paid out to investors. If a private equity fund is paying out money to investors year after year, its realization multiple will climb as there are more distributions in the books. This allows a private equity investor to easily spot a fund that is successful at returning money back to its investors.


   Realization Multiple as Part of the Whole  

The realization multiple does not tell the whole story of a private equity fund’s performance. It is combined with other measures like the investment multiple, the paid-in capital (PIC), the total value to paid in multiple (TVPI), and the residual value to paid in multiple (RVPI). Of course, the fund’s internal rate of return since inception is also used as a key measure. Investors are essentially searching for the funds that generate a large amount of return (investment multiple) and aren’t shy about returning some of it to investors on a regular basis.



As with most private equity measures, the realization multiple ignores the time value of money. This differentiates the realization multiple from other valuation methods, such as internal rate of return or net present value. Private equity funds are difficult to evaluate due to the types of investments they hold. There isn’t a deep market that can establish valuation on a daily basis, so investors have to make guesses and leaps of faith when it comes to putting a number on the residual value. The realization multiple strips some of the uncertainty away and zeros in on what investors have seen from this fund in actual returned funds and, by extension, what is reasonable to expect in the future. The caveat is that in the world of private equity investing, past events only influence future events to a limited extent. All it takes is for a financing shift, and LBOs or heavily leveraged startups have a steeper hill to climb before a future exit strategy through an initial public offering (IPO).
What Is a Realized Gain?  

A realized gain results from selling an asset at a price higher than the original purchase price. It occurs when an asset is sold at a level that exceeds its book value cost.



While an asset may be carried on a balance sheet at a level far above cost, any gains while the asset is still being held are considered unrealized as the asset is only being valued at fair market value. If selling an asset results in a loss, there is a realized loss instead.



A realized gain can be compared with an unrealized gain.





Key Takeaways

A realized gain is when an investment is sold for a higher price than it was purchased.Realized gains are often subject to capital gains tax. Depending on the holding period, it will be considered either a short-term or long-term gain.If a gain exists on paper but has not yet been sold, it is considered an unrealized gain.


   How Realized Gains Work  

Realized gains and unrealized gains vary considerably. Realized gains are those that have been actualized by selling an existing position for more than what was paid for it. An unrealized ("paper") gain, on the other hand, is one that has not been realized yet.






Realized gains result in a taxable event, but unrealized gains are typically not taxed. They add to an asset’s originally reported book value at the time of purchase and can occur on all types of assets and investments held by a company.


   Balance Sheet Elimination  

Realized gains may occur through the sale of an asset when a company chooses to eliminate it from the balance sheet. Asset sales can occur for various reasons and purposes and are reported on the financial statements of a company during the period in which the asset sale takes place.



Asset sales are regularly monitored to ensure the asset is sold at fair market value or arm’s length price. This regulation ensures companies are valuing the sale appropriately in the marketplace and takes into consideration whether the asset is sold to a related or unrelated party.



When an asset is sold, a realized profit is achieved, and the firm predictably sees an increase in its current assets and a gain from the sale. The realized gain from the sale of the asset may lead to an increased tax burden since realized gains from sales are typically taxable income. This is one drawback of selling an asset and turning an unrealized "paper" gain into a realized gain.



In most business cases, companies do not incur any tax until a realized and tangible profit occurs.


   Realized vs. Unrealized Gains  

While realized gains are actualized, an unrealized gain is a potential profit that exists on paper, resulting from an investment. It is an increase in the value of an asset that has yet to be sold for cash, such as a stock position that has increased in value but still remains open. A gain becomes realized once the position is sold for a profit.



When unrealized gains present, it usually means an investor believes the investment has room for higher future gains. Otherwise, they would sell now and recognize the current gain. Additionally, unrealized gains sometimes come about because holding an investment for an extended time period lowers the tax burden of the gain.



For example, if an investor holds a stock for longer than one year, their tax rate is reduced to the long-term capital gains tax. Further, if an investor wants to move the capital gains tax burden to another tax year, they can sell the stock in January of a proceeding year, rather than selling in the current year.



Investors should also note the distinction between realized gains and realized income. Realized income refers to income that you have earned and received, such as income from wages or a salary as well as income from interest or dividend payments.
What Is a Realized Loss?  

A realized loss is the loss that is recognized when assets are sold for a price lower than the original purchase price. Realized loss occurs when an asset that was purchased at a level referred to as cost or book value is then disbursed for a value below its book value.





Key Takeaways

A realized loss is the sale of an asset below the price at which it was acquired.This kind of recorded loss is available as a tax write-off for both individuals and businesses.Realized losses are different from unrealized losses that only exist on paper.


   Understanding Realized Loss  

When an investor buys a capital asset, an increase (or decrease) in the value of the security does not translate to a profit (or loss). The investor can only make a claim to a profit or loss after he has sold the security at fair market value in an arm’s length transaction.﻿﻿


   Real World Example of Realized Loss for Investors  

For example, assume an investor purchases 50 shares of Exwhyzee (XYZ) at $249.50 per share on March 20. From this purchase date to April 9, the value of the stock declined by about 13.7% to $215.41. However, the investor only has a realized loss if he actually sells at the depressed price. Otherwise, the decline in value is simply an unrealized loss which only exists on paper.



Realized losses, unlike unrealized losses, can affect the amount of taxes owed. A realized capital loss can be used to offset capital gains for tax purposes. From our example above, the investor, after selling his XYZ stocks, realized a loss of 50 x ($249.50 – $215.41) = $1,704.50. Suppose he realized a profit on Aybeecee (ABC), which he purchased for $201.07 and sold for $336.06 during the same tax year.



If he purchased and sold 50 ABC shares, his capital gain on the transaction will be recognized as 50 x ($336.06 – $201.07) = $6,749.50. Applying the realized loss to this gain means that the investor will only owe taxes on $6,749.50 – $1,704.50 = $5,045, rather than the entire capital gains amount.



In addition, if the realized losses for a given tax year exceed the realized gains, up to $3,000 of the remaining losses can be deducted from the taxpayer’s taxable income. Also, if net losses exceed the given $3,000 limit, the remainder can be carried forward to future years.﻿﻿



This practice is called tax-loss harvesting, and discount brokers have added features to their desktop and mobile apps in recent years to help investors with this process.


   How Realized Loss Works for Businesses  

A realized loss occurs when the sale price of an asset is lower than its carrying amount. Although the asset may have been held on the balance sheet at a fair value level below cost, the loss only becomes realized once the asset is off the books. An asset is removed from the books when it is sold, scrapped, or donated by the company.



One upside to a realized loss is the possible tax advantage. In most instances, a portion of the realized loss may be applied against a capital gain or realized profit to reduce taxes. This may be quite desirable for a company looking to limit its tax burden, and firms may actually go out of their way to realize losses in periods where their tax bill is expected to be higher than wished.



In effect, a business may choose to realize losses on as many assets as possible when it would otherwise have to pay taxes on realized profits or capital gains.
What Is Realized Yield?  

Realized yield is the actual return earned during the holding period for an investment. It may include dividends, interest payments, and other cash distributions. The term "realized yield" can be applied to a bond sold before its maturity date or a dividend-paying security. Generally speaking, the realized yield on bonds includes the coupon payments received during the holding period, plus or minus the change in the value of the original investment, calculated on an annual basis.





Key Takeaways

Realized yield is the actual return earned during the holding period for an investment, and it may include dividends, interest payments, and other cash distributions.The realized yield on investments with maturity dates is likely to differ from the stated yield to maturity under most circumstances.In the bond market, it is common to use the terms "realized yield" and "realized return" interchangeably.The term "realized yield" is applied to bonds, CDs, and fixed-income funds, but "realized return" is generally the preferred term for stocks.


   Understanding Realized Yield  

The realized yield on investments with maturity dates is likely to differ from the stated yield to maturity (YTM) under most circumstances. One exception occurs when a bond is purchased and sold at face value, which is also the redemption price of the bond at maturity. For example, a bond with a coupon of 5% that is purchased and sold at face value delivers a realized yield of 5% for the holding period. The same bond redeemed at face value when it matures provides a yield to maturity of 5%. In all other circumstances, realized yields are calculated based on payments received and the change in the value of principal relative to the amount invested.



The realized yield is what a bond market participant actually gets, which is not necessarily the stated yield to maturity. Given identical credit quality, a one-year bond with a 3% coupon and a principal of $100 selling at $102 is roughly equivalent to a one-year bond with a 1% coupon selling at face value. We express this equivalence by stating that both of these bonds have a yield to maturity of about 1%. However, suppose the market interest rate falls half a percentage point one month later, and one-year bond prices rise about 0.5% in response to lower rates. If the investor sells the bonds after only that one month without collecting any coupon payments, the result is a realized yield of a little over 6% on an annual basis.



Realized yield is also an exceptionally useful concept for evaluating high-yield bonds. Realized yield gives investors a way to deal with the fact that some high-yield bonds almost always default.






The realized yield of a high-yield bond fund is likely to be lower than its yield to maturity because of defaults.



An example will help to illustrate how realized yield works in the high-yield bond market. Suppose that interest rates and overall default risk stay the same for a particular year. In that year, one-year Treasuries are offering a yield to maturity of 0.5%. At the same time, a high-yield bond fund has a yield to maturity of 5%, but 3% of the bonds default during the year. The realized yield for the high-yield bond fund was just 2% because of the defaults, compared to the yield to maturity of 5%. On the other hand, the realized yield was 0.5% for the Treasuries, which was identical with their yield to maturity.


   Realized Yield vs. Realized Return  

Realized yield, like realized return, is simply how much money the investor actually made. In the bond market, it is common to use the terms "realized yield" and "realized return" interchangeably. However, the term "realized return" is typically used instead of "realized yield" in the stock market. High dividend yield stocks are the major exception.


   Types of Realized Yields  
  Bonds  

Realized yield is the total return when an investor sells a bond before maturity. For example, a bond maturing in three years with a 3% coupon purchased at face value of $1,000 has a yield to maturity of 3%. If the bond is sold precisely one year after purchase at $960, the loss of principal is 4%. The coupon payment of 3% brings the realized yield to a negative 1%. Instead, suppose such a bond is sold after a year at $1,020 for a 2% gain in principal. In this case, the realized yield increases to 5% due to the 3% coupon payment.


  Early CD Withdrawal  

Certificate of deposit investors who cash out before the maturity date often have to pay a penalty. On a two-year CD, the typical charge for early withdrawal is six months of interest. For example, say an investor who cashes out a two-year CD that pays 1% after one year accrues $1,000 of interest. The penalty of six months equates to $500. After paying this fee, the investor gets $500 over one year for a realized yield of 0.5%.


  Fixed-Income Funds  

The calculation for realized yield also applies to exchange traded funds (ETFs) and other investment vehicles without maturity dates. For example, an investor who holds an ETF paying 4% interest for exactly two years and sells for a 2% gain, earned 4% per year in interest. The increase in principal is spread out over the two-year holding period for a 1% gain per year, bringing the realized yield to 5% per year.
What Is a Realtor?  

A realtor is a real estate professional who is a member of the National Association of Realtors (NAR), a professional association. The NAR defines the term realtor as a federally registered collective membership mark that identifies a real estate professional who is a member of the association and subscribes to its code of ethics.





Key Takeaways

A realtor is a real estate professional who is a member of the National Association of Realtors (NAR), a professional association.Professionals who may hold the title of realtor include agents who work as residential and commercial real estate brokers, salespeople, and property managers.Realtors are expected to be experts in their field.They must follow the NAR’s code of ethics, which requires agents to uphold a certain standard of duty when working with clients.Compliance with the code of ethics became a requisite for membership in 1924.


   Understanding Realtors  

Professionals who hold the title of realtor include agents who work as residential and commercial real estate brokers, salespeople, property managers, appraisers, counselors, and other real estate professionals.



The term realtor is a registered trademark. As of October 2021, there were 1,564,547 realtors. That broke down as 68% real estate agents, 20% real estate brokers, and 13% associate brokers. Realtors must belong to both a local association or board and a state association.



Realtors are expected to be experts in their field and must follow the NAR’s code of ethics, which requires agents to uphold a specific standard of duty to clients and customers, the public, and other realtors.



Among its many requirements, the code of ethics says that realtors "shall avoid exaggeration, misrepresentation, or concealment of pertinent facts relating to the property or the transaction.”



The code also states that realtors “shall be honest and truthful in their real estate communications and shall present a true picture in their advertising, marketing, and other representations.”



Furthermore, realtors must “pledge themselves to protect and promote the interests of their client” while treating all parties to the transaction honestly.





1,564,547

The number of realtors as of October 2021.


   Guidelines for Using the Realtor Trademark  

The NAR maintains stringent rules on the use of the realtor trademark. Professionals who hold membership as a realtor or realtor-associate on a member board are licensed to use realtor trademarks in connection with their name and the name of their real estate business.



The realtor trademark is prohibited from being used as part of the legal corporate name of members of the association. According to the NAR, this is done to avoid the legal issues involved with a corporate name change if a member were suspended or expelled from the association and lost the right to use the trademark.



Furthermore, the NAR’s guidelines state that if a qualified member uses the realtor trademark as part of their name, it must appear in all capital letters and be set off from the member’s name by punctuation.



The NAR does not use the realtor trademark with descriptive terms or as a description of the vocation the way terms such as real estate broker, agent, and licensee are used. The association also says that realtor trademarks are not to be used as a designation of the licensed status of a professional.




When Was the National Association of Realtors Started?
The NAR was founded as the National Association of Real Estate Exchanges in 1908. At the time, it had 120 members, 19 boards and a single state association.




What Is the Realtor Code of Ethics?
The Code of Ethics & Professional Standards is a set of rules focused on fair and honest behavior that members pledge to abide by. They concern the manner in which clients must be treated and conflicts should be handled. The Code of Ethics holds members to a high moral standard.




How Are Real Estate Agents Different From Realtors?
Real estate agents are individuals who are licensed by their state to help people buy and sell real estate. Realtors are real estate agents who have opted to become members of the National Association of Realtors. NAR members have access to a wealth of training, tools, and data to help them provide their clients with a completely professional experience.
What Is Rebalancing?  

Rebalancing refers to the process of returning the values of a portfolio's asset allocations to the levels defined by an investment plan. Those levels are intended to match an investor's tolerance for risk and desire for reward.



Over time, asset allocations can change as market performance alters the values of the assets. Rebalancing involves periodically buying or selling the assets in a portfolio to regain and maintain that original, desired level of asset allocation.



Take a portfolio with an original target asset allocation of 50% stocks and 50% bonds. If the stocks' prices rose during a certain period of time, their higher value could increase their allocation proportion within the portfolio to, say, 70%. The investor may then decide to sell some stocks and buy bonds to realign the percentages back to the original target allocation of 50%-50%.





Key Takeaways

Rebalancing is the act of adjusting a portfolio's changed asset allocation to match an original allocation defined by an investor's risk and reward profile.There are several types of strategies for rebalancing, such as calendar, constant-mix, and portfolio-insurance.Calendar rebalancing is the least costly but is not responsive to market fluctuations.The constant-mix strategy is responsive but more costly to use than calendar rebalancing.Costs of rebalancing can include transaction fees, inadvertent exposure to higher risk, and selling assets as they are increasing in value.


   How Rebalancing Works  

Portfolio rebalancing aims to protect investors from exposure to undesirable risks while providing exposure to reward. It can also ensure that a portfolio's exposure remains within the portfolio manager's area of expertise.



There are times when a stock's price performance can vary more dramatically than that of bonds. Therefore, a portfolio's percentage of equity-related assets should be assessed as market conditions change. If the value of equities in a portfolio causes the allocation in stocks to rise above their preset percentage, a rebalancing may be in order. That would involve selling some shares of stock to lower the overall percentage of equities in the portfolio.



Investors may also wish to adjust their overall portfolio risk to meet changing financial needs. For instance, an investor who needs a greater potential for return might increase the allocation in assets that involve higher risk, such as equities, to improve that potential. Or, if income becomes more important than it was before, the allocation of bonds could be increased.



Some investors may mistakenly understand rebalancing to refer to adjusting for an even distribution of assets. However, a 50%-50% stock and bond split is not required. A portfolio's target allocation of assets just as easily could be 70% stocks and 30% bonds, 40% stocks and 60% bonds, or 10% cash, 40% stocks, and 50% bonds. The allocation depends on the goals and needs of an investor.


  When to Rebalance  

While there is no required schedule for rebalancing a portfolio, it's recommended that investors examine allocations at least once every year. Investors don't have to rebalance but generally, that's ill-advised.



Rebalancing gives investors the opportunity to sell high and buy low, taking the gains from high-performing investments and reinvesting them in areas that are expected to see notable growth.






An investment plan—where asset allocations and rebalancing are defined—can range from a simple idea or strategy created by an individual to a multi-page package developed by a portfolio manager. An investment plan can help ensure that every investor takes needed actions, including rebalancing, and avoids inappropriate steps that could affect a portfolio's return negatively.


   Types of Rebalancing  
  Calendar Rebalancing  

Calendar rebalancing is the most rudimentary rebalancing approach. This strategy involves analyzing and adjusting the investment holdings within the portfolio at predetermined times.



Many long-term investors rebalance once a year. Other types of investors with different outlooks and goals may rebalance quarterly, or even monthly. Weekly rebalancing could be overly expensive and unnecessary.



The ideal frequency of rebalancing must be determined based on an investor's time constraints, threshold for transaction costs, and allowance for value drift. Advantages of calendar rebalancing over more responsive methods are that it is less time consuming and costly for the investor since it involves fewer rebalancing occasions and potentially fewer trades. However, a downside is that it does not call for rebalancing at other dates even if the market moves significantly.


  Constant-Mix Rebalancing  

A more responsive approach to rebalancing focuses on the allowable percentage composition of an asset in a portfolio. This is known as a constant-mix strategy with bands or corridors.



Every asset class, or individual security, is given a target weight and a corresponding tolerance range. For example, an allocation strategy might include the requirement to hold 30% in emerging market equities, 30% in domestic blue chips and 40% in government bonds with a corridor of +/- 5% for each asset class.



Therefore, emerging market and domestic blue chip holdings can both fluctuate between 25% and 35%. At the same time, 35% to 45% of the portfolio must be allocated to government bonds. When the weight of any one holding moves outside of its allowable band, the entire portfolio is rebalanced to reflect the initial target composition.


  Constant Proportion Portfolio Insurance  

The most intensive rebalancing strategy commonly used is constant proportion portfolio insurance (CPPI) is a type of portfolio insurance that allows the investor to set a floor on the dollar value of their portfolio and structure the asset allocation on it.



The asset classes in CPPI are styled as a risky asset, such as equities or mutual funds, and a conservative asset of either cash, cash equivalents, or treasury bonds.



The percentage allocated to each depends on a cushion value, defined as the current portfolio value minus some floor value, and a multiplier coefficient. The greater the multiplier number, the more aggressive the rebalancing strategy.



The outcome of the CPPI strategy is somewhat similar to that of buying a synthetic call option that does not use actual option contracts. CPPI is sometimes referred to as a convex strategy.


  Smart Beta Rebalancing  

Smart beta rebalancing is a periodic rebalancing similar to the regular rebalancing that indexes undergo to adjust to changes in stock value and market capitalization.



Smart beta strategies take a rules-based approach to avoid the market inefficiencies that creep into index investing due to the reliance on market capitalization. Smart beta rebalancing uses additional criteria, such as value as defined by performance measures like book value or return on capital, to allocate the holdings across a selection of stocks.



This rules-based method of portfolio creation adds a layer of systematic analysis to the investment that simple index investing lacks. 



Although smart beta rebalancing is more active than simply using index investing to mimic the overall market, it is less active than stock picking. One of the key features of smart beta rebalancing is that emotions are taken out of the process.



Depending on how the rules are set up, an investor may end up trimming exposure to their top performers and increasing exposure to less stellar performers. This runs counter to the old adage of letting your winners run, but the periodic rebalancing realizes the profits regularly rather than trying to time market sentiment for maximum profit.



Smart beta can also be used to rebalance across asset classes if the proper parameters are set. In this case, the risk-weighted returns are often used to compare different types of investments and adjust exposure accordingly.  


   Examples of Rebalancing  
  Rebalancing Retirement Accounts  

One of the most common areas investors look to rebalance are the allocations within their retirement accounts. Asset performance impacts the overall value, and many investors prefer to invest more aggressively at younger ages and more conservatively as they approach retirement age.



Often, the portfolio is at its most conservative once the investor prepares to draw out the funds to supply retirement income. So, over the years, a portfolio may be rebalanced to reflect an increasingly greater allocation in fixed income securities.


  Rebalancing for Diversification  

Depending on market performance, investors may find a large number of assets held within one area. For example, should the value of stock X increase by 25% while stock Y only gained 5%, a large amount of the value in the portfolio is tied to stock X.



Should stock X experience a sudden downturn, the portfolio will suffer higher losses by association. Rebalancing lets the investor redirect some of the funds currently held in stock X to another investment, be that more of stock Y or purchasing a new stock entirely.



By having funds spread out across multiple stocks, a downturn in one will be partially offset by the activities of the others, which can provide a level of portfolio stability.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Rebalancing  
  Advantages  

Rebalancing can keep investors' portfolios aligned with their risk tolerance and need for a certain amount of return.It maintains a pre-determined asset allocation set by an investment plan.It's a disciplined, unemotional investment approach that can reduce exposure to risk.It can be changed as investors' financial needs and investment goals change.Rebalancing can be done by experienced individual investors or handled by portfolio managers.


  Disadvantages  

Rebalancing involves transaction costs, which may reduce net income.Selling securities that have increased in value to rebalance a portfolio might lead to investors missing out on an upward price trend of those securities.Investing knowledge and experience is required to rebalance as needed and reduce exposure to risk appropriately.Unnecessary rebalancing can increase costs for an investor.




What Does Rebalancing a Portfolio Mean?
It means selling and buying the necessary securities to bring the value of each allocation in a portfolio back to the level established by an investment plan.




Does Rebalancing Have Costs?
Yes, it does. It involves the fees related to the transactions to purchase and sell securities. It can also involve the cost of performance. For example, to rebalance, you might sell securities that have increased in value and pushed your allocations out of whack. However, you could miss out on a continued upswing in prices that those securities experience. By making rebalancing part of an investment plan that you commit to, you'll be aware of (and can accept) these and other potential costs in advance.




How Often Should I Rebalance?
That depends on your investment goals, risk tolerance, and financial needs. For example, long-term investors who take a buy and hold approach to the markets might consider reviewing their allocations once a year with their financial advisors to see if rebalancing is warranted. Other investors with shorter-term goals may wish to rebalance more frequently to be sure they stay on track to meet those goals.
What Is a Rebate?  

In a short-sale transaction, a rebate is a portion of interest or dividends that is paid by a short seller to the owner of the stock or bond shares being sold short. Short selling requires a margin account. 



Broadly speaking, a rebate is a sum of money that is credited or returned to a customer on completion of a transaction. A rebate may offer cashback on the purchase of a consumer product or service. This may be a flat-rate rebate which is automatically subtracted from the purchase price, or a conditional rebate, which is only valid under certain conditions, such as "buy one, get one free." Some conditional rebates require the purchaser to submit a form along with proof of payment to the company offering the cashback.





Key Takeaways

A rebate is a credit paid to a buyer of a portion of the amount paid for a product or service.In a short sale, a rebate is a fee that the borrower of stock pays to the investor who loaned the stock.Rebates on securities are facilitated by margin accounts, which have balances that are calculated daily based on the stock's price movements.


   Understanding Rebates  

Businesses offer rebates for many reasons, mainly because they are a potent marketing tool, drawing customers who are attracted to the prospect of receiving cash back on expensive items.



While companies sometimes take a loss on a rebated product, they often find a way to squeeze out a profit on them. And even when they do take a loss, customers who purchase items with rebates may buy other items in the store, giving the business a net profit.



Some companies "price protect" certain products by offering rebates on others, hoping that sales of products with rebates will allow them to keep other products at a higher price point.


  Mail-in  

The mail-in rebate is one of the most familiar types of consumer rebates.



Since they require a certain amount of effort, some consumers fail to take advantage of them. Many businesses take this into account when deciding to offer a mail-in rebate. Knowing in advance that only a certain proportion of customers will take the cashback, companies can estimate an average price reduction less than the rebate amount.


  Vehicle Rebates  

Rebates are commonly offered on sales of new vehicles.



Typically, the vehicle manufacturer pays for the rebate rather than the dealer. The manufacturer gives money to the dealer, who then transfers it to the consumer.



By law, dealers must pass on the full amount of the rebate to the customer, provided the customer qualifies for it.



Rebates sometimes harm the resale value of vehicles since they effectively lower their sticker price.


   Rebates vs. Discounts and Reduced Interest Rates  

Rebates are collected after payment, while discounts are taken before purchase. Discounts are more likely to be offered by retailers, while rebates are more likely to be offered by manufacturers, such as automakers.



Reduced interest rates, by contrast, lower the monthly payments on large purchases such as vehicles.



Car shoppers are sometimes presented with a choice of a rebate or a reduced interest rate when purchasing a car. The rebate option will give the buyer more immediate cash in hand, but a lower interest rate can provide more significant savings in the long run.


   Rebates in Securities Trading  

A short seller in the financial markets is betting that a stock or other asset will decline in price.



Short sellers sell securities that they do not own. In order to do that, the trader must first borrow the stock from its owner and deliver it to the buyer. When the trader places a short sale trade, the stock must be delivered to the buyer on the trade settlement date.



The goal of selling short is to profit from a price decline in a stock by buying it at a lower price after the sale.



Selling short exposes the seller to unlimited risk since the price of the shares that must be purchased can increase by an unlimited amount. That said, a trader can exit a short sale at any time to cap the risk.



If dividends are paid during the period that the stock is borrowed, the borrower must pay the dividends to the lender. Similarly, if bonds are sold short, any interest paid on the borrowed bond must be forwarded to the lender.



When a short seller borrows shares, the seller or the seller's broker might pay a rebate fee with interest to the lender of the shares.



It is difficult for individual investors to qualify for a rebate as it requires holding a substantial sum in a trading account. Generally, large institutions, market makers, and traders with broker/dealer status are beneficiaries of rebates.


  Short Sale Rebate Fee  

When a short seller borrows shares to make delivery to the buyer, the seller must pay a rebate fee. This fee depends on the dollar amount of the sale and the availability of the shares in the marketplace. If the shares are difficult or expensive to borrow, the rebate fee will be higher.



In some instances, the brokerage firm will force the short seller to buy the securities in the market before the settlement date. This is referred to as a forced buy-in. A brokerage firm may require a forced buy-in if it believes that the shares might not be available on the settlement date.



Before going short, a trader should check with their broker what the short sale rebate fee is for that stock. If the fee is too high, it may not be worth shorting the stock.


  How Margin Accounts Are Used in Short Stock Rebates  

The Federal Reserve Board’s Regulation T requires that all short sale trades must be placed in a margin account. A margin account requires the investor to deposit 150% of the value of the short sale trade. So, for example, if an investor’s short sale totals $10,000, the required deposit is $15,000.



Since short sellers are exposed to unlimited losses, a substantial deposit is required to protect the brokerage firm from potential losses in a customer’s account. If the price of the security increases, the short seller will be asked to deposit more money to protect against larger losses. If the price continues to rise on a position, causing a larger loss, and the borrower is unable to deposit more capital, the short position will be liquidated.



The borrower is liable for all losses, even if those losses are greater than the capital in the account. 



For example, assume a trader shorts 100 shares at $50. They are short $5,000 worth of stock and are therefore required to maintain a balance of 50% more than that, or $7,500. If the stock drops, there is no problem, since the short seller is making money. But if the stock rises rapidly, the trader could face significant losses and may be required to put more money in the account.



If the stock jumps overnight to $80 per share and the trader is unable to get out before that, it will cost them $8,000 to get out of that position. The trader must increase the account capital to $12,000 to keep the trade open, or exit the trade and take the loss. If they take the loss, it is -$30 per share, multiplied by 100 shares, which is -$3,000. This will be deducted from the $7,500 balance, leaving them with only $4,500, minus fees.


   Example of a Rebate  

Suppose a trader borrows $10,000 worth of stock ABC with the intention of shorting it. The trader has agreed to a 5% simple interest rate on the trade settlement date. This means that the trader's account balance should be $10,500 by the time the trade is settled.



The trader is responsible for transferring $500 to the investor, or the person they borrowed the shares from to make the trade, on the trade settlement date.
What Is Recapitalization?  

Recapitalization is the process of restructuring a company's debt and equity mixture, often to stabilize a company's capital structure. The process mainly involves the exchange of one form of financing for another, such as removing preferred shares from the company's capital structure and replacing them with bonds.





Key Takeaways:

Recapitalization is the restructuring of a company's debt and equity ratio.The purpose of recapitalization is to stabilize a company's capital structure. Some of the reasons a company may consider recapitalization include a drop in its share price, to defend against a hostile takeover, or bankruptcy.


   Understanding Recapitalization  

Recapitalization is a strategy a company can use to improve its financial stability or overhaul its financial structure. To accomplish this, the company must change its debt-to-equity ratio by adding more debt or more equity to its capital. There are many reasons why a company may consider recapitalization including:



A fall in share price
To protect itself against a hostile takeover
To reduce financial obligations and minimize taxes
To provide venture capitalists with an exit strategy
Bankruptcy



When a company's debt decreases in proportion to its equity, it has less leverage. Its earnings per share (EPS) should decrease following the change. But its shares would be incrementally less risky since the company has fewer debt obligations, which require interest payments and return of principal upon maturity. Without the requirements of debt, the company can return more of its profits and cash to shareholders.


  Reasons to Consider Recapitalization  

Several factors motivate a company to recapitalize. A company may decide to use it as a strategy to defend itself against a hostile takeover. The target company's management may decide to issue more debt to make it less attractive to the potential acquirer.



Another reason may be to reduce its financial obligations. Higher debt levels compared to equity means higher interest payments. By trading in debt for equity, the company can reduce the level of debt and, therefore, the amount of interest it pays to its creditors. This, in turn, improves the company's overall financial wellbeing.



Furthermore, recapitalization is a viable strategy to help keep share prices from dropping. If a company finds that its shares are declining in value, it may decide to swap equity for debt to push the stock price back up.



Some companies may also use recapitalization to minimize their tax payments, implement an exit strategy for venture capitalists, or reorganize themselves during a bankruptcy. Companies often use this as a way to diversify their debt-to-equity ratio to improve liquidity.


  Types of Recapitalization  

Companies can swap debt for equity or vice versa for many reasons. An example of equity replacing debt in the capital structure is when a company issues stock to buy back debt securities, increasing its proportion of equity capital compared to its debt capital. This is called an equity recapitalization.



Debt investors require routine payments and a return of principal upon maturity, so a swap of debt for equity helps a company maintain its cash and use the cash generated from operations for business purposes, reinvestment, or capital returns to equity holders.



On the other hand, a company may issue debt and use the cash to buy back shares or issue dividends, effectively recapitalizing the company by increasing the proportion of debt in the capital structure. Another benefit of taking on more debt is that interest payments are tax-deductible while dividends are not. By paying interest on debt securities, a company can decrease its tax bill and increase the amount of capital returned in total to both debt and equity investors.






Governments may buy back shares to get a controlling interest in a company important to a nation's economy through nationalization—another form of recapitalization.



Governments also partake in the mass recapitalization of their countries' banking sectors during times of financial crisis and when the solvency and liquidity of banks and the greater financial system come into question. For example, the U.S. government recapitalized the country's banking sector with various forms of equity to keep the banks and the financial system solvent and maintain liquidity through the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) in 2008.﻿﻿
What Is a Receipt?  

A receipt is a written acknowledgment that something of value has been transferred from one party to another. In addition to the receipts consumers typically receive from vendors and service providers, receipts are also issued in business-to-business dealings as well as stock market transactions.





Key Takeaways

Receipts are an official record that represents proof of a financial transaction or purchase.Receipts are issued in business-to-business dealings as well as stock market transactions.Receipts are also necessary for tax purposes as proof of certain expenses.In accounting, receipts can also refer to the total cash inflows over a specific period of time.A typical receipt states the time and value of a transaction, and may also include information on the type of service or product being provided, the method of payment, and any additional taxes or fees.



For example, the holder of a futures contract is generally given a delivery instrument, which acts as a receipt in that it can be exchanged for the underlying asset when the futures contract expires.


   How a Receipt Works  

Receipts are used to document payments and business transactions. Companies and other entities use receipts to track their cash flows, reimburse eligible payments, or claim certain benefits on their taxes. In some countries, businesses are required to provide a receipt for each transaction.



Each receipt should include the date of the transaction. In most cases, they include other details such as the nature of the transaction, details of the vendor, method of payment, and any additional taxes or costs. In some cases, they may require a signature.



While receipts were once written out by hand, today they are automatically generated at the point-of-sale.


   Types of Receipts  

In addition to showing ownership, receipts are important for other reasons. For instance, many retailers insist that a customer must show a receipt to exchange or return items while others demand that a receipt—generally issued within a certain timeframe—be produced for product warranty purposes. Receipts can also be important for taxes because the IRS requires documentation of certain expenses. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) suggests that the following types of receipts if generated, be retained by small businesses:



Gross receipts such as cash register tapes, deposit information (cash and credit sales), receipt books, invoices, forms 1099-MISCReceipts from purchases and raw materials (These should show the amount paid and confirm that they were necessary business purchases; documents could include canceled checks or other documents that identify the payee, amount, and proof of payment/electronic fund transfers.)Cash register tape receiptsCredit card receipts and statementsInvoicesPetty cash slips for small cash payments


   Origin of Receipts  

The practice of retaining receipts for tax purposes is thought to originate from ancient Egypt. Farmers and merchants sought ways to document transactions to avoid tax exploitation. Papyrus was used instead of paper. In more modern times, London banks used the printing presses of the industrial revolution to print receipts with their own brands.





Fast Fact

Thermal printing is the most commonly used form of physical receipt printing because it is low cost and easy to use. Today, however, paper receipts are increasingly giving way to electronic receipts in the form of emails or other digital record.


   IRS Requirements for Digital Receipts  

Digital receipts are becoming the norm. Since 1997, the IRS has accepted scanned and digital receipts as valid records for tax purposes. Revenue Procedure 97-22 states that digital receipts must be accurate, easily stored, preserved, retrieved, and reproduced. The business owner must be able to supply a copy to the IRS.



Digital records are not subject to wear and tear as are physical receipts, but they can be lost if a hard drive fails. It's thus wise to store them on the cloud or somewhere where they can always be accessed.



Paper receipts can be stored digitally using desktop scanners and mobile phone apps. This type of technology can organize, create expense reports, and integrate data with bookkeeping software.






For tax audit purposes, not all documentation is valid. The IRS accepts various documentation as long as it details the amount, place, date, and type of expense. 




What Are the Types of Receipts?
Common examples of receipts include packing slips, cash register tape, invoices, credit card statements, petty cash slips, and invoices. Although the format for these forms may vary, they all serve the same purpose of documenting the time and value of a business transaction.




Is an Invoice the Same As a Receipt?
An invoice is a request for payment, while a receipt is a document for payment that has already occurred. Businesses frequently use invoices after providing a service to notify the customer of the expected payment.




What Are Gross Receipts?
Gross receipts are the total amount of cash or property that a business receives, without accounting for any other expenses or deductions. Accountants use a company's gross receipts as one factor to calculate the firm's net income and profitability.




What Are Read Receipts?
Read receipts are used in emails to determine if a message has been opened or read by the recipient. They are used in a similar way to mail delivery receipts, as proof that a message has been delivered.




How Long Should You Keep Receipts for Taxes?
For most expenses, you should keep receipts and other records for three years after filing taxes, as this is how long it takes for the period of limitations to run out. However, for some types of expenses—such as unreported income or bad debt deductions—the IRS advises you to keep records for six or even seven years. If you do not file a return or file a fraudulent return, you should keep your records indefinitely.


   The Bottom Line  

Receipts are one of the basic units of corporate accounting. Businesses use may use receipts as proof of payment, to claim deductions on their taxes, and to document expenditures on their income statements as well as to substantiate the existence of the assets on their balance sheets.
What Are Accounts Receivable (AR)?  

Accounts receivable (AR) are the balance of money due to a firm for goods or services delivered or used but not yet paid for by customers. Accounts receivable are listed on the balance sheet as a current asset. Any amount of money owed by customers for purchases made on credit is AR.





Key Takeaways

Accounts receivable (AR) are an asset account on the balance sheet that represents money due to a company in the short term.Accounts receivable are created when a company lets a buyer purchase their goods or services on credit.Accounts payable are similar to accounts receivable, but instead of money to be received, they are money owed. The strength of a company’s AR can be analyzed with the accounts receivable turnover ratio or days sales outstanding. A turnover ratio analysis can be completed to have an expectation of when the AR will actually be received.












Joules Garcia / Investopedia


   Understanding Accounts Receivable  

Accounts receivable refer to the outstanding invoices that a company has or the money that clients owe the company. The phrase refers to accounts that a business has the right to receive because it has delivered a product or service. Accounts receivable, or receivables, represent a line of credit extended by a company and normally have terms that require payments due within a relatively short period. It typically ranges from a few days to a fiscal or calendar year.



Companies record accounts receivable as assets on their balance sheets because there is a legal obligation for the customer to pay the debt. They are considered a liquid asset, because they can be used as collateral to secure a loan to help meet short-term obligations. Receivables are part of a company’s working capital.



Furthermore, accounts receivable are current assets, meaning that the account balance is due from the debtor in one year or less. If a company has receivables, this means that it has made a sale on credit but has yet to collect the money from the purchaser. Essentially, the company has accepted a short-term IOU from its client.






Many businesses use accounts receivable aging schedules to keep tabs on the status and well-being of AR.


   Accounts Receivable vs. Accounts Payable  

When a company owes debts to its suppliers or other parties, these are accounts payable. Accounts payable are the opposite of accounts receivable. To illustrate, imagine Company A cleans Company B’s carpets and sends a bill for the services. Company B owes them money, so it records the invoice in its accounts payable column. Company A is waiting to receive the money, so it records the bill in its accounts receivable column.


   Benefits of Accounts Receivable  

Accounts receivable are an important aspect of a business’s fundamental analysis. Accounts receivable are a current asset, so it measures a company’s liquidity or ability to cover short-term obligations without additional cash flows. 



Fundamental analysts often evaluate accounts receivable in the context of turnover, also known as accounts receivable turnover ratio, which measures the number of times a company has collected on its accounts receivable balance during an accounting period. Further analysis would include assessing days sales outstanding (DSO), the average number of days that it takes to collect payment after a sale has been made.


   Example of Accounts Receivable  

An example of accounts receivable includes an electric company that bills its clients after the clients received the electricity. The electric company records an account receivable for unpaid invoices as it waits for its customers to pay their bills. 



Most companies operate by allowing a portion of their sales to be on credit. Sometimes, businesses offer this credit to frequent or special customers that receive periodic invoices. The practice allows customers to avoid the hassle of physically making payments as each transaction occurs. In other cases, businesses routinely offer all of their clients the ability to pay after receiving the service.




What are examples of receivables?
A receivable is created any time money is owed to a firm for services rendered or products provided that have not yet been paid. This can be from a sale to a customer on store credit, or a subscription or installment payment that is due after goods or services have been received.




Where do I find a company’s accounts receivable?
Accounts receivable are found on a firm’s balance sheet. Because they represent funds owed to the company, they are booked as an asset. Investors need to dig into the numbers shown under accounts receivable to determine if the company follows sound practices.




What happens if customers never pay what’s due?
When it becomes clear that an account receivable won’t get paid by a customer, it has to be written off as a bad debt expense or one-time charge. Companies might also sell this outstanding debt to a third party—known as accounts receivable discounted or as AR factoring.




How are accounts receivable different from accounts payable?
Accounts receivable represent funds owed to the firm for services rendered, and they are booked as an asset. Accounts payable, on the other hand, represent funds that the firm owes to others—for example, payments due to suppliers or creditors. Payables are booked as liabilities.
What Is the Accounts Receivables Turnover Ratio?  

The accounts receivables turnover ratio measures the number of times a company collects its average accounts receivable balance. It is a quantification of a company's effectiveness in collecting outstanding balances from clients and managing its line of credit process.



An efficient company has a higher accounts receivable turnover ratio while an inefficient company has a lower ratio. This metric is commonly used to compare companies within the same industry to gauge whether they are on par with their competitors.





Key Takeaways

The accounts receivable turnover ratio is an accounting measure used to quantify how efficiently a company is in collecting receivables from its clients.The ratio measures the number of times that receivables are converted to cash during a certain time period.A high ratio may indicate that corporate collection practices are efficient with quality customers who pay their debts quickly.A low ratio could be the result of inefficient collection processes, inadequate credit policies, or customers who are not financially viable or creditworthy.Investors should be mindful that some companies use total sales rather than net sales to calculate their ratios, which may inflate the results.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Understanding Receivables Turnover Ratios  

Accounts receivable are effectively interest-free loans that are short-term in nature and are extended by companies to their customers. If a company generates a sale to a client, it could extend terms of 30 or 60 days, meaning the client has 30 to 60 days to pay for the product.



The receivables turnover ratio measures the efficiency with which a company is able to collect on its receivables or the credit it extends to customers. The ratio also measures how many times a company's receivables are converted to cash in a certain period of time. The receivables turnover ratio is calculated on an annual, quarterly, or monthly basis.






Accounts receivables appear under the current assets section of a company's balance sheet.


   Formula and Calculation of the Receivables Turnover Ratio  

The accounts receivable turnover ratio is the relationship between net credit sales and average accounts receivable:















Accounts Receivable Turnover.
WallStreetMojo


  Net Credit Sales  

The numerator of the accounts receivable turnover ratio is net credit sales, the amount of revenue earned by a company paid via credit. This figure include cash sales as cash sales do not incur accounts receivable activity. Net credit sales also incorporates sales discounts or returns from customers and is calculated as gross credit sales less these residual reductions.



It is important that the calculation uses a consistent timeframe. Therefore, the net credit sales should only incorporate a specific period (i.e. net credit sales for the second quarter only). Should returns happen in a future period, this figure should be included in the calculation as it relates to the activity being analyzed.


  Average Accounts Receivable  

The denominator of the accounts receivable turnover ratio is the average accounts receivable balance. This is usually calculated as the average between a company's starting accounts receivable balance and ending accounts receivable balance.



Companies with more complex accounting information systems may be able to easily extract its average accounts receivable balance at the end of each day. The company may then take the average of these balances; however, it must be mindful of how day-to-day entries may change the average. Similar to calculating net credit sales, the average accounts receivable balance should only cover a very specific time period.


   High vs. Low Receivables Turnover Ratio  
  High Ratios  

A high receivables turnover ratio can indicate that a company’s collection of accounts receivable is efficient and that it has a high proportion of quality customers who pay their debts quickly. A high receivables turnover ratio might also indicate that a company operates on a cash basis.



A high ratio can also suggest that a company is conservative when it comes to extending credit to its customers. Conservative credit policies can be beneficial since they may help companies avoid extending credit to customers who may not be able to pay on time.



On the other hand, having too conservative a credit policy may drive away potential customers. These customers may then do business with competitors who can offer and extend them the credit they need. If a company loses clients or suffers slow growth, it may be better off loosening its credit policy to improve sales, even though it might lead to a lower accounts receivable turnover ratio.


  Low Ratios  

A low receivables turnover ratio isn't a good thing. That's because it may be due to an inadequate collection process, bad credit policies, or customers that are not financially viable or creditworthy. A low turnover ratio typically implies that the company should reassess its credit policies to ensure the timely collection of its receivables. However, if a company with a low ratio improves its collection process, it might lead to an influx of cash from collecting on old credit or receivables.



In some cases, though, low ratios aren't always bad. For example, if the company's distribution division is operating poorly, it might be failing to deliver the correct goods to customers in a timely manner. As a result, customers might delay paying their receivables, which would decrease the company’s receivables turnover ratio.






The asset turnover ratio is another important metric. It measures the value of a company's sales or revenues relative to the value of its assets and indicates how efficiently a company uses its assets to generate revenue. A higher ratio means the company is more efficient. A low asset turnover ratio indicates that the company is using its assets inefficiently to generate sales.


   Importance of Receivables Turnover Ratio  

The accounts receivable turnover ratio communicates a variety of useful information to a company. The ratio tells a company:



How well a company is collecting credit sales. As a company processes receivable balances faster, it gets its hand on capital faster.
What collateral opportunities a company may have. Some lenders may use accounts receivable as collateral; with strong historical accounts receivable activity, a company may have greater opportunities to borrow funds.
When it might be able to make large capital investments. A company can project what cash it will have on hand in the future when better understanding how quickly it will convert receivable balances to cash.
How sufficiently a company is evaluating the credit of clients. If a company's accounts receivable turnover ratio is low, this may be an indicator that a company is not reviewing the creditworthiness of its clients enough. Slower turnover of receivables may eventually lead to clients becoming insolvent and unable to pay.
How it is performing over time. When analyzing financial ratios of a single company over time, that company can better understand the trajectory of its accounts receivable turnover.
How it is performing compared to its competitors. When analyzing financial ratios of several different but similar companies, a company can better understand whether it is an industry-leader or whether it is falling behind.


   Usefulness of the Accounts Receivables Turnover Ratio  

Like other financial ratios, the accounts receivable turnover ratio is most useful when compared across time periods or different companies. For example, a company may compare the receivables turnover ratios of companies that operate within the same industry. In this example, a company can better understand whether the processing of its credit sales are in line with competitors or whether they are lagging behind its competition.



When making comparisons, it's ideal to look at businesses that have similar business models. Once again, the results can be skewed if there are glaring differences between the companies being compared. That's because companies of different sizes often have very different capital structures, which can greatly influence turnover calculations, and the same is often true of companies in different industries.



Another example is to compare a single company's accounts receivable turnover ratio over time. A company may track its accounts receivable turnover ratio every 30 days or at the end of each quarter. In this manner, a company can better understand how its collection plan is faring and whether it is improving in its collections.


   Limitations of the Receivables Turnover Ratio  

The receivables turnover ratio is just like any other metric that tries to gauge the efficiency of a business in that it comes with certain limitations that are important for any investor to consider.



Some companies use total sales instead of net sales when calculating their turnover ratio. This inaccuracy skews results as it makes a company's calculation look higher. When evaluating an externally-calculated ratio, ensure you understand how the ratio was calculated.



Another limitation is that accounts receivable varies dramatically throughout the year. This is often the case with seasonal companies. These entities likely have periods with high receivables along with a low turnover ratio and periods when the receivables are fewer and can be more easily managed and collected.



As such, the beginning and ending values selected when calculating the average accounts receivable should be carefully chosen to accurately reflect the company's performance. Investors could take an average of accounts receivable from each month during a 12-month period to help smooth out any seasonal gaps.


   Example of Receivables Turnover Ratio  

Let's say Company A had the following financial results for the year:



Net credit sales of $800,000.$64,000 in accounts receivables on Jan. 1 or the beginning of the year.$72,000 in accounts receivables on Dec. 31 or at the end of the year.



We can calculate the receivables turnover ratio in the following way:


















ACR


=




$


64


,


000


+


$


72


,


000



2



=


$


68


,


000
















ARTR


=




$


800


,


000




$


68


,


000




=


11.76
















where:
















ACR = Average accounts receivable
















ARTR = Accounts receivable turnover ratio







\begin{aligned} &\text{ACR}=\frac{\$64,000+\$72,000}{2}=\$68,000\\ &\text{ARTR}=\frac{\$800,000}{\$68,000}=11.76\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{ACR = Average accounts receivable}\\ &\text{ARTR = Accounts receivable turnover ratio}\\ \end{aligned}


​ACR=2$64,000+$72,000​=$68,000ARTR=$68,000$800,000​=11.76where:ACR = Average accounts receivableARTR = Accounts receivable turnover ratio​



We can interpret the ratio to mean that Company A collected its receivables 11.76 times on average that year. In other words, the company converted its receivables to cash 11.76 times that year. A company could compare several years to ascertain whether 11.76 is an improvement or an indication of a slower collection process.



A company could also determine the average duration of accounts receivable or the number of days it takes to collect them during the year. In our example above, we would divide 365 by 11.76 to arrive at the average duration. The average accounts receivable turnover in days would be 365 / 11.76, which is 31.04 days.



For Company A, customers on average take 31 days to pay their receivables. If the company had a 30-day payment policy for its customers, the average accounts receivable turnover shows that, on average, customers are paying one day late.



A company could improve its turnover ratio by making changes to its collection process. A company could also offer its customers discounts for paying early. Companies need to know their receivables turnover since it is directly tied to how much cash they have available to pay their short-term liabilities.




What Is a Good Accounts Receivable Turnover Ratio?
Accounts receivable turnover ratio calculations will widely vary from industry to industry. In addition, larger companies may be more wiling to offer longer credit periods as it is less reliant on credit sales. In general, a higher accounts receivable turnover ratio is favorable, and companies should strive for at least a ratio of at least 1.0 to ensure it collects the full amount of average accounts receivable at least one time during a period.




Should the Accounts Receivable Turnover Ratio Be High or Low?
High accounts receivable turnover ratios are more favorable than low ratios because this signifies a company is converting accounts receivables to cash faster. This allows for a company to have more cash quicker to strategically deploy for the use of its operations or growth.




What Affects the Accounts Receivable Turnover Ratio?
The accounts receivable turnover ratio is comprised of net credit sales and accounts receivable. A company can improve its ratio calculation by being more conscious of who it offers credit sales to in addition to deploying internal resources towards the collection of outstanding debts.




Why Is the Accounts Receivable Turnover Ratio Important?
The accounts receivable turnover ratio tells a company how efficiently its collection process is. This is important because it directly correlates to how much cash a company may have on hand in addition to how much cash it may expect to receive in the short-term. By failing to monitor or manage its collection process, a company may fail to receive payments or be inefficiently overseeing its cash management process.


   The Bottom Line  

The accounts receivable turnover ratio measures the number of times a company's accounts receivable balance is collected in a given period. A high ratio means a company is doing better job at converting credit sales to cash. However, it is important to understand that factors influencing the ratio such as inconsistent accounts receivable balances may accidently impact the calculation of the ratio.
What Is a Receivership?  

A receivership is a court-appointed tool that can assist creditors in recovering funds in default and can help troubled companies avoid bankruptcy. Having a receivership in place makes it easier for a lender to obtain the funds that are owed to them if a borrower defaults on a loan.



A receivership may also occur as a step in a company's restructuring process that is initiated to return a company to profitability.



Moreover, a receivership could arise as a result of a shareholder dispute over completing a project, liquidating assets, or selling a business.





Key Takeaways

A receivership is a court-appointed tool that can help creditors to recover funds they're owed.It can help troubled companies to avoid bankruptcy.The goal of a receivership is to return companies to profitability.In a receivership, the court appoints an independent "receiver" (or trustee) to manage all aspects of a troubled company's business.For the duration of a receivership, the company's principals remain in place (but they have little authority over the company).












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   How Receiverships Work  

In general, a receivership is a process that is put in place to protect a company. A period of receivership may be thought of as a protective umbrella for a troubled company. During this time, a receiver, or trustee, steps in to manage the entire company, its assets, and all financial and operating decisions.



While the receivership is operative, the company's principals remain in place as material contributors, but their authority is limited.



Traditionally, a receivership was intended to help creditors recover amounts outstanding under a secured loan in the event that a borrower defaulted on its loan payments. Receiverships are one of the most powerful solutions available to aid creditors.



Receiverships are also used by companies that are in financial distress. They can be used as part of a company's restructuring process. For example, a receivership can help when a company makes significant changes to its financial or operational structure, typically while under financial duress. Or, a receivership can be used when a company is headed toward bankruptcy.



A receivership itself is not a legal process, but it is usually invoked during legal proceedings. Either the secured creditor (lender) or a court of law appoints a receiver to act as trustee of a business. Privately-appointed receivers will generally act only on behalf of the secured creditor that appointed them. Court-appointed receivers act on behalf of all creditors.



The receiver must be an independent party, with no prior business relationship to either the borrower or lender. They can never act for the benefit of one party and to the detriment of another.






Receivership and bankruptcy are not the same, but neither are they mutually exclusive. They can occur at the same time. Or, a receivership can occur without a company declaring bankruptcy.


   Responsibilities of a Receiver  

In the case of a restructuring, the appointed receiver generally has ultimate decision-making power over the company's assets and management decisions. This includes the authority to stop paying dividends or applicable interest payments. The receiver also ensures that all company operations comply with government standards and regulations, while still maximizing profits.



The receiver customarily works with the company to help avoid bankruptcy. A receiver may choose to shed select assets for the purpose of paying some creditors and to bring the company into a period of recovery.



Should these efforts fail to achieve the purpose of the receivership—or be seen as insufficient from the start—the court may order that a company's assets be liquidated. In that case, a liquidator would oversee the sale of assets and collect the funds to repay creditors. When the assets are all sold, the company would cease to exist.


   Bankruptcy vs. Receivership: How Are They Different?  

Confusion over the terms bankruptcy and receivership is quite common. The fundamental differences are fairly straightforward.


  Bankruptcy  

Bankruptcy is an action that's usually taken to protect a debtor from collection actions by creditors. Bankruptcy courts and rules are primarily aimed at shielding the borrower, not the lender. A company may file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy when it wants time to solve its financial problems while maintaining business operations.



On the other hand, when a company files for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, it's generally for the purpose of liquidating and closing a business. There are other forms of bankruptcies, but these two are the most common.


  Receivership  

Unlike bankruptcy, a receivership is not a legal action, but rather an adjunct solution. For example, in the case of a secured lender, a receivership is designed to protect the borrower's assets that represent the loan during an interim period until the creditor's claim is resolved by a court.



The secured lender asks the court to protect its security (collateral)—land, buildings, business income, cash, or the like. An independent party is put in charge of the assets and remains in possession and control of them until discharged by the court.




What Are Some Benefits of Receivership?
There can be benefits for creditors as well as a company. Creditors can ensure that the assets that secure the loans they made to a company remain protected and of value until their claims are handled successfully. A business can get a neutral, objective professional to oversee problems that may concern management, operations, financials, and more. The receiver can help position the company to thrive once the term of receivership ends.




Who Requests a Receivership?
A secured creditor can request a receivership as a way to obtain funds or protect a borrower's assets until a court resolves the creditor's claim against the borrower.




How Long Does a Receivership Last?
Perhaps anywhere from a few months to several years. It depends on the reason it is implemented in the first place. A receivership put into place to help resolve the claim of one creditor could last less time than one used to remedy a company's ills so that the company can avoid bankruptcy.


   The Bottom Line  

Receivership is a court-appointed remedy that may be used to assist creditors in recovering funds due them when a company is unable to make payments on a loan. It can keep a company out of bankruptcy as it restructures due to financial hardship.



Receivership is not bankruptcy. It is considered a temporary phase of needed oversight by a trustee until a company resolves claims against it by lenders and/or regains its financial footing.
What Is Recency, Frequency, Monetary Value (RFM)?  

Recency, frequency, monetary value (RFM) is a model used in marketing analysis that segments a company’s consumer base by their purchasing patterns or habits. In particular, it evaluates customers’ recency (how long ago they made a purchase), frequency (how often they make purchases), and monetary value (how much money they spend).



RFM is then used to identify a company’s or an organization’s best customers by measuring and analyzing spending habits to improve low-scoring customers and maintain high-scoring ones.





Key Takeaways

Recency, frequency, monetary value (RFM) is a marketing analysis tool used to identify a firm’s best clients based on the nature of their spending habits.An RFM analysis evaluates clients and customers by scoring them in three categories: how recently they’ve made a purchase, how often they buy, and the size of their purchases.The RFM model assigns a score of 1 to 5 (from worst to best) for customers in each of the three categories.RFM analysis helps firms reasonably predict which customers are likely to purchase their products again, how much revenue comes from new (vs. repeat) clients, and how to turn occasional buyers into habitual ones.


   Understanding Recency, Frequency, Monetary Value  

The RFM model is based on three quantitative factors:



Recency: How recently a customer has made a purchaseFrequency: How often a customer makes a purchaseMonetary value: How much money a customer spends on purchases



RFM analysis numerically ranks a customer in each of these three categories, generally on a scale of 1 to 5 (the higher the number, the better the result). The “best” customer would receive a top score in every category.



These three RFM factors can be used to reasonably predict how likely (or unlikely) it is that a customer will do business again with a firm or, in the case of a charitable organization, make another donation.



The concept of recency, frequency, monetary value (RFM) is thought to date from an article by Jan Roelf Bult and Tom Wansbeek, titled “Optimal Selection for Direct Mail,” published in a 1995 issue of Marketing Science.






RFM analysis often supports the marketing adage that “80% of business comes from 20% of the customers.”


  Recency  

The more recently a customer has made a purchase with a company, the more likely they will continue to keep the business and brand in mind for subsequent purchases. Compared with customers who have not bought from the business in months or even longer periods, the likelihood of engaging in future transactions with recent customers is arguably higher.



Such information can be used to get recent customers to revisit the business and spend more. In an effort not to overlook lapsed customers, marketing efforts might be made to remind them that it’s been a while since their last transaction, while offering them an incentive to resume buying.


  Frequency  

The frequency of a customer’s transactions may be affected by factors such as the type of product, the price point for the purchase, and the need for replenishment or replacement. If the purchase cycle can be predicted—for example, when a customer needs to buy more groceries—marketing efforts may be directed toward reminding them to visit the business when staple items run low.


  Monetary Value  

Monetary value stems from how much the customer spends. A natural inclination is to put more emphasis on encouraging customers who spend the most money to continue to do so. While this can produce a better return on investment (ROI) in marketing and customer service, it also runs the risk of alienating customers who have been consistent but may not spend as much with each transaction.






Nonprofit organizations, in particular, have relied on RFM analysis to target donors, as people who have been the source of contributions in the past are likely to make additional gifts.


   Significance of Recency, Frequency, Monetary Value  

RFM analysis allows a comparison between potential contributors and clients. It gives organizations a sense of how much revenue comes from repeat customers (vs. new customers), and which levers they can pull to try to make customers happier so they become repeat purchasers.



Despite the useful information that is acquired through RFM analysis, firms must take into consideration that even the best customers will not want to be over-solicited, and the lower-ranking customers may be cultivated with additional marketing efforts. It works as a snapshot of the clientele and as a tool to prioritize nurturing, but it should not be taken as a license to simply do more of the same old, same old sales techniques.




Why is the recency, frequency, monetary value (RFM) model useful?
The recency, frequency, monetary value (RFM) model is based on those three quantitative factors. Each customer is ranked in each of these categories, generally on a scale of 1 to 5 (the higher the number, the better the result). The higher the customer ranking, the more likely it is that they will do business again with a firm. Essentially, the RFM model corroborates the marketing adage that “80% of business comes from 20% of the customers.”




What is recency in the RFM model?
The recency factor is based on the notion that the more recently a customer has made a purchase with a company, the more likely they will continue to keep the business and brand in mind for subsequent purchases. This information can be used to remind recent customers to revisit the business soon to continue meeting their purchase needs.




What is frequency in the RFM model?
The frequency of a customer’s transactions may be affected by factors such as the type of product, the price point for the purchase, and the need for replenishment or replacement. Predicting this can assist marketing efforts directed at reminding the customer to visit the business again.




What is monetary value in the RFM model?
Monetary value stems from how much the customer spends. A natural inclination is to put more emphasis on encouraging customers who spend the most money to continue doing so. While this can produce a better return on investment (ROI) in marketing and customer service, it also runs the risk of alienating customers who have been consistent but have not spent as much with each transaction.


   The Bottom Line  

The recency, frequency, monetary value (RFM) model assigns a firm’s customer base a particular trait, which can be used to improve marketing analysis. For each attribute (recency, frequency, and monetary value), customers are given a score from 1 (lowest) to 5 (best) based on their observed purchasing behavior. The ideal customer would therefore have a score of 5, 5, 5 for these three factors. Other customers with lower scores can be identified for improvement.
What Is a Recession?  










Investopedia / Laura Porter



A recession is a significant, widespread, and prolonged downturn in economic activity. A common rule of thumb is that two consecutive quarters of negative gross domestic product (GDP) growth mean recession, although more complex formulas are also used.



Economists at the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) measure recessions by looking at nonfarm payrolls, industrial production, and retail sales, among other indicators, going far beyond the simpler (although not as accurate) two quarters of negative GDP measure.



However, the NBER also says there is “no fixed rule about what measures contribute information to the process or how they are weighted in our decisions.”





Key Takeaways

A recession is a significant, pervasive, and persistent decline in economic activity.Economists measure a recession's length from the prior expansion's peak to the downturn's trough.Recessions may last as little as a few months, but the economy may not recover to its former peak for years.An inverted yield curve has predicted the last 10 recessions, although some predicted recessions never materialized.Unemployment often remains high well into an economic recovery, so the early stages of a rebound can feel like a continuing recession for many.Nations use fiscal and monetary policies to limit the risks of a recession.



A downturn must be deep, pervasive, and lasting to qualify as a recession by the NBER's definition, but these calls come after the fact: It is not a clear formula to identify a recession as soon as one begins.


   Understanding Recessions  

Since the Industrial Revolution, most economies have grown steadily and economic contractions are an exception, although recessions are still common. Between 1960 and 2007, there were 122 recessions that affected 21 advanced economies roughly 10% of the time, according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF).



In recent years, recessions have become less frequent and don't last as long.



The declines in economic output and employment that recessions cause can become self-perpetuating. For example, declining consumer demand can prompt companies to lay off staff, which affects consumer spending power, and can further weaken consumer demand.



Similarly, the bear markets that often accompany recessions can reverse the wealth effect, suddenly making people less wealthy and further trimming consumption.



Since the Great Depression, governments around the world have adopted fiscal and monetary policies to prevent a run-of-the-mill recession from becoming far worse. Some of these stabilizing factors are automatic, such as unemployment insurance that puts money into the pockets of employees who lost their jobs. Other measures require specific actions, such as cutting interest rates to stimulate investment.







Recessions are usually clearly identified only after they are over. Investors, economists, and employees may also have very different experiences in terms of when a recession is at its worst.



Equities markets often decline before an economic downturn, so investors may assume a recession has begun as investment losses accumulate and corporate earnings decline, even if other measures of recession remain healthy, such as consumer spending and unemployment.



Conversely, since unemployment often remains high long after the economy hits bottom, workers may perceive a recession as continuing for months or even years after economic activity recovers.


   What Predicts a Recession?  

While there is no single, sure-fire predictor of recession, an inverted yield curve has come before each of the 10 U.S. recessions since 1955, although not every period of inverted yield curve was followed by recession.



When the yield curve is normal, short term yields are lower than long term yields. This is because longer-term debt has more duration risk. For example, a 10-year bond usually yields more than a 2-year bond as the investor is taking a risk that future inflation or higher interest rates could lower the bond's value before it can be redeemed. So, in this case the yield goes up over time, creating an upward yield curve.



The yield curve inverts if yields on longer-dated bonds go down while yields on shorter term bonds go up. The rise of near term interest rates can tip the economy into a recession. The reason why the yield on long term bonds drops below that on short term bonds is because traders anticipate near term economic weakness leading to eventual interest rate cuts.



Investors also look at a variety of leading indicators to predict recession. These include the ISM Purchasing Managers Index, the Conference Board Leading Economic Index, and the OECD Composite Leading Indicator.


   What Causes Recessions?  

Numerous economic theories attempt to explain why and how an economy goes into recession. These theories can be broadly categorized as economic, financial, psychological, or a combination of these factors.



Some economists focus on economic changes, including structural shifts in industries, as most important. For example, a sharp, sustained surge in oil prices can raise costs across the economy, leading to recession.



Some theories say financial factors cause recessions. These theories focus on credit growth and the accumulation of financial risks during good economic times, the contraction of credit and money supply when recession starts, or both. Monetarism, which says recessions are caused by insufficient growth in money supply, is a good example of this type of theory.







Other theories focus on psychological factors, such as over-exuberance during economic booms and deep pessimism during downturns to explain why recessions occur and persist. Keynesian economics focuses on the psychological and economic factors that can reinforce and prolong recessions. The concept of a Minsky Moment, named for economist Hyman Minsky, combines the two to explain how bull-market euphoria can encourage unsustainable speculation.


   Recessions and Depressions  

According to the NBER, the U.S. has experienced 34 recessions since 1854, but only five since 1980. The downturn following the 2008 global financial crisis and the double-dip slumps of the early 1980s were the worst since the Great Depression and the 1937-38 recession.



Routine recessions can cause the GDP to decline 2%, while severe ones might set an economy back 5%, according to the IMF. A depression is a particularly deep and long-lasting recession, though there is no commonly accepted formula to define one.



During the Great Depression, U.S. economic output fell 33%, stocks plunged 80%, and unemployment hit 25%. During the 1937-38 recession, real GDP fell 10% while unemployment jumped to 20%.


  Recent Recessions  

The 2020 COVID-19 pandemic and the public health restrictions imposed to stop it are an example of an economic shock that can cause recession. The depth and widespread nature of the economic downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 led the NBER to designate it a recession despite its relatively brief two-month length.



In 2022, many economic analysts debated whether the U.S. economy was in recession or not, given that some economic indicators pointed to recession, but others did not. That debate has continued into 2023.



Analysts with investment advisory firm Raymond James argued in an October 2022 report that the U.S. economy was not in recession. The investment advisor argues that the economy met the technical definition of recession after two consecutive quarters of negative growth, but numerous other positive economic indicators show the economy is not in recession.



First, it cites the fact that employment continued to increase even though GDP contracted. The report further points out that although real personal disposable income also declined in 2022, much of the decline was a result of the end of the COVID-19 relief stimulus, and that personal income excluding these payments continued to rise.



Data from the The Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis as of late October 2022 similarly show that key NBER indicators do not point to the U.S. economy being in recession.



On Feb. 6, 2023, Janet Yellen, U.S. Treasury Secretary, indicated she was not worried about a recession. "You don't have a recession when you have 500,000 jobs and the lowest unemployment rate in more than 50 years," she said to Good Morning America.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


What Happens in a Recession?
Economic output, employment, and consumer spending drop in a recession. Interest rates are also likely to decline as the central bank (such as the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank) cuts rates to support the economy. The government's budget deficit widens as tax revenues decline, while spending on unemployment insurance and other social programs rises.




When Was the Last Recession?
The last U.S. recession was in 2020, at the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to NBER, the two-month downturn ended in April 2020, qualifying as a recession as it was deep and pervasive despite its record short length.




How Long Do Recessions Last?
The average U.S. recession since 1857 lasted 17 months, although the six recessions since 1980 averaged less than 10 months.


   The Bottom Line  

A recession is a significant, widespread, and prolonged downturn in economic activity. A common rule of thumb is that two consecutive quarters of negative gross domestic product (GDP) growth mean recession, but many use more complex measures to decide if the economy is in recession.



Unemployment is one key feature of recessions. As demand for goods and services falls, companies need fewer workers and may lay off staff to cut costs. Laid off staff have to cut their own spending, which in turn hurts demand, which can lead to more layoffs.



Since the Great Depression, governments around the world have adopted fiscal and monetary policies to prevent a run-of-the-mill recession from becoming worse. Some are automatic, such as unemployment insurance to put money into the pockets of employees who lost their jobs. Other measures require specific action, such as cutting interest rates to stimulate investment.



In recent years, recessions have become less frequent and don't last as long.



While there is no single, sure-fire predictor of recession, an inverted yield curve has come before each of the 10 U.S. recessions since 1955, although not every period of the yield curve inverting was followed by recession.
What Is a Recessionary Gap?  

A recessionary gap, or contractionary gap, is a macroeconomic term used when a country's real gross domestic product (GDP) is lower than its GDP at full employment.





Key Takeaways

A recessionary gap, or contractionary gap, occurs when a country's real GDP is lower than its GDP at full employment.Recessionary gaps close when real wages return to equilibrium, and the quantity of labor demanded equals the quantity supplied.Policymakers may choose to implement a stabilization policy to close the recessionary gap and increase real GDP.


   Understanding a Recessionary Gap  

Essentially, a recessionary gap refers to the difference between actual and potential production in an economy, with the actual being lower than the potential, which puts downward pressure on prices in the long run. Often, these gaps are evident during an economic downturn and are associated with higher unemployment numbers.



Significant reductions in economic activity for several months will indicate a recession. During periods of recession, companies will often pull back on spending, creating a gap from the contraction in the business cycle.



Economists define a recessionary gap as a lower, real-income level, as measured by real GDP, than the real-income level at a point of full employment. Real GDP values all goods and services for a specific time-frame, adjusted for inflation. In the period leading up to a recession, there is often a significant reduction in consumer expenditure or investment due to a decrease in the take-home pay of workers.


   Recessionary Gaps and Exchange Rates  

When production levels fluctuate, prices change to compensate. This price change is considered an early indicator that an economy is moving into a recession and may lead to less favorable exchange rates for foreign currencies.



An exchange rate is merely one country's currency in comparison with that of another country. At parity, the two currencies exchange one for one.



Countries might adopt monetary policies to lower rates in an effort to encourage foreign investment or raise rates to encourage internal consumption of homemade products. The change in exchange rates affects the financial returns on exported goods. Lower foreign exchange rates mean less income for exporting countries and further drives a recessionary trend.


   Offsetting Recessionary Gaps  

Although it represents a downward economic trend, a recessionary gap can remain stable, suggesting short-term economic equilibrium below the ideal, which can be as damaging to an economy as an unstable period. This instability is because prolonged downward periods of lower GDP production inhibit growth and contribute to sustained higher unemployment levels.



Policymakers may choose to implement an expansionary policy—a stabilization policy—to close the gap and increase real GDP. Monetary authorities might increase the amount of money in circulation in the economy by lowering interest rates and boosting government spending.


   The Recessionary Gap and Unemployment  

A more important outcome of a recessionary gap is increased unemployment. During an economic downturn, the demand for goods and services lowers as unemployment rises. If prices and wages remain unchanged, this can further elevate unemployment levels.



In a cycle which feeds upon itself, higher unemployment levels reduce overall consumer demand, which reduces production, and lowers the realized GDP. As the amount of output continues to fall, fewer employees are required to meet production demand, resulting in additional job losses and further reducing the need for goods and services.



As a company's profits stagnate or decline, it cannot offer higher wages. Some industries may experience pay cuts due to internal business practices, or the effect of economic circumstances. For example, during a recession, people spend less on going out to eat, which means that restaurant workers receive less income in the form of tips.


   Recessionary Gap Example  

In December 2018, the U.S. labor market as a whole was at full employment with an unemployment rate of 3.7% and there was no recessionary gap. However, not all parts of the country were at full employment, and some individual states were experiencing a recessionary gap.



For instance, New York was at full employment, and most large cities were economically secure. However, the picture was very different in rural areas where jobs were more difficult to find. In West Virginia, for example, the decimated coal mining industry brought the unemployment rate to 5.3% with little economic productivity. Additionally, West Virginia was one of four states with a poverty rate above 18%.
What Is Recharacterization?  

Recharacterization refers to two separate individual retirement account (IRA) strategies:



A contribution to an IRA can be recharacterized as a contribution to a different IRA. This strategy is currently permissible, and you can recharacterize your Roth IRA contribution into a traditional IRA contribution and vice versa, though specific deadlines apply.
A Roth IRA conversion could be recharacterized (or “undone”) into a traditional IRA. However, this strategy is no longer allowed under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Today, if you do a Roth IRA conversion, it’s a permanent, irrevocable move.





Key Takeaways

An individual retirement account (IRA) contribution can be recharacterized as a contribution to a different IRA, though specific deadlines apply.Before the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, you could recharacterize—or “undo”—a Roth IRA conversion back to a traditional IRA.Roth IRA conversions are now irrevocable. Once you convert to a Roth, there’s no turning back.


   How Recharacterization Works  

A recharacterization lets you treat a regular contribution that you made to a Roth IRA or a traditional IRA as one that you made to another type of IRA. For example, if you contributed $6,000 to your Roth IRA (the “first” IRA), you could recharacterize it as a $6,000 contribution made to your traditional IRA (the “second” IRA). Note that $6,000 is the contribution limit to an IRA for 2022 (increasing to $6,500 for 2023).






You can’t recharacterize employer contributions under a simplified employee pension (SEP) IRA or Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees (SIMPLE) IRA plan as contributions to another IRA.



Recharacterizing a contribution from one type of IRA to another gives you the opportunity to change your mind or correct a mistake—say, you contributed to a Roth even though your income was too high.



You have until the due date for your federal income tax return (including any extensions) for the year when you made the first contribution to recharacterize your contribution. As long as you recharacterize your contribution by this deadline, you can treat the contribution as made to the second IRA for that year. This means that you can effectively ignore the contribution you made to the first IRA.






The year when you made the first contribution is the tax year to which that contribution relates—not necessarily the year when you actually made the contribution. Remember that you generally have until April 15 to make a prior-year contribution.



To recharacterize a contribution, ask your IRA custodian (the financial institution holding your IRA) to transfer the amount—including the contribution and related earnings—to a different type of IRA. The recharacterization can occur either within the same institution (if you use one custodian for both IRAs) or via a trustee-to-trustee transfer if different providers maintain the IRAs.




How Do You Recharacterize an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) Contribution?
To recharacterize an individual retirement account (IRA) contribution, you’ll need to use an existing IRA or open a new one to accept the withdrawn funds. Next, notify your financial institution(s) that you want to recharacterize a contribution. If the same IRA provider maintains both IRAs, you can just notify that one institution. Otherwise, inform the custodian holding the IRA contribution in question and the institution that will accept the recharacterized contribution.You can generally do the recharacterization online or with your IRA custodian’s standard form. You must report the recharacterization on your tax return for the year when you made the original contribution using Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 8606.




How Do You Allocate Earnings When Recharacterizing IRA Contributions?
If you opt to recharacterize an IRA contribution, you have to transfer the contribution plus any earnings related to those funds—or less any losses. If the IRA is composed entirely of the contribution and earnings that you want to recharacterize—for instance, it’s a new IRA to which you’ve made only one contribution—then you can transfer the entire IRA. This is called a full recharacterization.Conversely, if you want to transfer part of your IRA, it’s considered a partial recharacterization. In this case, you have to determine how much of the IRA’s earnings are attributable to the contribution that you want to recharacterize. You can skip the math by asking your IRA provider to calculate this amount for you.




How Much Can I Contribute to an IRA?
For 2022, you can contribute up to $6,000 to your Roth and traditional IRAs. If you’re age 50 or older, you can make an additional $1,000 catch-up contribution, bringing the annual contribution limit to $7,000. For 2023, the limit increases to $6,500, or $7,500 if you’re age 50 or older.Note that the limit is the combined total for all of your IRAs. So, for example, if you contribute $4,000 to a traditional IRA, the most that you could contribute to a Roth during the same tax year (2022 in this example) would be $2,000.Roth IRAs have an extra restriction: Whether you're allowed to contribute the full amount—or anything at all—depends on your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) and filing status. For example, if you’re married and file jointly, you can’t contribute to a Roth IRA if your MAGI is $214,000 or more for the 2022 tax year ($228,000 or more for 2023).
What Is Reconciliation?  

Reconciliation is an accounting procedure that compares two sets of records to check that the figures are correct and in agreement. Reconciliation also confirms that accounts in a general ledger are consistent and complete. Reconciliation can be used for personal as well as business purposes.



Account reconciliation is particularly useful for explaining any differences between two financial records or account balances. Some differences may be acceptable because of the timing of payments and deposits. Unexplained or mysterious discrepancies, however, may warn of fraud or cooking the books. Businesses and individuals may reconcile their records daily, monthly, quarterly, or annually.





Key Takeaways

Companies use reconciliation to prevent balance sheet errors on their financial accounts, check for fraud, and make sure that transactions were appropriately booked to the general ledger.In double-entry accounting, each transaction is posted as both a debit and a credit.Individuals can also use reconciliation to check the accuracy of their bank and credit card account statements.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   How Reconciliation Works  

There is no standard way to perform an account reconciliation. However, generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require double-entry bookkeeping—where a transaction is entered into the general ledger in two places—making it the most prevalent tool for reconciliation among businesses.



In double-entry bookkeeping, every financial transaction is posted in two accounts: a credit account and a debit account. So, when a business makes a sale, it debits either cash or accounts receivable (on the balance sheet) and credits sales revenue (on the income statement). Reconciliation can be used to catch errors on either side of the entry. In the reconciliation, debits and credits should balance out to zero.



Similarly, when a business receives an invoice, it credits the amount of the invoice to accounts payable (on the balance sheet) and debits an expense (on the income statement) for the same amount. When the company pays the bill, it debits accounts payable and credits the cash account. Again, the left (debit) and right (credit) sides of the journal entry should agree, reconciling to zero.



As a simple example, suppose Mary starts a lawn care company. She uses $2,000 that she has in her personal savings to purchase equipment. She then uses the equipment to complete her first lawn-care project, which pays her $500.



Using a double-entry accounting system, as shown below, she credits cash for $2,000 and debits her assets, which is the equipment, by the same amount. For her first job, she credits $500 in revenue and debits the same amount for accounts receivable. Both her credits and debits are reconciled and equal the same amount.










Mary's Lawn Care


Account
Debit
 Credit




 Cash
 
 $2,000


 Equipment
 $2,000
 


 Revenue
 
 $500


 Accounts Receivable
 $500
 






It's also possible to make a double-entry journal entry that affects the balance sheet only. For example, if a business takes out a long-term loan for $10,000, its accountant would debit the cash account (an asset on the balance sheet) and credit the long-term debt account (a liability on the balance sheet).



Another way of performing a reconciliation is via the account conversion method. Here, records such as receipts or canceled checks are simply compared with the entries in the general ledger, in a manner similar to personal accounting reconciliations.


   Types of Reconciliation  
  Reconciliation for individuals  

Many people reconcile their checkbooks and credit card accounts periodically by comparing their written checks, debit card receipts, and credit card receipts with their bank and credit card statements.



This type of account reconciliation makes it possible to check for errors and detect any possible fraud. It's also a good way for someone to get an overall picture of their spending.



When an account is reconciled, the statement's transactions should match the account holder's records. For a checking account, it is important to factor in any outstanding checks or pending deposits.


  Reconciliation for businesses  

Companies need to reconcile their accounts to prevent balance sheet errors, check for possible fraud, and avoid adverse opinions from auditors. Companies generally perform balance sheet reconciliations each month, after the books are closed for the prior month. This type of account reconciliation involves reviewing all balance sheet accounts to make sure that transactions were appropriately booked into the correct general ledger account. It may be necessary to adjust some journal entries if they were booked incorrectly.



Some reconciliations are necessary to ensure that cash inflows and outflows concur between the income statement, balance sheet, and cash flow statement.



Cash flow can be calculated through either a direct method or indirect method. GAAP requires that if the direct method is used, the company must still reconcile cash flows to the income statement and balance sheet.



If the indirect method is used, then the cash flow from the operations section is already presented as a reconciliation of the three financial statements. Other reconciliations turn non-GAAP measures, such as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA), into their GAAP-approved counterparts.




How Often Should a Business Reconcile Its Accounts?
Businesses are generally advised to reconcile their accounts at least monthly, but they can do so as often as they wish. Businesses that follow a risk-based approach to reconciliation will reconcile certain accounts more frequently than others, based on their greater likelihood of error.




How Often Should Individuals Reconcile Their Bank Statements?
It's a good idea to reconcile your checking account statement (or at least give it a careful look) when you receive it each month. One reason is that your liability for fraudulent transactions can depend on how promptly you report them to your bank.The rules vary depending on whether the thief used just your account number or your physical ATM or debit card. In the first instance, you aren't responsible for any transactions you didn’t authorize as long as you report them within 60 calendar days after your statement was sent to you.If your ATM or debt card was involved in a fraudulent transaction, your liability is limited to $50 if you notify the bank within two business days of noticing your card is missing, but rises to $500 after two days and up to 60 calendar days. After 60 days, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) notes, you'll be liable for "All the money taken from your ATM/debit card account, and possibly more—for example, money in accounts linked to your debit account."




What Is Single-Entry Bookkeeping?
In single-entry bookkeeping, every transaction is recorded just once (rather than twice, as in double-entry bookkeeping), as either income or an expense. Single-entry bookkeeping is less complicated than double-entry and may be adequate for smaller businesses. Companies with single-entry bookkeeping systems can perform a form of reconciliation by comparing invoices, receipts, and other documentation against the entries in their books.


   The Bottom Line  

Reconciliation serves an important purpose for businesses and individuals in preventing accounting errors and reducing the possibility of fraud.
What Is the Record Date?  

The record date, or date of record, is the cut-off date established by a company in order to determine which shareholders are eligible to receive a dividend or distribution. The determination of a record date is required to ascertain who exactly a company's shareholders are as of that date, since shareholders of an actively traded stock are continually changing. The shareholders of record as of the record date will be entitled to receive the dividend or distribution, declared by the company.





Key Takeaways

The record date is the cut-off date used to determine which shareholders are entitled to a corporate dividend.The record date will usually be the day following the ex-dividend date, which is the trading date on (and after) which the dividend is not owed to a new buyer of the stock.To be eligible for the dividend, you must buy the stock at least two business days before the record date.


   Understanding Record Date  

The record date is important because of its relation to another key date, the ex-dividend date. On and after the ex-dividend date, a buyer of the stock will not receive the dividend as the seller is entitled to it. A company’s record date is a key concept to understand before buying and selling dividend stocks. The exact definition of a record date may vary slightly between countries, such as between the London Stock Exchange (LSE) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).



The ex-dividend date is set exactly one business day before the dividend record date. This is because of the T+2 system of settlement presently used in North America, whereby stock trades settle two business days after the transaction is carried out. Thus, if an investor buys a stock one business day before its record date, their trade would only settle the day after the record date. They would therefore not be a shareholder of record for receiving the dividend.



Notably, different rules apply if the dividend is 25% or greater of the value of the security, which is quite rare. In this case, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) indicates that the ex-date is the first business day following the payable date.















Investopedia / Julie Bang.






To ensure that you are in the record books, you need to buy the stock at least two business days before the date of record, or one day before the ex-dividend date.﻿﻿


   Example of a Record Date  

Assume company Alpha has declared a dividend of $1, payable on May 1, to shareholders of record as of April 10. The record date is therefore April 10 and the ex-dividend date is one business day before the record date, or April 9 (if April 9–10 fall mid-week with no holidays).



If Sam wishes to receive the dividend of $1 per Alpha share, they should buy the stock before its ex-dividend date. If they buy Alpha shares on April 8, their trade will settle on April 10; since they are a shareholder of record as of April 10, they will receive the dividend. But if they wait for a day and buy Alpha shares on April 9, which is the ex-dividend date, their trade will only settle on April 11. They would not receive the dividend in this case as they were not a shareholder of Alpha as of the April 10 record date.
What Is Recourse?  

A recourse is a legal agreement that gives the lender the right to pledged collateral if the borrower is unable to satisfy the debt obligation. Recourse refers to the lender's legal right to collect. Recourse lending provides protection to lenders, as they are assured of having some repayment, either in cash or liquid assets. Companies that use recourse debt have a lower cost of capital, as there is less underlying risk in lending to that firm.





Key Takeaways

Recourse is the lender's legal right to collect the borrower’s pledged collateral if the borrower does not pay their debt obligation.Full recourse means that in addition to the collateral the lender can also seize other assets from the borrower to repay the debt.If a borrower defaults on a recourse loan, the lender might levy the borrower's bank accounts or garnish wages in order to repay the debt balance.A non-recourse loan, however, restricts the lender to claim only the specific asset pledged as collateral in the event of default.Recourse debt has two tax implications for borrowers that translate into recognizing taxable ordinary income and reporting a loss or gain.


   Understanding Recourse  

Recourse provides the legal means for a lender to seize a borrower's assets if the borrower defaults on a debt. If the debt is full recourse, the borrower is liable for the full amount of the debt even to the extent it exceeds the value of the collateralized asset.



Recourse debt allows the lender to take other assets from the borrower besides the collateral in order to repay the debt. In most cases, the lender may obtain a deficiency judgment to seize unpledged assets, levy bank accounts, or garnish wages. The lender may also go after other sources of income from the borrower, such as commissions, royalties, or investment income.


   Recourse vs. Non-Recourse  

Recourse loans are distinct from non-recourse loans, which limit the lender to claiming only the specific asset pledged as collateral. If a borrower defaults on a non-recourse loan and the value of the collateral does not cover the amount the borrower owes, the lender cannot attempt to recover the balance by seizing the borrower's other assets.



The lender only has a legal right to the pledged collateral. Because of this distinction, recourse debt favors the lender, while non-recourse debt favors the borrower.






Borrowers who have non-recourse loans generally must pay higher interest rates than recourse loans in order to compensate the lender for undertaking the additional risk.



Recourse debt is the more common form of debt because it is less risky for lenders. Non-recourse debt is usually limited to longer-term loans placed on stabilized and performing assets, such as commercial real estate.


   Tax Impact of Recourse on Borrowers  

Recourse debt has two tax implications for borrowers that translate into recognizing taxable ordinary income and reporting a loss or gain. When filing their taxes, the borrower must report as ordinary income any part of a debt that is forgiven by the lender.



For example, if a lender forecloses on a house to recover a $150,000 debt and sells it for $125,000, the borrower still owes $25,000. If the lender forgives the $25,000, the borrower must report this amount as ordinary income for tax purposes.



If the debt is non-recourse, the forgiveness of the loan does not result in taxable cancellation of debt income, since the terms of the loan do not give the lender any rights to pursue the owner personally in case of default.



Regardless of whether a debt is forgiven, the borrower must report a loss or gain based on the difference between the original loan amount and the amount realized in the sale of the asset. In the above example, the $25,000 must be reported as a loss. Losses incurred through the sale of deficient assets are not tax-deductible.


   Special Considerations  

Most loans are issued with recourse language included in the loan document. The language specifies the recourse actions the lender may take along with any limitations.



Generally, whether a loan is a recourse or non-recourse depends on the state where the loan originated. Most states provide for recourse for mortgage lenders, but it may be restricted in some way. For example, in some states, the deficiency judgment the lender can obtain against the borrower cannot exceed the fair market value (FMV) of the property.






Common types of recourse loans are credit cards, personal loans, and auto loans.



For example, consider a home that has a mortgage balance of $250,000 and a fair market value of $200,000. If the lender sells the home at auction for $150,000, it can only recover a $50,000 deficiency judgment against the borrower, which is the difference between the FMV and the amount the home sold for at auction. In some states, lenders are prohibited from obtaining deficiency judgments.


   Example of Recourse  

Company ABC is a delivery company that needs to replace its fleet of outdated trucks. It needs to buy five new trucks that cost a total of $250,000. Company ABC only has $50,000 in cash to spend on the trucks so it borrows $200,000 from Bank XYZ. The loan is a recourse loan and the pledged collateral is the trucks.



After three years, Company ABC's business has been performing poorly and it can no longer make payments on its loan to Bank XYZ. It still owes $125,000 on its loan. As per the terms of the recourse loan, Bank XYZ ceases the trucks that were pledged as collateral; however, due to the depreciation of the trucks, they are only worth $75,000, meaning there is a shortfall of $50,000 in covering the outstanding amount on the loan.



Because the value of the collateral does not cover the outstanding amount on the loan, and because the loan is a recourse loan, Bank XYZ seeks to obtain other assets of Company ABC to cover the difference. The two companies come to an agreement whereby Company ABC will hand over certain operating equipment with a total value of $50,000 to make whole on the loan.


   Questions & Answers  


What Is a Non-Recourse Loan?
A non-recourse loan is a loan whereby if the borrower defaults on the loan and the pledged collateral does not cover the outstanding amount on the loan, the lender is not able to go after other assets of the borrower to make up the difference. Most banks prefer not to issue non-recourse loans as it could leave them with a loss.




What Recourse Do I Have Against a Home Builder?
If a home builder has done a poor job in building your home, such as faulty floorboards, cracked ceilings, or other issues, as a homeowner you do have some recourse. The first step is to check your contracts and warranties. Most house builds will have warranties on the different areas of your home. If the warranties expire or do not cover a certain issue, depending on the issue, the builder may be in breach of contract or negligence given the work they have done. You can register complaints with the Better Business Bureau and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and speak to a lawyer to determine your options.




What Is Recourse Debt in a Partnership?
Recourse debt in a partnership means that a partner or multiple partners may be personally liable for the outstanding debt in a partnership. If the partnership has outstanding debt and cannot cover its loans, if it is a general partnership, it means that the lender can go after the personal assets of the partners if the collateral does not cover the outstanding amount. If the partnership is a limited liability company (LLC), then there is only limited recourse, and the lender cannot go after the personal assets of the partners.




What Is Limited Recourse Debt?
Recourse debt means that a lender can go after other assets of a borrower if the pledged collateral isn't sufficient enough to cover the outstanding debt that the borrower cannot pay. Recourse debt can be full or limited. Limited recourse debt means there is a limit to what assets a lender can seize in order to cover the outstanding loan. The assets are typically listed in the loan contract ahead of time.




What Is Full-Recourse Debt?
Recourse debt means that a lender can go after other assets of a borrower if the pledged collateral isn't sufficient enough to cover the outstanding debt that the borrower cannot pay. Recourse debt can be full or limited. Full-recourse debt means that the borrower can seize as many assets to cover the entire amount of the outstanding loan, not just specific assets.
What Is a Recourse Loan?  

The term recourse loan refers to a type of loan that can help a lender recoup its investment if a borrower fails to pay and the value of the underlying asset is not enough to cover it. A recourse loan is a form of secured financing. It lets the lender go after the debtor's other assets that were not used as loan collateral or to take legal action in case of default in order to pay off the full debt.





Key Takeaways

A recourse loan allows the lender to seize the collateral and any other assets the borrower has if they default.Assets that a lender may seize for a recourse loan include deposit accounts and income sources.Resource loan contracts generally outline which assets the lender may pursue.Most hard money loans are recourse loans.Lenders prefer recourse loans while borrowers prefer non-recourse loans—loans that only allow the seizure of the collateral.


   Understanding Recourse Loans  

Borrowers have several options available to them when they need financing. One type of loan is a secured facility. This kind of debt requires collateral—an asset that a borrower puts down as security. The lender is able to seize this asset and sell it to satisfy the debt in case the borrower defaults.



A recourse loan is a type of secured debt commonly found in some real estate and automobile loans. They give lenders a higher degree of power because they have fewer limits on what assets lenders can go after for loan repayment. In fact, a recourse loan allows the lender to seize the collateral as well as any other assets of the debtor. The lender may also take legal action against the borrower as well.






A recourse loan may be easier for borrowers to obtain, but it also puts more of their assets at risk in the event of a default.



The lender can seize money from the borrower’s savings, checking, or other financial accounts. They also grant the lender the right to tap into certain income sources of the borrower. This can include garnishing their wages. Garnishment is a legal procedure in which a lender obtains a court order requiring the person's employer to withhold a portion of their earnings in order to pay the debt. These earnings can include wages, commissions, bonuses, and even income from a pension or retirement program.



The contract and terms of a recourse loan generally outline the types of assets that a lender can go after if a debtor fails to live up to their financial obligations. For instance, a full recourse loan allows the lender to go after any and all assets. In limited recourse loans, the lender can only pursue assets that are named specifically in the contract.


   Types of Recourse Loans  

Certain types of financing can be classified as recourse loans. For example, hard money loans for real estate acquisitions would be considered recourse loans. The terms of a hard money loan give lenders the opportunity to take possession of the property in the event of default and then resell it themselves. Lenders may even agree to provide this financing with the hope of taking ownership of the property because they believe they can resell it for a greater gain.


   Recourse Loan vs. Non-Recourse Loan  

Non-recourse loans are also secured forms of financing but they are inherently different from recourse loans. If a borrower defaults, the lender is only allowed to seize the collateral used to secure the loan and nothing else. This means any balance that remains after the security is sold must be written off. Many traditional mortgages are non-recourse loans, using only the home itself as collateral. So, if the homeowner defaults, the lender may seize the home but not any other assets belonging to the borrower.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Recourse Loans  

Lenders that offer hard money loans may approve borrowers that other financial institutions would reject. For that reason, borrowers with a limited or poor credit history might turn to this type of loan. The leniency regarding approvals comes with a caveat for borrowers. The lender could go after the debtor's other assets in the event of a default. Note, though, that there can be limits on the types of assets the lender may attach to the loan—a good reason to read any contract carefully.



From the lender's point of view, a recourse loan reduces the perceived risk associated with less creditworthy borrowers. The potential for the lender to seize property beyond the initial collateral can quell some concerns that the borrower will not make good on the debt. But recourse loans such as hard money loans are often more expensive for the borrower than traditional financing provided by banks at the going rate. This is why lenders typically prefer issuing recourse loans, while borrowers prefer non-recourse loans.


   Example of a Recourse Loan  

Here's a hypothetical example of a recourse loan. Suppose a homeowner takes out a recourse loan for $500,000 to purchase a home and then goes into foreclosure after the local housing market declines. If the value of the home is now down to $400,000 and it was purchased with a recourse loan, the lending institution can go after the borrower's other assets in order to make up the outstanding $100,000 and pay off the loan to close it.
What Is Recovery Rate?  

Recovery rate is the extent to which principal and accrued interest on defaulted debt can be recovered, expressed as a percentage of face value. The recovery rate can also be defined as the value of a security when it emerges from default or bankruptcy.



The recovery rate enables an estimate to be made of the loss that would arise in the event of default. This is called loss given default (LGD) and is calculated by the following formula:


1 - Recovery Rate = Loss Given Default (LGD)



Thus, if the recovery rate is 60%, then the LGD is 40%. On a $10 million debt instrument, the estimated loss arising from default would be $4 million.





Key Takeaways

Recovery rate is the estimated percent of a loan or an obligation that will still be repaid to creditors in the event of a default or bankruptcy.In a firm’s capital structure, the recovery rate on senior debt will generally carry a high recovery rate, while junior debt may be relegated to a rate as low as nearly zero.Following the wave of defaults following the 2008 financial crisis, the average recovery rate for senior unsecured bonds dropped from 53.3% in 2007 to 33.8% in 2008. 


   Understanding Recovery Rates  

Recovery rates can vary widely, as they are affected by a number of factors, such as instrument type, corporate issues, and macroeconomic conditions. The type of instrument and its seniority within the corporate capital structure are among the most important determinants of the recovery rate. The recovery rate is affected by the instrument’s seniority in the capital structure, which means that senior debt will usually have a higher recovery rate than junior debt.



Corporate issues include the company’s capital structure, amount of equity, and level of indebtedness. Debt instruments issued by a company with a lower level of debt in relation to its assets may have higher recovery rates than a company with substantially more debt. For example, the recovery rate on senior secured bonds will often have a high recovery rate, while holders of junior subordinated bonds can expect a recovery rate of close to zero.



Macroeconomic conditions include the stage of the economic cycle, the overall default rate, and liquidity conditions. If a large number of companies are defaulting on their debt—as would be the case during a deep recession—then the recovery rates may be lower than during normal economic times. For example, a Moody’s Investors Service study, “Corporate Default and Recovery Rates, 1920–2008,” found that “the average recovery rate for senior unsecured bonds dropped from 53.3% in 2007 to 33.8% in 2008,” a result of the Great Recession that gripped the United States from December 2007 to June 2009.


   Recovery Rates and Lending  

In lending, the recovery rate can be applied to cash extended via loans or credit and recovered by foreclosure or bankruptcy. Knowing how to properly calculate and apply a recovery rate can help businesses set rates and terms for future credit transactions. For example, if a recovery rate turns out to be lower than expected, lenders can increase interest rates on a loan or shorten its payout cycle to better manage the added risk.


   Calculating the Recovery Rate  

To calculate the recovery rate, one must first choose what type of group to focus on and set a time period, such as weeks, months, or years. Once a target group is identified, add up how much money was extended to it over the given time period, then add up the total sum paid back by that group. Next, divide the total payment amount by the total amount of debt. The result is the recovery rate.



For example, during one week, you extended $15,000 in credit and received $2,000 in payments. Therefore, $2,000 ÷ $15,000 = 13.33%, which is the recovery rate for the week.




What does recovery rate mean?
Recovery rate is the percentage of defaulted debt that can be recovered by a lender. It is also the value of a security after it emerges from default or bankruptcy.




What is the value of knowing the recovery rate?
Knowing approximately how much debt you can recover is useful for setting the terms and interest rates for future credit transactions. It allows lenders to accurately account for risk.




Is the recovery rate the same for all debt?
No. It can vary greatly depending on the kind of debt in question. Generally, senior debt has a higher recovery rate than junior debt. Other factors that influence the recovery rate include corporate capital structure, type of debt instrument, level of indebtedness, and macroeconomic issues.
What Is Recurring Billing?  

Recurring billing happens when a merchant automatically charges a customer for goods or services on a prearranged schedule. Recurring billing requires the merchant to get the customer’s information and permission. The vendor will then automatically make recurring charges to the customer’s account with no further permissions needed.



Any good or service that a customer subscribes to with regularly scheduled payments might be a good candidate for recurring billing. Examples include cable bills, cell phone bills, gym membership fees, utility bills, and magazine subscriptions. Recurring billing may also be referred to as automatic bill payment.





Key Takeaways

Recurring billing occurs when a business automatically deducts a customer’s payment on a regularly scheduled basis.Any good or service that a customer subscribes to with regularly scheduled payments might be a good candidate for recurring billing. Business providers may require recurring billing and some providers may give discounts when recurring billing is used.Recurring billing is advantageous for business providers because it reduces account receivable risks.For customers, recurring billing can save them time, too; they only need to sign up and provide their payment information one time.


   Understanding Recurring Billing  

Recurring billing offers the benefit of convenience. Instead of having to provide billing information for a routine charge repeatedly, the customer can authorize the merchant to keep payment details on file. Then, the merchant can charge the designated account each month that service is in effect or each time that the agreed-upon goods or services are delivered. It is typically up to the business provider to decide on the options for payment. Some providers require that checking or saving accounts be used while others allow for checking, savings, and credit card accounts.


   Example of Recurring Billing  

Consider the example of a customer and a pet store. The customer sets up an order with an online pet store to have three bags of dog food delivered every three months. Authorizing recurring billing would let this purchase happen automatically on a regular three-month schedule with a charge to a designated credit card. Other examples where recurring billing is often used include electric bills, phone bills, and Internet services. Many companies offer a small monthly discount to customers when they sign up for recurring billing. This helps to lower some of the risks of any missed payments.


   Types of Recurring Billing  
  Fixed Recurring Billing  

In fixed (or regular) recurring billing, the same amount is collected from the customer in every payment cycle. Companies that provide services for a fixed price typically use fixed recurring billing. For example, a gym membership is an example of fixed recurring billing. If you subscribe to The New York Times or any other newspaper, you are billed using fixed recurring billing.



For a business, this model provides stable and continuous revenue.






The terms subscription billing and recurring billing are often used interchangeably. These models are similar: Both subscription and recurring billing involve an automatic payment system, storage of customer’s payment information, and periodic withdrawal of credit from the customer’s account. The main difference between the two models is the pricing plans. Subscription businesses can have multiple pricing plans, while it's not necessary for there to be different tiers of pricing in a recurring billing model; the billing mechanism remains the same.


  Variable Recurring Billing  

In variable (or irregular) recurring billing, the amount collected from the customer might change in every payment cycle. Depending on the customer's usage of the product, a new, dynamic bill is created for each cycle.



Usage-based billing is a type of variable recurring billing where a customer is recurrently charged based on their usage of the service. Utility bills are a common example of usage-based billing.



Quantity-based billing is another type of variable recurring billing. With this model, customers are billed based on a quantity that was agreed upon when they purchased. Volume-based cloud storage services are one example of quantity-based billing.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Recurring Billing  
  Disadvantages  

One drawback of recurring billing for consumers is that it can be troublesome to correct a billing error. Instead of receiving a bill, noticing a mistake, then refusing to pay the bill until the mistake is corrected, the consumer may be automatically billed for the incorrect amount, requiring additional time to obtain a refund. Thus, it is safest to agree to recurring billing for payments that are always about the same amount and occur on a predictable schedule because you’re more likely to quickly notice any billing errors.



Recurring billing can also lead to overlooked expenses for customers who forget about the charges. Some people will pay their credit card bills without reviewing each listed charge. They could be paying for a service they no longer require or didn't even know they were getting. Recurring and automatic billing is also pointed to as the source of scamming seniors.



Moreover, in some cases, recurring billing can lead to halted services if an account is declined. When recurring billing is used it can be important to tie it to a major checking account or savings account that carries a high balance. Any interruption in service due to a declined charge can be problematic for a customer.


  Advantages  

Many services only allow customers to sign up if they agree to recurring billing. For example, virus software and credit monitoring service agreements often require the customer to agree to be charged for the service periodically. They require the customer to cancel the service, or it will continue, indefinitely. In this way, recurring billing can help merchants with customer retention.



Recurring billing has several other benefits for merchants. It ensures prompt payment from customers, helps with cash flow, lowers billing and collection costs, and automates a portion of accounts receivable. It can also improve customer satisfaction by making it more convenient for the customer to do business with a company.



However, recurring billing doesn’t eliminate all administrative tasks. For example, merchants will need to contact consumers about updating their payment information if a credit card expires or a credit card issuer declines an attempted recurring charge. Merchants that offer recurring billing usually make it easy for consumers to manage their billing information and preferences online.



Many merchants use sophisticated systems to help them manage all aspects of recurring billing. A well-designed system allows a merchant to automate invoicing and payment details for recordkeeping purposes. Most billing systems also allow a customer to easily check their account details, change their payment information, opt-out of service before a free trial converts to a paid subscription, or cancel an unwanted subscription.



For customers, recurring billing can save them time, too. They only need to sign up and provide their payment information one time. This can be a relief for customers because they don't. have to make sure the bill is paid every cycle.





Cons of Recurring Billing

Hard to correct billing errors
Easy for consumers to overlook expenses
Source of scamming for seniors
Can lead to halted services



Pros of Recurring Billing

Helps with customer retention
Ensures prompt payment
Helps with cash flow
Lowers billing and collection costs
Saves customers time





   Recurring Billing FAQs  
  How Do You Set Up a Recurring Payment on PayPal?  

With PayPal Recurring Payments, merchants can regularly bill their customers for goods or services. In order to set up PayPal Recurring Payments, you must have a PayPal Business account. Once you have a PayPal Business account, PayPal provides detailed instructions on its website for how to set up subscription plans and accept PayPal, credit, and debit card payments on your website. 


  How Do You Cancel a Recurring Payment on PayPal?  

If you are a customer and you want to cancel a recurring payment, subscription, or automatic billing agreement you have with a merchant, the first step is to log in to your PayPal account. Click on "Settings" near the top of the page. Then, click on "Payments." Next, click on "Manage pre-approved payments." Finally, click "Cancel" or "Cancel automatic billing" and follow the instructions. More information can be found on PayPal's website in their help center, under the question, "How do I cancel a recurring payment, subscription, or automatic billing agreement I have with a merchant?"


  How Do You Cancel a Recurring Payment on a Credit Card?  

The best way to stop recurring payments on a credit card is to contact the service provider directly. Depending on the service, you should be able to contact them online, by phone, in person, or by mail. If you want to avoid an additional payment going through, it is advisable to contact them at least three days before the next scheduled payment date.


  How Do You Cancel a Recurring Payment on a Debit Card?  

If you want to stop automatic debits from your account, you have a couple of different options. You can contact the company directly, either via writing or over the phone, and tell them you are taking away your permission for the company to take automatic payments out of your bank account. Once you have done this, you should call or write to your bank or credit union and tell them that you have revoked authorization for the company to take automatic payments from your account.



Even if you have revoked your authorization with the company, you can take the additional step of contacting your financial institution and giving them a "stop payment order." A stop payment order instructs your bank to stop allowing the company to take payments from your account.
What is Recurring Revenue?  

Recurring revenue is the portion of a company's revenue that is expected to continue in the future. Unlike one-off sales, these revenues are predictable, stable and can be counted on to occur at regular intervals going forward with a relatively high degree of certainty.


   Understanding Recurring Revenue  

Businesses, investors and analysts pay particular attention to a company’s revenue, also known as its top line, recorded on the income statement. The top line determines the bottom line, or profit, since all expenses and taxes are subtracted from revenues to get net income.



Revenue can consist of one-time sales or a stream of expected periodic sales. The latter, known as recurring revenue, is very important to businesses that are concerned with maintaining a constant and consistent stream of revenue.





Key Takeaways

Revenue can consist of one-time sales or a stream of expected periodic sales, known as recurring revenue.Recurring revenue can appear in different forms across various industries.Recurring revenue is considered a highly desirable quality for a company to have.However, there are no guarantees that recurring revenues will last indefinitely.


   Examples of Recurring Revenue  

Recurring revenue can appear in different forms across various industries. Examples can range from companies who receive monthly payments from customers locked into long-term contracts extending beyond the current accounting period to big name brands that can reasonably expect their popular, market-leading products to continue being at the top of consumer shopping lists for years to come.


  Long-Term Contracts  

In many industries, it is normal for companies to tie their customers into long-term obligations in exchange for regular, active use of a service. For example, cell phone firms typically require customers to enter two-, three- or even five-year contracts with monthly payments.



These companies will record these future revenues as they are almost certain that monthly payments will be made over the duration of the legal-binding contracts signed by customers.



They also generally build cancellation clauses into their contracts, requiring that customers pay a certain amount in the event that they cancel their contract early. If the provider can estimated the early cancellation percentage, they can relatively accurately forecast all revenues from contracts, whether fulfilled or not.


  Auto-Renewing Subscriptions  

Evergreen subscriptions, including auto-renewal policies such as Microsoft Corp.’s (MSFT) Office 365, Norton/McAfee anti-virus registrations, cloud services, music streaming, internet domain registrations, print or digital news publications, etc. are other examples of sources of revenue that are recurring for a firm.



Companies are sure to collect on these payments until customers terminate their subscriptions. Monthly recurring revenue, an important metric for subscription-based businesses, is calculated by multiplying the total number of paying users by the average revenue per user (ARPU).


  Cross-selling Supplementary Goods  

Companies that sell products that can only be used with other accessories produced by the same firm can often count on receiving predictable revenue in the future.



For example, a toilet bowl brush stick that can only be used with specific scrubbing brushes, a shaving stick which only fits customized razors, a personal coffee maker that only accepts one brand of cups, and the like will always require refills, the sales of which act as recurring revenues for businesses.


  Big Brands with Loyal Customer Bases  

Companies with an established brand name in its market space have a loyal base of customers that are very likely to keep purchasing its products. A good example is Coca-Cola Co. (KO).



The soft drink maker’s beverages are consumed by customers all over the world multiple times a day. For decades, its products have been purchased frequently enough for Coca-Cola to state with reasonable assurance how many bottles or cans it will likely continue to sell in the future.


   Special Considerations  

Many market pundits consider recurring revenue to be a highly desirable quality. They make a company more stable and predictable, both operationally and financially, lowering the risk that business will take a drastic turn from one month to the next.



That stability usually comes at a cost. Investors are regularly willing to pay more for the earnings generated by companies with recurring revenues because their forecasts are deemed more reliable. Of course, that also means that any sign of falling sales can incite more panic. Contracts eventually end and company fortunes and market strength can fluctuate over time as consumer habits change and new competitors enter the market.
What Is a Red Herring?  

A red herring is a preliminary prospectus filed by a company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), usually in connection with the company's initial public offering (IPO). A red herring prospectus contains most of the information pertaining to the company's operations and prospects but does not include key details of the security issue, such as its price and the number of shares offered.


   How a Red Herring Works  

A red herring prospectus may refer to the first prospectus filed with the SEC as well as a variety of subsequent drafts created prior to obtaining approval for public release. To be considered eligible for release, the SEC must thoroughly review a red herring prospectus to ensure the information contained therein does not include any intentional or incidental falsehoods or statements that are in violation of any laws or regulations. The SEC may also note any failure to disclose required information.



The term "red herring" is derived from the bold disclaimer in red on the cover page of the preliminary prospectus. The disclaimer states that a registration statement relating to the securities being offered has been filed with the SEC but has not yet become effective. That is, the information contained in the prospectus is incomplete and may be changed. Thus, the securities may not be sold, and offers to buy may not be accepted before the registration statement becomes effective. The red herring does not state a price or issue size. You might look at it as the case of a drug having good effectiveness data submitted to the FDA for approval, but that has not received the FDA approval yet, but in this case, no approval is granted, only effective registration.



Once the registration statement becomes effective, the company disseminates a final prospectus that contains the final IPO price and issue size. Expressions of interest then convert to orders for the issue at the buyer's option. The minimum period between a registration statement filing and its effective date is 15 days. The SEC does not approve the securities but simply ensures that all relevant information is disclosed in the registration statement.






A red herring is a preliminary document filed with the SEC that notes a security offering has been filed but is not yet effective.


   Benefits of a Red Herring  

A red herring prospectus can function as a source of information regarding a potential offering that is currently being crafted by a particular company. Versions of the prospectus that have not been fully reviewed by the SEC may present a company "too" favorably. This view may be adjusted after the SEC has requested revisions before final approval.



The red herring prospectus contains substantial information on the company as well as information regarding the intended use of proceeds from the offering, market potential for its product or service, financial statements, details regarding pertinent management personnel and current major shareholders, pending litigation, and other pertinent details.





Key Takeaways

A red herring is a preliminary prospectus filed with the SEC, usually in connection with an IPO—excludes key details of the issue, such as price and number of shares offered.The document states that a registration statement has been filed with the SEC but is not yet effective.Information in a red herring is subject to change and the SEC merely ensures all proper information is disclosed. 


   Example of a Red Herring  

Facebook Inc. (META), now Meta, filed a red herring, which was essentially a Form S-1 with a disclosure. The “red” bold disclaimer on Facebook’s filing on Feb. 1, 2012, read:



The information in this prospectus is not complete and may be changed. Neither we nor the selling stockholders may sell these securities until the registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission is effective. This prospectus is not an offer to sell these securities and neither we nor the selling stockholders are soliciting offers to buy these securities in any state where the offer or sale is not permitted.
What Is Redemption?  

Depending on the context, the term redemption has different uses in the finance and business world. In finance, redemption refers to the repayment of any fixed-income security at or before the asset's maturity date. Bonds are the most common type of fixed-income security, but others include certificates of deposit (CDs), Treasury notes (T-notes), and preferred shares.



Another use of the term redemption is in the context of coupons and gift cards, which consumers may redeem for products and services.





Key Takeaways

In finance, redemption describes the repayment of a fixed-income security—such as a Treasury note, certificate of deposit, or bond—on or before its maturity date. Mutual fund investors can request redemptions for all or part of their shares from their fund manager.Redemptions may trigger capital gains or losses for the investor.The investor's taxation of capital gains will be reduced by any capital losses recognized in the same year.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Redemptions  

People who invest in fixed-income securities, such as bonds, receive fixed interest payments at regular intervals. Bonds can be redeemed before or on their maturity date. If redeemed at the time of maturity, an investor receives the par value (also called the face value) of the bond. This refers to the original value of the bond when it was first issued and is the amount of money the issuer of the bond agrees to repay the bondholder.



A callable bond, also known as a redeemable bond, is a bond that the issuer may redeem before it reaches its stated maturity date. Redemption value is the price at which the issuing company will repurchase the bond from investors before its maturity date. A callable bond allows the issuer of the bond to pay off its debt early. An issuer may choose to call their bond if market interest rates move lower.



A mutual fund is another example of an investment that an investor can redeem. To make a mutual fund redemption, the investor must inform their fund manager of their request. The manager must process the request within a certain amount of time and distribute the funds to the investor. The amount owed to the investor is normally the current market value of their shares less any fees and other charges.



As consumers, we often make redemptions in our everyday lives. For example, a coupon or gift card is a form of redemption because the value of the coupon or card is redeemed for a good or service.






   Capital Gains and Losses on Redemptions  

The redemption of an investment may generate a capital gain or loss, both of which are recognized on fixed-income investments and mutual fund shares. Taxation of capital gains is reduced by capital losses recognized in the same year. Mutual fund gains and losses are included in the same capital gain calculation.



To compute the capital gain or loss on redemption, the investor must know the cost basis, which is the original value or purchase price of the asset. Bonds can be purchased at a price other than the par or face amount of the bond.



Assume, for example, that an investor buys a $1,000 par value corporate bond at a discounted price of $900 and receives a $1,000 par value when the bond is redeemed at maturity. The investor has a $100 capital gain for the year, and the tax liability for the gain is offset by any capital losses the investor might have. If the same investor purchases a second $1,000 par value corporate bond for $1,050 and the bond is redeemed for $1,000 at maturity, the $50 capital loss reduces the $100 capital gain for tax purposes.


   Types of Redemptions  

Most redemptions are made for cash. So when a mutual fund investor requests a redemption, the fund management company will issue the investor a check for the shares at market value. But there are cases where redemptions may be made in-kind.


  In-Kind Redemptions  

In-kind redemptions are non-monetary payments made for securities or other instruments. Rarely used in the mutual fund industry, in-kind redemptions are common with exchange traded funds (ETFs). Fund managers may feel redemptions hurt long-term investors. Therefore, instead of paying out cash to those who wish to exit a fund, they offer positions in other securities on a pro-rata basis.



ETFs are generally considered more tax-friendly than mutual funds. By issuing shares in-kind, the ETF does not have to sell securities to raise cash for redemption payouts. This, in turn, eliminates the need for capital gains distributions, cutting down the investor's tax liability.


  Mutual Fund Redemptions  

The redemption of fund shares from a mutual fund company must occur within seven days of receiving a request for redemption from the investor. Because mutual funds are priced only once per day, investors who wish to redeem their money must place the order before the market's close or the time set by the mutual fund.



Money is redeemed at the fund's net asset value (NAV) for the day, which is calculated as the sum of the value of the assets of a fund less than its liabilities. Once the sale is completed, clients typically receive their funds including any gains via check or direct deposit to their bank account.



Some mutual funds may have redemption fees attached in the form of a back-end load. A back-end load is a sales charge—a percentage of the fund's value that declines over time. If the investor holds the fund shares for a longer amount of time, the back-end load charged when the shares are redeemed is smaller.



Investments in mutual funds are designed for individuals who buy and hold fund shares for the long term and selling fund shares after a short period of time results in higher costs to the investor. The investor pays sales charges and annual fees for professional portfolio management and the fund's accounting and legal costs.
What Is Redlining?  

Redlining is a discriminatory practice that puts services (financial and otherwise) out of reach for residents of certain areas based on race or ethnicity. Redlining is illegal.



It can be seen in the systematic denial of mortgages, insurance, loans, and other financial services based on location (and that area’s default history) rather than on an individual’s qualifications and creditworthiness. Notably, the policy of redlining is felt the most by residents of minority neighborhoods.





Key Takeaways

Redlining is the discriminatory practice of denying services (typically financial) to residents of certain areas based on their race or ethnicity.Under fair lending laws, these factors cannot be used to make lending or underwriting decisions.Redlining is most often associated with mortgage lending practices, but can also be seen in student loans, business loans, car loans, and personal loans.Due to discriminatory lending practices, homeownership and wealth in redlined communities is much lower than in non-minority communities.  Today, redlining is an illegal practice.


   How Redlining Works  

The term “redlining” was coined by sociologist John McKnight in the 1960s and derives from how the federal government and lenders would literally draw a red line on a map around the neighborhoods where they would not invest based on demographics alone.



Black inner-city neighborhoods were most likely to be redlined. Investigations found that lenders would make loans to lower-income white borrowers but not to middle- or upper-income African Americans.



Unable to get regular mortgages, Black residents who wanted to own a house often were forced to resort to exploitatively priced housing contracts that massively increased the cost of housing and gave them no equity until their last payment was delivered. Chicago's Contract Buyers League was formed in the 1960s by a group of inner-city residents to fight these practices.


   Effects of Redlining  

In the 1930s the federal government began redlining real estate, marking “risky” neighborhoods for federal mortgage loans on the basis of race. The result of this redlining in real estate could still be felt decades later. In 1996, homes in redlined neighborhoods were worth less than half that of the homes in what the government had deemed as “best” for mortgage lending, according to research by home-sale company Zillow. That disparity has only grown greater in the following two decades.



Examples of redlining can be found in a variety of financial services, including not only mortgages but also student loans, credit cards, and insurance. Although the Community Reinvestment Act was passed in 1977 to help prevent redlining, critics say discrimination continues to occur.



For example, redlining has been used to describe discriminatory practices by retailers, both brick-and-mortar and online. Reverse redlining is the practice of targeting neighborhoods (mostly non-white) for higher prices or lending on unfair terms, such as predatory lending of subprime mortgages.



There's also evidence of what Midwest BankCentre CEO Orv Kimbrough calls "corporate redlining." As reported by The Business Journals, since peaking prior to the 2008 financial crisis, the annual number of loans to Black-owned businesses through the U.S. Small Business Administration's 7(a) program decreased by 84%, compared to a 53% decline in 7(a) loans awarded overall.



The report also found an overall trend of significantly less lending to businesses in Black-majority neighborhoods, compared to White-majority ones. 


   Legality of Redlining  

Courts have determined that redlining is illegal when lending institutions use race as a basis for excluding neighborhoods from access to loans. In addition, the Fair Housing Act, which is part of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, prohibits discrimination in lending to individuals in neighborhoods based on their racial composition. However, the law does not prohibit excluding neighborhoods or regions on the basis of geological factors, such as fault lines or flood zones.



The destructive legacy of redlining has been more than economic. A 2020 study by researchers at the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, the University of Wisconsin/Milwaukee, and the University of Richmond found that "the history of redlining, segregation, and disinvestment not only reduced minority wealth, it impacted health and longevity, resulting in a legacy of chronic disease and premature death in many high minority neighborhoods...On average, life expectancy is lower by 3.6 years in redlined communities, when compared to the communities that existed at the same time, but were high-graded by the HOLC."



While redlining neighborhoods or regions based on race is illegal, lending institutions may take economic factors into account when making loans. Lending institutions are not required to approve all loan applications on the same terms and may impose higher rates or stricter repayment terms on some borrowers. However, these considerations must be based on economic factors and cannot, under U.S. law, be based on race, religion, national origin, sex, or marital status.






Lenders are not forbidden from redlining areas with regard to geological factors, such as fault lines or flood zones.


   What Factors Are Lenders Allowed to Consider?  

Banks may legally take the following factors into consideration when deciding whether to make loans to applicants and on which terms:



Credit history: Lenders may legally evaluate an applicant’s creditworthiness as determined by FICO scores and reports from credit bureaus.
Income: Lenders may consider an applicant’s regular source of funds, which can include income from employment, business ownership, investments, or annuities.
Property condition: A lending institution may evaluate the property on which it is making the loan as well as the condition of nearby properties. These evaluations must be based strictly on economic considerations.
Neighborhood amenities and city services: Lenders may take into account amenities that enhance or detract from the value of a property.
The lending institution’s portfolio: Lending institutions may take into account their requirements to have a portfolio that is diversified by region, structure type, and loan amount.






Housing discrimination is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) or with HUD.



Lenders must evaluate each of the above factors without regard to the race, religion, national origin, sex, or marital status of the applicant.



Mortgage applicants and homebuyers who believe that they might have been discriminated against can take their concerns to a fair housing center, the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, or in the case of mortgages and other home loans, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.




Where Does the Term "Redlining" Come From?
The term “redlining” was coined by sociologist John McKnight in the 1960s and derives from how the federal government and lenders would literally draw a red line on a map around the neighborhoods they would not invest in based on demographics alone. In the 1930s the federal government began redlining real estate, marking “risky” neighborhoods for federal mortgage loans on the basis of race.




Why Is Redlining Discriminatory?
Redlining is discriminatory practice as it puts services (financial and otherwise) out of reach for residents of certain areas based on race or ethnicity. It can be seen in the systematic denial of mortgages, insurance, loans, and other financial services based on location (and that area’s default demographic) rather than on the individual’s qualifications and creditworthiness. Black inner-city neighborhoods were most likely to be redlined. Investigations found that lenders would make loans to lower-income Whites but not to middle- or upper-income African Americans. The result of this redlining in real estate could still be felt decades later.




What Factors Can Banks Use When Making Loans?
Banks, and other lending institutions, are allowed to take economic factors into account when making loans. If these decisions are based solely on economic factors, then lending institutions are not required to approve all loan applications on the same terms and may impose higher rates or stricter repayment terms on some borrowers. However, according to U.S. law, they cannot base their approval decisions on race, religion, national origin, sex, or marital status.


   The Bottom Line  

Redlining represents a shameful chapter in the long history of American racial discrimination. By denying federal housing loans to people in minority communities, the federal government effectively denied the benefits of homeownership to millions of American citizens. Although racial redlining is now illegal, unofficial forms of discrimination continue to this day.
What Is a Reference Number?  

A reference number is a unique identifier assigned to any financial transaction including those made using a credit or debit card. The reference number is created technologically and designated for a single transaction. A reference number helps an institution identify transactions in records and electronic databases used to monitor transactions associated with a card. Reference numbers from each transaction on a customer’s account are usually included in a cardholder’s monthly statement.





Key Takeaways

Reference numbers are identifiers (a group of random numbers and/or letters) assigned to credit or debit transactions.  These are used to track transactions and make it easier and quicker for customer service reps.Reference numbers are often used in correspondence about a credit or debit transaction.Other types of reference numbers can include those on credit cards or loan applications.They can also include those given by merchants during a transaction, or those given by customer service reps when a customer inquires about a product or service.


   Understanding a Reference Number  

Reference numbers are used by financial institutions to make compiling and queries of millions of transactions easier to manage. They are generated once a transaction is completed and are made up of a combination of random letters and numbers. Reference numbers are generally assigned to transactions such as certain deposits and withdrawals, bank transfers, wire transfers, and bill payments.



These numbers are used in both printed statements and online banking statements that a cardholder can access at any time. Credit card statements provide a summary of all of the transactions a cardholder makes during a given time period. Regulations require card companies to provide cardholders with instructions concerning the contents of the statement, as well as how to read and understand the different sections.






Some companies may use the term file number when referring to a reference number.


   Special Considerations  

Reference numbers make it easier for customers to interact with customer service representatives. Consumers can communicate questionable transactions to the representative, who can then investigate them through their database to obtain more details about the transactions. For example, a customer may simply reference “transaction 123456” instead of using the store and date of the transaction. The descriptive elements of the transaction are maintained in the transaction metadata in the card company’s database.



Each transaction’s reference number provides a valuable identifier to help make the resolution process much faster for all transaction queries and any fraudulent charges. Card companies can track comprehensive information about a transaction by its reference number. With the reference number, the company can identify the merchant or seller, as well as the card terminal or terminal owner that was used to execute the transaction.



If a card has been compromised or used for fraudulent purposes, card companies can void the charges by using the reference number in the pending phase.


   Types of Reference Numbers   

In some cases, customer service inquiries and calls may also generate a reference number. For example, if a customer calls to inquire about a product or service, the customer service representative may give that consumer a reference number to quote if they call back at a future date in order to complete the transaction. Reference numbers also provide operational transaction details for merchants. Merchants can use reference numbers to identify and track every transaction made by their business.



Reference numbers may also be assigned to a credit card or loan application. The location of the reference number, in this case, varies depending on the issuer or provider. Typically, it’s at the end of an application form or provided in an email or letter from the company. Most reference numbers will be found at the top of the application submission form which shows up after submitting an application. It’s also usually quoted at the top of a follow-up email or letter from the company. Many companies provide reference numbers for credit cards or loans, while some do not. 



A booking reference number is used by airlines, hotels, travel agents, and online travel companies. These unique codes are specific to an individual travel reservation. These codes are also called confirmation numbers and show up on airline tickets and hotel reservation systems. If a customer wishes to change or cancel a reservation, the booking reference number will help the customer service representative identify the reservation details in the system.




What Is a UPS Reference Number?
A United Parcel Service (UPS) reference number is also called a UPS pickup reference number. One or more parties to the shipment will use this series of characters or numbers to help UPS Freight correctly identify the shipment. The carrier can designate the reference number from various sources, including the return authorization number.




What Is a FedEx Reference Number?
While many customers will track a FedEx (FDX) package with a tracking number, a reference number provides an alternative way for customers to locate their packages. Examples of a FedEx reference number include a purchase order (PO) number, customer account number, invoice number, and bill of lading number. Having access to one or more of these numbers helps customers track the status of their shipment and verify delivery.




What Is a Fed Reference Number?
Banks use federal reference numbers to track wire transfers of money. The receipt for the wire transfer will include a section labeled "Fed Reference" or "Federal Reference." This is where you will find a unique series of numbers that you can use to investigate and track the electronic wire transfer from the initiating bank to the receiving bank.
What Is a Reference Rate?  

A reference rate is an interest rate benchmark used to set other interest rates. Various types of transactions use different reference rate benchmarks, but the most common include the Fed Funds Rate, LIBOR, the prime rate, and the rate on benchmark U.S. Treasury securities. 



Reference rates are useful in homeowner mortgages and sophisticated interest rate swap transactions made by institutions.





Key Takeaways

The phrase reference rate refers to the benchmark rate, against which other interest rates are pegged.A common reference rate might be LIBOR, which would be used as a reference in interest rate swaps or an interest rate agreement.LIBOR is the London inter-bank lending rate, used as a reference rate for many other interest rates.Reference rates are used in an adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM), in which the borrower's interest rate is the reference rate—usually, the prime rate—added to an additional set amount, called the spread.


   How a Reference Rate Works  

Depending on the writing of a security or financial contract, the reference rate can be harder to understand. Difficulties happen especially if the rate is in the form of an inflation benchmark, such as the Consumer Price Index (CPI or as a measure of economic health, such as the unemployment rate or corporate default rate.



Reference rates are at the core of an adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM). With an ARM, the borrower's interest rate will be the reference rate, usually the prime rate, plus an additional fixed amount, known as the spread. From the lender's viewpoint, the reference rate is a guaranteed rate of borrowing. At a minimum, the lender always earns the spread as profit. For the borrower, however, changes in the reference rate can have a definite financial impact. If the reference rate makes a sudden move upward, borrowers who pay floating interest rates can see their payments rise dramatically.



Reference rates also form the benchmark for an interest rate swap. In an interest rate swap, the floating reference rate is exchanged by one party for a fixed interest rate or a set of payments. The reference rate will determine the floating interest rate portion of the contract.


   Reference Rate Example  

Let's say a homebuyer needs to borrow $40,000 to help finance the purchase of a new home. The bank offers a variable interest rate loan at prime plus 1%. That means the interest rate for the loan equals the prime rate plus 1%. Therefore, if the prime rate is 4%, then your mortgage carries an interest rate of 5% (4%+1%). In this case, the prime rate is the reference rate.



The bank may "reset" the rate from time to time as the reference rate fluctuates. When the prime rate goes up, your rate also goes up. Adversely, when the prime rate falls, so does your payment rate. By allowing the bank to "reset" the rate, it avoids the chance that the borrower may default on the loan, which causes the bank to lose money. Borrowers also benefit from a "reset" of rate. It helps them avoid overpaying for a loan if prime rates happen to go down after the finalization of the loan.



The consumer price index is the reference rate for Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, known as TIPS. TIPS are U.S Treasury securities that are indexed to inflation to protect investors from the counteractive effects of inflation. TIPS will pay interest every six months using the basis of a fixed rate applied to the underlying principle. Calculation of interest uses the adjusted principal multiplied by one-half of the interest rate. On maturity, the U.S. Treasury will pay either the original or an adjusted principal, whichever is higher.
What Is a Refinance?  

A refinance, or "refi" for short, refers to the process of revising and replacing the terms of an existing credit agreement, usually as it relates to a loan or mortgage. When a business or an individual decides to refinance a credit obligation, they effectively seek to make favorable changes to their interest rate, payment schedule, or other terms outlined in their contract. If approved, the borrower gets a new contract that takes the place of the original agreement.



Borrowers often choose to refinance when the interest-rate environment changes substantially, causing potential savings on debt payments from a new agreement.





Key Takeaways

A refinance occurs when the terms of an existing loan, such as interest rates, payment schedules, or other terms, are revised.Borrowers tend to refinance when interest rates fall.Refinancing involves the re-evaluation of a person or business’s credit and repayment status.Consumer loans often considered for refinancing include mortgage loans, car loans, and student loans.


   How a Refinance Works  

Consumers generally seek to refinance certain debt obligations in order to obtain more favorable borrowing terms, often in response to shifting economic conditions. Common goals from refinancing are to lower one's fixed interest rate to reduce payments over the life of the loan, to change the duration of the loan, or to switch from a fixed-rate mortgage to an adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) or vice versa.



Borrowers may also refinance because their credit profile has improved, because of changes made to their long-term financial plans, or to pay off their existing debts by consolidating them into one low-priced loan.



The most common motivation for refinancing is the interest-rate environment. Because interest rates are cyclical, many consumers choose to refinance when rates drop. National monetary policy, the economic cycle, and market competition can be key factors causing interest rates to increase or decrease for consumers and businesses.






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps you can take. One such step is to file a report to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).



These factors can influence interest rates across all types of credit products, including both non-revolving loans and revolving credit cards. In a rising-rate environment, debtors with variable-interest-rate products end up paying more in interest; the reverse is true in a falling-rate environment.



In order to refinance, a borrower must approach either their existing lender or a new one with the request and complete a new loan application. Refinancing subsequently involves re-evaluating an individual's or a business's credit terms and financial situation. Consumer loans typically considered for refinancing include mortgage loans, car loans, and student loans.



Businesses may also seek to refinance mortgage loans on commercial properties. Many business investors will evaluate their corporate balance sheets for business loans issued by creditors that could benefit from lower market rates or an improved credit profile.


   Types of Refinancing  

There are several types of refinancing options. The type of loan a borrower decides to get depends on the needs of the borrower. Some of these refinancing options include:


  Rate-and-Term Refinancing  

This is the most common type of refinancing. Rate-and-term refinancing occurs when the original loan is paid and replaced with a new loan agreement that requires lower interest payments.


  Cash-out Refinancing  

 Cash-outs are common when the underlying asset that collateralizes the loan has increased in value. The transaction involves withdrawing the value or equity in the asset in exchange for a higher loan amount (and often a higher interest rate).



In other words, when an asset increases in value on paper, you can gain access to that value with a loan rather than by selling it. This option increases the total loan amount but gives the borrower access to cash immediately while still maintaining ownership of the asset.


  Cash-in Refinancing  

A cash-in refinance allows the borrower to pay down some portion of the loan for a lower loan-to-value (LTV) ratio or smaller loan payments.


  Consolidation Refinancing  

In some cases, a consolidation loan may be an effective way to refinance. A consolidation refinancing can be used when an investor obtains a single loan at a rate that is lower than their current average interest rate across several credit products.



This type of refinancing requires the consumer or business to apply for a new loan at a lower rate and then pay off existing debt with the new loan, leaving their total outstanding principal with substantially lower interest rate payments.


   The Pros and Cons of Refinancing  



Pros

You can get a lower monthly mortgage payment and interest rate.
You can convert an adjustable interest rate to a fixed interest rate, gaining predictability and possible savings.
You can acquire an influx of cash for a pressing financial need.
You can set a shorter loan term, allowing you to save money on the total interest paid.



Cons

If your loan term is reset to its original length, your total interest payment over the life of the loan may outweigh what you save at the lower rate.
If interest rates drop, you won’t get the benefit with a fixed-rate mortgage unless you refinance again.
You may reduce the equity you hold in your home.
Your monthly payment increases with a shorter loan term, and you have to pay closing costs on the refinance.





   Example of Refinancing  

Here's a hypothetical example of how refinancing works. Let’s say Jane and John have a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage. The interest they’ve been paying since they first locked in their rate 10 years ago is 8%. Because of economic conditions, interest rates drop.



The couple reaches out to their bank and is able to refinance their existing mortgage at a new rate of 4%. This allows Jane and John to lock in a new rate for the next 20 years while lowering their regular monthly mortgage payment. If interest rates drop again in the future, they may be able to refinance again to further lower their payments.


   Corporate Refinancing  

Corporate refinancing is the process through which a company reorganizes its financial obligations by replacing or restructuring existing debts. Corporate refinancing is often done to improve a company's financial position and can also be done while a company is in distress with the help of debt restructuring. Corporate refinancing often involves calling in older issues of corporate bonds, whenever possible, and issuing new bonds at lower interest rates.




What Exactly Does Refinancing Do?
Refinancing your mortgage replaces your old mortgage with a new mortgage; one with a different principal amount and interest rate. The lender pays off the old mortgage with the new one and you are then left with just one mortgage; typically one with more favorable terms (lower interest rate) than your previous one.




Why Would You Refinance Your Home?
There are a few reasons why one would refinance their home. The primary reason is to obtain more favorable loan terms than before. This is usually seen in a lower interest rate on your mortgage, which makes your mortgage cheaper, resulting in lower monthly payments. Other reasons to refinance your home include changing the term on the mortgage or taking out a cash value from the home's equity to use for other purposes, such as paying off debts or renovating your home.




Does Refinancing Hurt Your Credit?
Refinancing will hurt your credit score as a credit check is done when you are refinancing your mortgage; however, this is temporary and your score will adjust over time. In addition, your overall credit may improve after refinancing, as you will have less debt and a lower monthly payment on your mortgage.


   The Bottom Line  

Refinancing allows for changes to a current credit agreement, typically replacing the original agreement with a new one. Refinancing is beneficial for borrowers as it results in more favorable borrowing terms. For homeowners, refinancing is a great way to lower the cost of their mortgages when interest rates fall, allowing them to obtain a lower interest rate than they currently have. Whenever rates drop, it's worth exploring refinancing.
What Is Reflexivity?  

Reflexivity in economics is the theory that a feedback loop exists in which investors' perceptions affect economic fundamentals, which in turn changes investor perception. The theory of reflexivity has its roots in sociology, but in the world of economics and finance, its primary proponent is George Soros. Soros believes that reflexivity disproves much of mainstream economic theory and should become a major focus of economic research, and even makes grandiose claims that it "gives rise to a new morality as well as a new epistemology."





Key Takeaways

Reflexivity is a theory that positive feedback loops between expectations and economic fundamentals can cause price trends that substantially and persistently deviate from equilibrium prices. Reflexivity’s primary proponent is George Soros, who credits it with much of his success as an investor.  Soros believes that reflexivity contradicts most of mainstream economic theory.


   Understanding Reflexivity  

Reflexivity theory states that investors don't base their decisions on reality, but rather on their perceptions of reality instead. The actions that result from these perceptions have an impact on reality, or fundamentals, which then affects investors' perceptions and thus prices. The process is self-reinforcing and tends toward disequilibrium, causing prices to become increasingly detached from reality. Soros views the global financial crisis as an illustration of the theory. In his view, rising home prices induced banks to increase their home mortgage lending and, in turn, increased lending helped drive up home prices. Without a check on rising prices, this resulted in a price bubble, which eventually collapsed, resulting in the financial crisis and Great Recession.



Soros’s theory of reflexivity runs counter to the concepts of economic equilibrium, rational expectations, and the efficient market hypothesis. In mainstream economic theory, equilibrium prices are implied by the real economic fundamentals that determine supply and demand. Changes in economic fundamentals, such as consumer preferences and real resource scarcity, will induce market participants to bid prices up or down based on their more or less rational expectations of what economic fundamentals imply about future prices. This process includes both positive and negative feedback between prices and expectations regarding economic fundamentals, which balance each other out at a new equilibrium price. In the absence of major obstacles to communicating information regarding economic fundamentals and engaging in transactions at mutually agreed prices, this price process will tend to keep the market moving quickly and efficiently toward equilibrium.



Soros believes that reflexivity challenges the idea of economic equilibrium because it means prices might deviate from the equilibrium values by a significant amount persistently over time. In Soros’s opinion, this is because the process of price formation is reflexive and dominated by positive feedback loops between prices and expectations. Once a change in economic fundamentals occurs, these positive feedback loops cause prices to under- or overshoot the new equilibrium. In some way, the normal negative feedback between prices and expectations regarding economic fundamentals, which would counterbalance these positive feedback loops, fails. Eventually, the trend reverses once market participants recognize that prices have become detached from reality and revise their expectations (though Soros does not recognize this as negative feedback).



As evidence for his theory, Soros points to the boom-bust cycle and various episodes of price bubbles followed by price crashes, when it is widely believed that prices deviate strongly from the equilibrium values implied by economic fundamentals. He often makes reference to the use of leverage and the availability of credit in initiating the process, and the role of floating currency exchange rates in these episodes.
What Is a Registered Education Savings Plan?  

A Registered Education Savings Plan (RESP), sponsored by the Canadian government, encourages investing in a child's future post-secondary education. Subscribers to an RESP make contributions that build up tax-free earnings. The government contributes a certain amount to these plans for children under age 18.



Contributors do not receive a tax deduction for investments in an RESP. There are no taxes due until funds are taken out to pay for a child’s education. At that time, contributions made into the RESP are returned tax-free, although contributors’ earnings from the plan are taxed. The money the government pays out is taxed to the students. However, since a large number of students have little to no income, many can withdraw the money tax-free.


   Understanding Registered Education Savings Plans (RESP)  

A Registered Education Savings Plan (RESP) lets parents in Canada begin saving for their children’s education at birth, with the government pitching in part of the tab. Parents or guardians simply walk into a bank, credit union or other financial institution to open up an account. Anyone can contribute, whether it's mom, dad, neighbor, or a favorite aunt or uncle.






The money given out by the Canadian government is taxed, but since so many students have little to no income, many can withdraw the money tax-free.



The government then matches the money up to a certain percentage and deposits it into the child’s RESP. The extra funds the government deposits are called the Canadian Education and Savings Grant. The amount provided is graduated, based on family income. Matching benefits apply only on the first $2,500 in contribution per year. The amount of the grant is capped at a maximum of $7,200.



Once in college, the child receives educational assistance payments (EAPs). These EAPs count as income for the child (beneficiary). If the beneficiary doesn't receive payments—either by the choice of the contributor or because the beneficiary does not attend a post-secondary institution—the contributor will receive the amount in the RESP back tax-free.





Key Takeaways

A Registered Education Savings Plan (RESP) is a college plan sponsored by the Canadian government.Subscribers to an RESP make contributions that build up tax-free earnings for paying for higher education.In addition to parental contributions, the government contributes a certain amount to these plans for children under age 18.The Canadian government caps the lifetime contribution limit of $50,000 per beneficiary from all RESPs combined.If a child doesn't pursue an approved post-secondary education training program within 36 years of opening the account, the government can request the grant money back.There are penalties and income tax incurred on investment earnings that are withdrawn from an RESP and not used for college or vocational school.



The number of allowed plans per child is unlimited. However, there is a lifetime contribution limit of $50,000 per beneficiary from all RESPs combined.


   Pros and Cons of Registered Education Savings Plans  

Generally, the plans are easy to access and provide strong investment incentives. Because parents won't initially pay taxes on the money, they have a dual incentive to save for their child's education; they avoid paying taxes and get bonus money from the government for the child's education in the process.



There are a few catches. If a child doesn't pursue an approved post-secondary education training program, such as college or trade school, within 36 years of opening the account, the government can request the grant money back Also, any investment earnings that are withdrawn from the RESP that are not used for education-related expenses incur income tax plus an additional 20% penalty.
What Is a Registered Investment Advisor (RIA)?  

A registered investment advisor (RIA) is a financial firm that advises clients on securities investments and may manage their investment portfolios. RIAs are registered with either the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or state securities administrators.



RIAs and the people who work from them have fiduciary obligations to their clients, meaning that they have a fundamental duty to always and only provide investment advice that is in their client’s best interests.





Key Takeaways

Registered investment advisors (RIAs) are financial firms which manage the assets of individual and institutional investors.RIAs must register with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or a state regulatory agency, depending on the value of assets under the RIA’s management.RIAs typically earn their income through management fees, calculated as a percentage of a client’s assets under management (AUM) by the RIA.Unlike broker-dealers, RIAs have a fiduciary duty to put the best interests of the client first.Investment advisor representatives (IARs) are the financial professionals who work for RIAs.


   Understanding Registered Investment Advisors (RIAs)  

The rules on investment advisors were formulated by the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. This law requires individuals or businesses that dispense professional investment advice to register with the SEC, although there are exemptions for smaller firms.



Investment advisors are permitted, although not required, to register with the SEC if they manage a minimum of $25 million in assets. However, it becomes mandatory for those firms that manage $100 million or more, as RIAs managing at least that amount are required quarterly to disclose their holdings to the SEC. Investment advisors who manage smaller sums of investment money typically are required to register with state securities authorities.





RIA vs. IAR

Note that there is a difference between a registered investment advisor (RIA) and an investment advisor representative (IAR). An RIA is a company that offers financial guidance to clients. The IAR is the person who gives the financial advice. The RIA can have many employees, including several IARs, or it can be just one person who is both the RIA and the IAR. The IAR thus works for the RIA and provides the actual financial services to the clients.


   Registering as an RIA  

Registering as an RIA does not imply any recommendation or endorsement by the SEC or any other regulator. It means only that the investment advisor has fulfilled all of that agency’s requirements for registration. Registering with the SEC requires disclosing information that includes:



Investment style of the advisor
Assets under management (AUM)
Their fee structure
Any disciplinary actions that were taken against the advisor
Any current or potential conflicts of interest
Key officers, if the RIA is a company



RIAs must annually update their information on file with the SEC, and the information must be made available to the public.


   Services of an RIA  

RIAs provide more services than just investment advice. Their services and advice may cover the following subjects:



Financial planningRetirement planningEstate planningWealth managementInvestment managementBudgetingDebt repaymentInsurance 


   Requirements of RIAs  

RIAs must follow certain practices and procedures when furnishing advice to their clients. These include:



SEC registration: RIAs with more than a certain level of AUM are required to register with the SEC, as well as a state governing body depending on the location and the number of clients.
Disclosure: RIAs are required to disclose any risks or possible conflicts of interest pertaining to the specific transactions that they recommend to their clients. RIAs must also ensure that the client understands any risks.
Assumption of burden of proof: RIAs, if confronted by a client about the suitability of an investment, bear the burden of proof—meaning that the RIA must prove that the risk was disclosed and that the investment could be considered suitable.
Fiduciary duty: RIAs are required to act as fiduciaries, meaning that they must act in the best interests of clients and avoid any conflict of interest concerning products and services offered to them.
FINRA compliance: RIAs are required to meet certain compliance requirements with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). Besides providing online applications for registering RIAs, the FINRA requires Form ADV to be filed.
Documentation: RIAs are required to keep extensive documentation in compliance with SEC record-keeping regulations.


   RIAs vs. Broker-Dealers  

RIAs differ from broker-dealers in important ways. RIAs provide advice on all matters related to finance, including investments, taxation, and estate planning. Broker-dealers tend to focus more narrowly on facilitating purchases and sales of assets like stocks.



Most importantly, in interactions with clients, RIAs are expected to act in a fiduciary capacity, while broker-dealers are only required to satisfy the standard of suitability. Clients of RIAs can be assured that their advisors always and unconditionally put their best interests first. Clients of broker-dealers need to be aware that the broker-dealer is permitted to dispense advice that is merely “suitable” for their client’s investment portfolios.






Unlike RIAs, broker-dealers are not required to disclose potential conflicts of interest or make their clients aware of less expensive or more tax-efficient investment alternatives.


   How RIAs Make Money  

The following are some common fee structures for investment advisory firms:



Management fees: An RIA can collect a management fee annually as a percentage of the RIA’s AUM. Management fees can align incentives, as an RIA who can raise the value of a client’s portfolio can collect a higher management fee.
Performance-based fees: An RIA can assess a fee based strictly on the performance of a portfolio. Not all clients are eligible for this type of fee structure, though—in general, only those with at least $1.1 million in assets managed by the RIA or $2.2 million in net worth can qualify.
Asset-class-based fees: Some RIAs who charge management fees vary the percentage rates based on asset class. An RIA might charge a management fee of 1.5% for equities like stocks and a 0.75% management fee for fixed-income investments such as bonds.
Hourly or flat fees: RIAs are increasingly providing fee-based services that are not contingent upon how much money the client has to invest. Investors can work with RIAs who charge fees on an hourly basis or at a flat rate, with some RIAs offering subscription-based services.






Many RIAs collect fees based on how much investment money they manage. But other fee structures are emerging that may be better suited for smaller investors.


   How to Choose an RIA  

Always do some careful research before selecting an investment advisor. You need a firm that is aligned with your interests and needs. An excellent source and starting point is the SEC’s Investment Adviser Public Disclosure website, which allows you to search for every RIA in the country.



Note that when you are choosing an RIA, you are choosing the financial firm that you will be working with, and not necessarily an individual advisor. Investment advisor representatives (or IARs) are the individuals who work for the RIA and directly provide advice to clients. It's quite possible that an RIA have just a single advisor, or else have several IARs, each with their own unique areas of expertise and approach to investing.



Therefore, when you're selecting an RIA, you're not just choosing a firm but also potentially choosing among the individual IARs within that firm. Make sure to understand both the philosophy and standards of the RIA and the specific skills and qualifications of the IAR who may be handling your portfolio.


   What Else to Check  

Once you select those firms that fit your location requirements, you can review each firm’s website and social media. Also:



Check the type of services that they provide. The type and level of advice that RIAs provide can vary widely from firm to firm, so make sure the areas on which they focus fit your needs.
Check their Form ADV. RIA firms are required to file Form ADV, which is the uniform form used by investment advisors to register with both the SEC and state securities authorities. The form, which should be offered to you by the firm in which you are interested, provides detailed information about the firm, from fees and client types to assets under management and more.
Check out their IARs. In addition to the RIA firm, check out the investment advisor representatives (IAR) employed at the firm using FINRA's free BrokerCheck tool. This tool allows you to see the IAR’s registration status, employment history, disciplinary actions, and customer complaints. You can also compare different IARs and find out their qualifications, certifications, and areas of expertise. By using this tool, you can make an informed decision about who will manage your investments and how they will do it.
Check the assets under management (AUM). Search the total AUM of the firm in which you are interested by using the SEC’s Investment Adviser Public Disclosure website, and compare them with yours to see if your assets are on the low or high side for the firm.




RIA or IAR: What is the Difference?
An RIA is a firm that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or a state's securities agency. The firm gives advice about securities and engages in other related activities. As a fiduciary, an RIA has a fundamental obligation to provide investment advice that always acts in their clients' best interests.An IAR, on the other hand, is an individual who works for an RIA. They are the actual persons who interact with clients and provide the advice. An IAR must pass certain qualifications to be associated with an RIA and must adhere to the same fiduciary standards.In other words, the RIA is the entity (or firm), while the IARs are the individuals working under that entity. The RIA firm as a whole has a fiduciary duty to their clients, and each individual IAR also has that duty. When a client hires an RIA, they will typically interact with an IAR who will be their personal advisor.




How do you register as an RIA?
A firm can register as an RIA by filing Form ADV with the SEC. Within 45 days of the filing, the SEC must either grant registration or begin proceedings to deny it. In addition, RIAs are also required to abide by the “brochure rule,” which requires them to inform clients with information about their practice, educational, and business backgrounds. RIAs must also maintain accurate books and records, subject to examination by the SEC.




Which regulatory agency do RIAs register with?
RIAs may register with the SEC if they manage at least $25 million in assets, and are required to do so if they manage more than $100 million. Investment advisors managing smaller amounts of money are typically required to register with state-level agencies.




What fees do RIAs charge?
RIAs can charge fees in several ways. The most common type of fee is the annual management fee, which is based on the value of a client’s assets under management (AUM) with the RIA. RIAs can also charge fees based on performance, asset class, or hours worked.


   The Bottom Line  

You don’t need an RIA to invest money. Nonetheless, demand for RIAs is growing, with the assets managed by U.S. RIAs increasing annually by 12% from 2016 through 2021. The consulting firm McKinsey & Co. finds that younger clients are preferring to consolidate where they receive their financial services.



If you decide to work with an RIA, that advisor doesn’t even need to be human. You have a choice of robo-advisors—automated software tools that dispense investment advice based on information about yourself and investment preferences that you provide. The availability of this technology has further lowered the price of working with an RIA.
What Is a Registered Representative (RR)  

A registered representative (RR) is a person who works for a client-facing financial firm such as a brokerage company and serves as a representative for clients who are trading investment products and securities. Registered representatives may be employed as brokers, financial advisors, or portfolio managers.



Registered representatives must pass licensing tests and are regulated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). RRs must furthermore adhere to the suitability standard. An investment must meet the suitability requirements outlined in FINRA Rule 2111 prior to being recommended by a firm to an investor. The following question must be answered affirmatively: "Is this investment appropriate for my client?"





Key Takeaways

A registered representative (RR) is a financial professional who is able to deal with client transactions in the securities markets.RRs must pass strict licensing requirements, including the Series 7 & 63 exams, and must follow rules set out by FINRA and the SEC.RRs must also uphold the suitability standard, and there is ongoing discussion among regulators about changing this to the stricter fiduciary standard.


   Understanding Registered Representatives (RRs)  

Registered representatives can buy and sell securities for clients. They are primarily known as transaction-based service providers. To carry out these transactions a registered representative must be licensed to sell the designated securities. They must also be sponsored by a firm registered with FINRA.



To become licensed as a registered representative for a sponsoring firm, a person must pass the Series 7 and Series 63 securities examinations. These exams are administered by FINRA. The Series 7 license allows the registered representative to buy and sell stocks, mutual funds, options, municipal securities ('munis'), and certain variable contracts (e.g. insurance or annuity products) for their clients. Since October 2018, Series 7 candidates are required to pass the Securities Industry Essentials (SIE) Exam as well as the Series 7 in order to be registered as a General Securities Representative.



The Series 63 license allows the representative to trade variable annuities and unit investment trusts. A substantial portion of the Series 63 exam is focused on state securities requirements across the U.S. Other licenses may also apply for various other types of transactions. RRs may also obtain the Series 65 and/or Series 66 licenses in order to expand their set of allowable activities.





Series 7

The purpose of the Series 7 license is to establish a standard level of competency and ethics for registered representatives in the securities industry.


   Standards for Registered Representatives  

Investors seek registered representatives to carry out financial market transactions on their behalf as brokers (or "agents"). Registered representatives typically have access to a full range of market trading capabilities that fit the needs of their investors. They may also be able to execute thinly traded securities or have access to new securities launches.


  RRs vs. RIAs  

Registered representatives differ from registered investment advisors (RIAs). Registered representatives are governed by suitability standards while registered investment advisors are governed by fiduciary standards. Registered representatives are transaction-based service providers. U.S. regulators require that registered representatives ensure an investment is suitable for an investor given their investment profile. They also ensure that trades are executed efficiently. Investors will incur sales charges determined by securities issuers when dealing with a registered representative.



Registered investment advisors seek to offer more holistic financial plans and investing services. They offer very different fee schedules and are typically fee-based by assets under management. Registered investment advisors are regulated by fiduciary standards which go beyond standard suitability. RIAs develop comprehensive financial plans and must ensure the best interest of the client.



RIAs are considered to be acting in a fiduciary capacity, and so held to a higher standard of conduct than registered representatives. This fiduciary standard mandates that an RIA must always unconditionally put the client’s best interests ahead of their own, regardless of all other circumstances.


   Identifying a Registered Representative  

Investors seeking the services of a registered representative will find a range of options in the investment market. Companies like Charles Schwab offer discounts and full-service brokerage services. With Charles Schwab, for instance, an investor can place electronic trades at a discounted cost. The discount brokerage service offers a registered representative call center where a client can speak with a broker to execute trades. Charles Schwab also offers full-service brokers who work as account executives for clients and support a broad range of trading activities.



FINRA also offers a service called BrokerCheck. Through BrokerCheck an investor can research the experience and disciplinary record of brokers and brokerage firms.


   Past Activities That Can Disqualify You  

There are several events that could either prevent a person from becoming a registered representative, or that would result in the loss of membership or registration.



According to FINRA, you could be subject to a "statutory disqualification" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 if you:



Were convicted, or pled guilty or no contest to any felony.
Were charged or convicted with a misdemeanor involving investments and related to fraud, extortion, bribery, or other unethical activities.
Were involved in arbitration or civil litigation in which you were found to violate sales practices.
Received a final order, from a state securities commission, state authority, federal banking agency, etc., that barred you from an association to that authority or from engaging in securities, insurance, banking, and other financial services.
Participated in fraudulent, manipulative, or deceptive conduct that violated any applicable laws or regulations.
Had a registration revoked or suspended from an accountant, attorney, or federal contractor role.
Filed for bankruptcy within the last 10 years.
Made a false statement or omitted material information.



Note that the preceding items are a brief summary of the disclosure questions included on FINRA Form U-4. FINRA also provides a detailed summary of the statutory disqualification process.




How Do You Become a Registered Representative?
In order to become a registered representative, you must be sponsored by a FINRA-registered brokerage firm and also be licensed to sell securities. In order to gain the General Securities License, you must pass the SIE exam and the FINRA Series 7 exam.




How Much Money Does a Registered Representative Make?
The average salary of a registered representative in the United States is $86,000 per year, according to ZipRecruiter. However, salaries vary widely by geography, and in major financial hubs like New York the average is in the six-figure range.




Which Securities Can a Registered Representative Sell?
A General Securities Representative can sell a broad range of securities, such as corporate and municipal securities, investment company securities, variable annuities, and government bonds. There are other FINRA exams that will allow someone to only sell one type of security, such as municipal bonds.



Correction—Sep. 10, 2022: A previous version of this article misstated the requirements for the Series 7 exam.
What Is a Regression?  

Regression is a statistical method used in finance, investing, and other disciplines that attempts to determine the strength and character of the relationship between one dependent variable (usually denoted by Y) and a series of other variables (known as independent variables).



Also called simple regression or ordinary least squares (OLS), linear regression is the most common form of this technique. Linear regression establishes the linear relationship between two variables based on a line of best fit. Linear regression is thus graphically depicted using a straight line with the slope defining how the change in one variable impacts a change in the other. The y-intercept of a linear regression relationship represents the value of one variable when the value of the other is zero. Non-linear regression models also exist, but are far more complex.



Regression analysis is a powerful tool for uncovering the associations between variables observed in data, but cannot easily indicate causation. It is used in several contexts in business, finance, and economics. For instance, it is used to help investment managers value assets and understand the relationships between factors such as commodity prices and the stocks of businesses dealing in those commodities.



Regression as a statistical technique should not be confused with the concept of regression to the mean (mean reversion).





Key Takeaways

A regression is a statistical technique that relates a dependent variable to one or more independent (explanatory) variables.A regression model is able to show whether changes observed in the dependent variable are associated with changes in one or more of the explanatory variables.It does this by essentially fitting a best-fit line and seeing how the data is dispersed around this line.Regression helps economists and financial analysts in things ranging from asset valuation to making predictions.In order for regression results to be properly interpreted, several assumptions about the data and the model itself must hold.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Regression  

Regression captures the correlation between variables observed in a data set and quantifies whether those correlations are statistically significant or not.



The two basic types of regression are simple linear regression and multiple linear regression, although there are non-linear regression methods for more complicated data and analysis. Simple linear regression uses one independent variable to explain or predict the outcome of the dependent variable Y, while multiple linear regression uses two or more independent variables to predict the outcome (while holding all others constant).



Regression can help finance and investment professionals as well as professionals in other businesses. Regression can also help predict sales for a company based on weather, previous sales, GDP growth, or other types of conditions. The capital asset pricing model (CAPM) is an often-used regression model in finance for pricing assets and discovering the costs of capital.


  Regression and Econometrics  

Econometrics is a set of statistical techniques used to analyze data in finance and economics. An example of the application of econometrics is to study the income effect using observable data. An economist may, for example, hypothesize that as a person increases their income their spending will also increase.



If the data show that such an association is present, a regression analysis can then be conducted to understand the strength of the relationship between income and consumption and whether or not that relationship is statistically significant—that is, it appears to be unlikely that it is due to chance alone.



Note that you can have several explanatory variables in your analysis—for example, changes to GDP and inflation in addition to unemployment in explaining stock market prices. When more than one explanatory variable is used, it is referred to as multiple linear regression. This is the most commonly used tool in econometrics.



Econometrics is sometimes criticized for relying too heavily on the interpretation of regression output without linking it to economic theory or looking for causal mechanisms. It is crucial that the findings revealed in the data are able to be adequately explained by a theory, even if that means developing your own theory of the underlying processes.


   Calculating Regression  

Linear regression models often use a least-squares approach to determine the line of best fit. The least-squares technique is determined by minimizing the sum of squares created by a mathematical function. A square is, in turn, determined by squaring the distance between a data point and the regression line or mean value of the data set.



Once this process has been completed (usually done today with software), a regression model is constructed. The general form of each type of regression model is:



Simple linear regression:


















Y


=


a


+


b


X


+


u







\begin{aligned}&Y = a + bX + u \\\end{aligned}


​Y=a+bX+u​



Multiple linear regression:


















Y


=


a


+



b


1




X


1



+



b


2




X


2



+



b


3




X


3



+


.


.


.


+



b


t




X


t



+


u
















where:
















Y


=


The dependent variable you are trying to predict
















or explain
















X


=


The explanatory (independent) variable(s) you are 
















using to predict or associate with Y
















a


=


The y-intercept
















b


=


(beta coefficient) is the slope of the explanatory
















variable(s)
















u


=


The regression residual or error term







\begin{aligned}&Y = a + b_1X_1 + b_2X_2 + b_3X_3 + ... + b_tX_t + u \\&\textbf{where:} \\&Y = \text{The dependent variable you are trying to predict} \\&\text{or explain} \\&X = \text{The explanatory (independent) variable(s) you are } \\&\text{using to predict or associate with Y} \\&a = \text{The y-intercept} \\&b = \text{(beta coefficient) is the slope of the explanatory} \\&\text{variable(s)} \\&u = \text{The regression residual or error term} \\\end{aligned}


​Y=a+b1​X1​+b2​X2​+b3​X3​+...+bt​Xt​+uwhere:Y=The dependent variable you are trying to predictor explainX=The explanatory (independent) variable(s) you are using to predict or associate with Ya=The y-interceptb=(beta coefficient) is the slope of the explanatoryvariable(s)u=The regression residual or error term​


   Example of How Regression Analysis Is Used in Finance  

Regression is often used to determine how many specific factors such as the price of a commodity, interest rates, particular industries, or sectors influence the price movement of an asset. The aforementioned CAPM is based on regression, and it is utilized to project the expected returns for stocks and to generate costs of capital. A stock's returns are regressed against the returns of a broader index, such as the S&P 500, to generate a beta for the particular stock.



Beta is the stock's risk in relation to the market or index and is reflected as the slope in the CAPM model. The return for the stock in question would be the dependent variable Y, while the independent variable X would be the market risk premium.



Additional variables such as the market capitalization of a stock, valuation ratios, and recent returns can be added to the CAPM model to get better estimates for returns. These additional factors are known as the Fama-French factors, named after the professors who developed the multiple linear regression model to better explain asset returns.




Why Is It Called Regression?
Although there is some debate about the origins of the name, the statistical technique described above most likely was termed "regression" by Sir Francis Galton in the 19th century to describe the statistical feature of biological data (such as heights of people in a population) to regress to some mean level. In other words, while there are shorter and taller people, only outliers are very tall or short, and most people cluster somewhere around (or "regress" to) the average.




What Is the Purpose of Regression?
In statistical analysis, regression is used to identify the associations between variables occurring in some data. It can show both the magnitude of such an association and also determine its statistical significance (i.e., whether or not the association is likely due to chance). Regression is a powerful tool for statistical inference and has also been used to try to predict future outcomes based on past observations.




How Do You Interpret a Regression Model?
A regression model output may be in the form of Y = 1.0 + (3.2)X1 - 2.0(X2) + 0.21.Here we have a multiple linear regression that relates some variable Y with two explanatory variables X1 and X2. We would interpret the model as the value of Y changes by 3.2x for every one-unit change in X1 (if X1 goes up by 2, Y goes up by 6.4, etc.) holding all else constant (all else equal). That means controlling for X2, X1 has this observed relationship. Likewise, holding X1 constant, every one unit increase in X2 is associated with a 2x decrease in Y. We can also note the y-intercept of 1.0, meaning that Y = 1 when X1 and X2 are both zero. The error term (residual) is 0.21.




What Are the Assumptions That Must Hold for Regression Models?
In order to properly interpret the output of a regression model, the following main assumptions about the underlying data process of what you analyzing must hold:The relationship between variables is linearHomoskedasticity, or that the variance of the variables and error term must remain constantAll explanatory variables are independent of one anotherAll variables are normally-distributed
What Is a Regressive Tax?  

The term regressive tax refers to a tax that is applied uniformly regardless of income. Regressive taxes take a larger percentage of income from low-income earners than from middle- and high-income earners. As such, the tax burden decreases with regressive taxes as income rises. It is contrasted with a progressive tax, which takes a larger percentage from high-income earners. Common forms of regressive include sales tax, gas tax, and payroll tax.





Key Takeaways

A regressive tax is a type of tax that is assessed regardless of income, in which low- and high-income earners pay the same dollar amount.This kind of tax is a bigger burden on low-income earners than high-income earners, for whom the same dollar amount equates to a much larger percentage of total income earned.A regressive system differs from a progressive system, in which higher earners pay a higher percentage of income tax than lower earners.A regressive system also differs from a proportional system where each individual pays the same percentage of their income. In the U.S. and certain other developed nations, a progressive tax is applied to income, but other taxes are levied uniformly, such as sales tax and user fees.


   Understanding Regressive Taxes  

Taxes are contributions made by individuals and corporations by governments. They come in many different forms and are levied at different levels, including federal, state/provincial, regional, and local. The types of taxes vary but tend to fall into three distinct categories, including progressive, proportional, and regressive taxes.



As noted above, regressive taxes affect people with low incomes more severely than those with higher incomes because they are applied uniformly to all situations, regardless of the taxpayer. While it may be fair in some instances to tax everyone at the same rate, it is seen as unjust in other cases. As such, most income tax systems employ a progressive schedule that taxes high-income earners at a higher percentage rate than low-income earners, while other types of taxes are uniformly applied.



The United States has a progressive taxation system when it comes to income tax, which means that earners with higher incomes pay a higher percentage of taxes each year compared to those with a lower income. But taxpayers do pay certain levies that are considered to be regressive taxes. Some of these include state sales taxes, user fees, and to some degree, property taxes.






A regressive tax system is more common in less developed countries, where there may be a greater number of people in the same income bracket, thus reducing the negative impact of the regressive tax.


   Types of Regressive Taxes  

Taxes come in various shapes and sizes. The following section contains information on some of the most common types of regressive taxes that taxpayers must pay.


  Sales Taxes  

Governments apply sales tax uniformly to all consumers based on what they buy. Even though the tax may be uniform, such as a 7% sales tax, lower-income consumers are more affected.



Imagine two individuals each purchase $100 of clothing per week, and they each pay $7 in tax on their retail purchases:



The first individual earns $2,000 per week, making the sales tax rate on her purchase 0.35% of income.
In contrast, the other individual earns $320 per week, making her clothing sales tax 2.2%.



Although the tax is the same rate in both cases, the person with the lower income pays a higher percentage of income, making the tax regressive.


  Excise Taxes  

Excise taxes are levied on specific goods such as tobacco, alcohol, gasoline, and luxury items. These taxes are often added to the price of the goods and are paid by the consumer at the point of sale.



An excise tax can be regressive if it is the same for everyone regardless of income. This is especially true for products consumed by low-income individuals, as these earners are likely to spend a larger proportion of their income on taxed goods than high-income earners. For example, excise taxes on cheap beer is regressive, especially considering how consumer demands may play a factor.



It's important to keep in mind that excise taxes can also be designed to be progressive. For example, if the tax rate on luxury items is higher than the tax rate on necessities like food or clothing, the tax would have a greater impact on high-income earners who are more likely to purchase luxury items. In this case, the tax is progressive because the low-income individual would likely never purchase the luxury good.


  Tariffs  

Much of the same regarding excise taxes can be said about tariffs. If tariffs are applied uniformly on all imported goods regardless of their price or the income of the people who buy them, they can be considered regressive taxes.



Lower-income individuals tend to spend a larger proportion of their income on imported goods than households with higher incomes. Like before, this may depend on consumer preferences and may be progressive for tariffs placed on more luxurious goods.


  User Fees  

User fees levied by the government are another form of regressive tax. These fees include admission to government-funded museums and state parks, costs for driver's licenses and identification cards, and toll fees for roads and bridges.



For example, if two families travel to the Grand Canyon National Park and pay a $30 admission fee, the family with the higher income pays a lower percentage of its income to access the park, while the family with the lower income pays a higher percentage. Although the fee is the same amount, it constitutes a more significant burden on the family with the lower income, again making it a regressive tax.


  Property Taxes  

Property taxes are fundamentally regressive because, if two individuals in the same tax jurisdiction live in properties with the same values, they pay the same amount of property tax, regardless of their incomes.



But they are not purely regressive in practice because they are based on the value of the property. Generally, it is thought that lower-income earners live in less expensive homes, thus partially indexing property taxes to income.


  Flat Taxes  

Often tossed around in debates about income tax, the phrase flat tax refers to a taxation system in which the government taxes all income at the same percentage regardless of earnings. Under a flat tax, there are no special deductions or credits. Rather, each person pays a set percentage that is levied on all income so everyone effectively pays the same rate.



The tax burden on those with low incomes is often heavily compared to those with higher incomes—even at the same rate. This means that the proportion of income that is taxed is higher for low-income earners. As a result, flat taxes may be considered to be regressive.


  Payroll Taxes  

Payroll taxes may be considered regressive, as they are typically levied as a flat tax rate on wages and salaries up to a certain limit. This means that everyone, regardless of their income level, pays the same percentage of their income in payroll taxes.



In the United States, Social Security taxes are levied at a flat rate of 6.2% on wages and salaries up to $160,200 in 2023.This means that someone who earns $50,000 a year pays the same percentage of their income in payroll taxes as someone who earns $100,000 a year.


  Sin Taxes  

Taxes imposed and collected on products that are deemed to be harmful to society are called sin taxes. These are added to the prices of goods like alcohol and tobacco in order to dissuade people from using them. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers these taxes to be regressive because they are more burdensome to low-income earners rather than their high-income counterparts.






Corporate taxes are theoretically regressive in that companies may be able to reduce their tax liability down to $0. If this is the case, some of the highest-earning companies may be able to avoid all federal taxes.


   Regressive vs. Progressive vs. Proportional Taxes  

Regressive, progressive, and proportional taxes are different types of tax systems that are used by governments to generate revenue. Each type of tax has a difference in how they are calculated and the people it affects (primarily depending on different income levels).


  Progressive Tax  

A regressive tax system is one in which the tax rate decreases as the taxpayer's income increases. A progressive tax system, on the other hand, is one in which the tax rate increases as the taxpayer's income increases.



In a progressive tax system, people with higher incomes pay a higher percentage of their income in taxes than those with lower incomes. Examples of progressive taxes include income taxes and estate taxes.



The argument against progressive taxes is that individuals shouldn't be penalized for having higher incomes and pay for public benefits that a less wealthy individual may be more likely to utilize. This system may also disincentive innovation and capitalism as there is less motivation for success.



The argument for progressive taxes is that individuals with lower incomes should not pay higher effective rates simply because they do not have the same income as somebody else.


  Proportional Tax  

These two contrasting tax systems meet in the middle with a proportional tax system. This tax is one where everyone pays the same amount in proportion to their income, regardless of how much someone makes.



Though individuals with higher incomes will pay higher proportional taxes in terms of dollars, every individual will pay the same percentage of their income. Some may argue this is a lose-lose situation, higher taxes are not collected from the wealthy nor are higher taxes collected from lower-income individuals who may utilize more public services.




Does America Have a Regressive Tax System?
Certain aspects of taxes in the United States relate to a regressive tax system. Sales taxes, property taxes, and excises taxes on select goods are often regressive in the United States. However, there are other forms of taxes (see below) that are prevalent within America today.




What Taxes Are Not Considered Regressive?
Income taxes and estate taxes are among the most common types of progressive (non-regressive) types of taxes. Both have higher rates and higher tax liabilities for those with higher income. Be mindful that there are many ways individuals can reduce their tax liability. Therefore, although a higher earned may be in a higher tax bracket, they may also have ways to reduce their liability and pay less taxes (both dollar-wise and percent-wise) in a progressive system compared to a lower earner.




Is a Flat Tax the Same As a Regressive Tax?
Yes, a flat tax is the same as a regressive tax because the proportion of taxes paid per individual decrease as an individual's income increases. Note that a proportional tax has a flat tax rate, not flat tax dollar amount. A proportional tax (with its fixed rate) is not a regressive tax.




Are Regressive Taxes Legal?
Yes, tax structures where higher earners pay less proportional taxes is legal. There is often fierce debate around the responsibility of the wealthy regarding how much tax they should pay. However, the subject is a matter of opinion as there is no legislation limiting or preventing a regressive tax system for certain types of taxes.


   The Bottom Line  

Regressive taxes represent a tax structure where a higher burden is placed on low-income individuals. This is because a larger proportion of their income must go towards paying the tax. A regressive tax system is opposite of a progressive tax system where the wealthier are tax more, though the middle-ground tax system is called a proportional tax system. Common forms of a regressive tax system are sales taxes or excise taxes on certain goods.
What Is Regret Theory?  

Regret theory states that people anticipate regret if they make the wrong choice, and they consider this anticipation when making decisions. Fear of regret can play a significant role in dissuading someone from taking action or motivating a person to take action. Regret theory can impact an investor's rational behavior, impairing their ability to make investment decisions that would benefit them as opposed to harming them.





Key Takeaways

Regret theory refers to human behavior regarding the fear of regret, which stems from people anticipating regret if they make the wrong choice.This fear can affect a person's rational behavior, impairing their ability to make decisions that would benefit them as opposed to those that would harm them.Regret theory impacts investors because it can either cause them to be unnecessarily risk-averse or it can motivate them to take risks they shouldn't take.During extended bull markets, regret theory causes some investors to continue to invest heavily, ignoring signs of an impending crash.By automating the investment process, investors can reduce their fear of regret from making incorrect investment decisions.


   Understanding Regret Theory  

When investing, regret theory can either make investors risk-averse, or it can motivate them to take higher risks. For example, suppose that an investor buys stock in a small growth company based only on a friend's recommendation. After six months, the stock falls to 50% of the purchase price, so the investor sells the stock and realizes a loss. To avoid this regret in the future, the investor could ask questions and research any stocks that the friend recommends. Or, the investor could decide to never take seriously any investment recommendation made by this friend, regardless of the investment fundamentals.



Conversely, suppose the investor didn't take the friend's recommendation to buy the stock, and the price increased by 50%. To avoid the regret of missing out, the investor could become less risk-averse and might likely buy any stocks that this friend recommends in the future without conducting any background research.


   Regret Theory and Psychology  

Investors can minimize the anticipation of regret influencing their investment decisions if they have an understanding and an awareness of the psychology of regret theory. Investors need to look at how regret has affected their investment decisions in the past and take that into account when considering a new opportunity.



For example, an investor may have missed a large trending move and has subsequently only traded momentum stocks to try to catch the next significant move. The investor should realize that he tends to regret missed opportunities and consider that before deciding to invest in the next trending stock.


   Regret Theory and Market Crashes  

In investing, regret theory and the fear of missing out (often abbreviated as "FOMO") frequently go hand in hand. This is particularly evident during times of extended bull markets when the prices of financial securities rise and investor optimism remains high. The fear of missing out on an opportunity to earn profits can drive even the most conservative and risk-averse investor to ignore warning signs of an impending crash.



Irrational exuberance—a phrase famously used by former Federal Reserve Chair Alan Greenspan—refers to this excessive investor enthusiasm that pushes asset prices higher than can be justified by the asset's underlying fundamentals. This unwarranted economic optimism can lead to a self-perpetuating pattern of investment behavior.



Investors begin to believe that the recent rise in prices predicts the future and they continue to invest heavily. Asset bubbles form, which ultimately burst, leading to panic selling. This scenario can be followed by a severe economic downturn or recession. Examples of this include the stock market crash of 1929, the stock market crash of 1987, the dotcom crash of 2001, and the financial crisis of 2007-08.


   Regret Theory and the Investment Process  

Investors can reduce their fear of regret from making incorrect investment decisions by automating the investment process. A strategy like formula investing, which strictly follows prescribed rules for making investments, removes most of the decision-making process about what to buy, when to buy, and how much to buy.



Investors can automate their trading strategies and use algorithms for execution and trade management. Using rules-based trading strategies reduces the chance of an investor making a discretionary decision based on a previous investment outcome. Investors can also backtest automated trading strategies, which could alert them to personal bias errors when they were designing their investment rules. Robo-advisors have gained in popularity among some investors as they offer access to automated investing combined with a low-cost alternative to traditional advisors.
What Is RegTech?  

Regtech is the management of regulatory processes within the financial industry through technology. The main functions of regtech include regulatory monitoring, reporting, and compliance.





Key Takeaways

RegTech is the management of regulatory processes within the financial industry. The main functions of regtech include regulatory monitoring, reporting, and compliance.It consists of a group of companies that help businesses comply with regulations efficiently and less expensively.


   Understanding RegTech  

Regtech is a community of tech companies that solve challenges arising from a technology-driven economy through automation. The rise in digital products has increased data breaches, cyber hacks, money laundering, and other fraudulent activities.



With the use of big data and machine-learning technology, regtech reduces the risk to a company’s compliance department by offering data on money laundering activities conducted online—activities that a traditional compliance team may not be privy to due to the increase of underground marketplaces online.



Regtech tools seek to monitor transactions that take place online in real-time to identify issues or irregularities in the digital payment sphere. Any outlier is relayed to the financial institution to analyze and determine if fraudulent activity is taking place. Institutions that identify potential threats to financial security early on are able to minimize the risks and costs associated with lost funds and data breaches.



Regtech, or RegTech, consists of a group of companies that use cloud computing technology through software-as-a-service (SaaS) to help businesses comply with regulations efficiently and less expensively. Regtech is also known as regulatory technology.



Regtech companies collaborate with financial institutions and regulatory bodies, using cloud computing and big data to share information. Cloud computing is a low-cost technology wherein users can share data quickly and securely with other entities.



A bank that receives huge amounts of data may find it too complex, expensive, and time-consuming to comb through. A regtech firm can combine complex information from a bank with data from previous regulatory failures to predict potential risk areas that the bank should focus on. By creating the analytics tools needed for these banks to successfully comply with the regulatory body, the regtech firm saves the bank time and money. The bank also has an effective tool to comply with rules set out by financial authorities.






Financial institutions and regulators both use Regtech to deal with complicated compliance processes.


  History of RegTech  

Following the 2008 financial crisis ushered in an increase in financial sector regulation. There was also a rise in the disruptive use of technology within the financial sector. Technology breakthroughs led to an increase in the number of fintech companies that create technology-driven products to enhance the customer experience and engagement with financial institutions.



The reliance on consumer data to produce digital products has led to concerns among regulatory bodies calling for more laws on data privacy usage and distribution. The coupling of more regulatory measures and laws with a sector more reliant on technology brought about the need for regulatory technology.



As of mid-2018, deregulation in the United States—as seen in the unwinding of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) rules—has led to a slowdown in regtech company financing deals, though the compliance burden should still fuel the drive toward greater automation.


   Characteristics of RegTech  

Some of the important characteristics of regtech include agility, speed, integration, and analytics.



Regtech can quickly separate and organize cluttered and intertwined data sets through extract and transfer load technologies. Regtech can also be used to generate reports quickly. It can also be used for integration purposes to get solutions running in a short amount of time. Finally, regtech uses analytic tools to mine big data sets and use them for different purposes.


  RegTech Applications  

Regtech operates in various spheres of the financial and regulatory space. A number of projects that regtech automates include employee surveillance, compliance data management, fraud prevention, and audit trail capabilities.



A regtech business can’t just collaborate with any financial institution or regulatory authority as it may have different goals and strategies that differ from the other parties. For example, a regtech that seeks to identify credit card fraud in the digital payments ecosystem may not develop a relationship with an investment firm concerned with its employees’ activities online or the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) whose current issue may be an increase in insider trading activities.


  RegTech Companies  

Some example of notable regtech companies and the tools they have created include:



IdentityMind Global: Provides anti-fraud and risk management services for digital transactions by tracking payment entities.
Trunomi: Securely manages the consent to use customer personal data.
Suade: Helps banks submit required regulatory reports without disruption to their architecture.
Silverfinch: Connects asset managers and insurers through a fund data utility to meet Solvency II requirements.
PassFort: Automates the collection and storage of customer due diligence data.
Fund Recs: Oversees how data is managed and processed by the fund industry.
What Is a Regulated Investment Company (RIC)  

A regulated investment company (RIC) can be any one of several investment entities. For example, it may take the form of a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF), a real estate investment trust (REIT), or a unit investment trust (UIT). Whichever form the RIC assumes, the structure must be deemed eligible by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to pass through taxes for capital gains, dividends, or interest earned to the individual investors.



A regulated investment company is qualified to pass-through income under Regulation M of the IRS, with the specific regulations for qualifying as an RIC delineated in U.S. code, title 26, sections 851 through 855, 860, and 4982.


   Regulated Investment Company (RIC) Basics  

The purpose of utilizing pass-through or flow-through income is to avoid a double-taxation scenario as would be the case if both the investment company and its investors paid tax on company generated income and profits. The concept of pass-through income is also referred to as the conduit theory, as the investment company is functioning as a conduit for passing on capital gains, dividends and interest to individual shareholders.






Regulated investment companies do not pay taxes on their earnings.



Without the regulated investment company allowance, both the investment company and its investors would have to pay taxes on the company's capital gains or earnings. With pass-through income, the company is not required to pay corporate income taxes on profits passed through to the shareholders. The only income tax imposed is on individual shareholders.


   Requirements to Qualify as an RIC  

To qualify as a regulated investment company the business has to meet specific perimeters.



Exist as a corporation, or other entity, which would ordinarily have taxes assessed as a corporation.
Be registered as an investment company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Elect to be deemed as an RIC by the Investment Company Act of 1940 as long as its income source and diversification of assets meets specified requirements.



Additionally, an RIC must derive a minimum of 90% of its income from capital gains, interest or dividends earned on investments. Further, an RIC must distribute a minimum of 90% of its net investment income in the form of interest, dividends or capital gains to its shareholders. Should the RIC not distribute this share of income, it may be subject to an excise tax by the IRS.



Finally, to qualify as a regulated investment company, at least 50% of a company's total assets must be in the form of cash, cash equivalents or securities. No more than 25% of the company’s total assets may be invested in securities of a single issuer unless the investments are government securities or the securities of other RICs.





Key Takeaways

A regulated investment company can be any type of investment entity including mutual funds, ETFs, and REITS.An RIC must derive a minimum of 90% of its income from capital gains, interest, or dividends earned on investments.To qualify, at least 50% of a company's total assets must be in the form of cash, cash equivalents, or securities. President Obama signed the Regulated Investment Company Modernization Act of 2010 into law Dec. 22, 2010.


   Real World Example  

President Obama signed the Regulated Investment Company Modernization Act of 2010 into law Dec. 22, 2010. It made changes to the rules governing the tax treatment of regulated investment companies (RICs), including open-end mutual funds, closed-end funds, and most exchange-traded funds. The last update to the rules governing RICs was the Tax Reform Act of 1986.



The primary reason for the 2010 RIC Modernization Act was due to vast changes in the mutual fund industry in the 25 years between 1986 and 2010. Further, many of the tax rules applicable to RICs became obsolete, created administrative burdens or caused uncertainty.
What Is Regulation A?  

Under U.S. securities laws, an offering or sale of a security must be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or meet an exemption. 



Regulation A is an exemption from registration requirements—instituted by the Securities Act of 1933—that applies to public offerings of securities. Companies utilizing the exemption are given distinct advantages over companies that must fully register.



However, there are different tiers, depending on the size of the company, and companies must still file an offering statement with the SEC. The offering must also give buyers documentation with the issue, similar to the prospectus of a registered offering.





Key Takeaways

Regulation A is an exemption from registration requirements with the SEC that applies to public offerings of securities. Regulation A was updated in 2015 to allow companies to generate income under two separate tiers representing two different types of investments.Under Tier 1 (maximum of $20 million), companies don't have ongoing reporting requirements but must issue a report on the offering's final status.Under Tier 2 (up to$75 million), companies are required to produce audited financial statements and file continual reports, including its final status.


   Understanding Regulation A  

Typically, the advantages offered by Regulation A offerings make up for the stringent documentation requirement. Among the advantages provided by the exemption can be streamlined financial statements without audit obligations, three possible format choices to use to arrange the offering circular, and no requirement to provide Exchange Act reports until the company has more than 500 shareholders and $10 million in assets.



Updates to Regulation A in 2015 allow companies to generate income under two different tiers. It's essential for investors interested in purchasing securities sold by companies utilizing Regulation A to understand which tier the security was offered.



Every company must indicate the tier under which the security falls on the front of its disclosure document or offering circular. This is important because the two tiers represent two different types of investments.


   Regulation A: Tier 1 vs. Tier 2  

Companies that use the Reg A exemption can sell their securities utilizing two different tiers, each with its own requirements. However, with both tiers, the issuer must file an offering statement with the SEC, including an offering circular, which serves as the disclosure document for investors.


  Tier 1  

Under Tier 1, a company is permitted to offer a maximum of $20 million in a 12-month period.



The issuing company must also file offering statements with the SEC, which need to be qualified by state regulators in the states in which the company plans on selling the securities.



However, companies issuing offerings under Tier 1 do not have ongoing reporting requirements but are required to issue a report on the final status of the offering.


  Tier 2  

Under Tier 2, companies can offer up to $75 million in a 12-month period.



Companies offering securities under Tier 2 are required to produce audited financial statements and file continual reports, including its final status.



However, Tier 2 issuers are not required to register or qualify their offerings with state securities regulators but still must file their offering with the SEC.



Tier 2 offerings have additional requirements such as limitations on the amount of money a non-accredited investor may invest in a Tier 2 security.
What Is Regulation B (Reg B)?  

Regulation B is intended to prevent applicants from discrimination in any aspect of a credit transaction. It outlines the rules that lenders must adhere to when obtaining and processing credit information.



Regulation B protects consumers and prohibits lenders from discriminating based on age, gender, ethnicity, nationality, or marital status.





Key Takeaways

All lenders are required to comply with Regulation B, which protects applicants from discrimination.Regulation B protects consumers and prohibits lenders from discriminating based on age, gender, ethnicity, nationality, or marital status.Reg B mandates that lenders provide explanations to rejected applicants within 30 days of receiving their completed applications.Creditors that fail to comply with Regulation B are subject to punitive damages.Reg B is part of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA), which is regulated and enforced by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 


   What Transactions Does Reg B Cover?  

All lenders are required to comply with Regulation B when extending credit to borrowers under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA), which is regulated and enforced by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).



Congress enacted the ECOA to ensure that financial institutions and firms dealing with credit make it equally available to all creditworthy customers. Any information unrelated to consumer credit cannot be used when making loan approval decisions.



Regulation B covers the actions of a creditor before, during, and after a credit transaction. The CFPB protects the following credit applications and transactions for consumers:



• Consumer credit



• Business credit



• Mortgage and open-end credit



• Refinancing



• Credit applications and information requirements



• Standards of creditworthiness and investigation procedures



• Termination of credit






Creditors that fail to comply with Reg B will be held liable for punitive damages up to $10,000 in individual actions. For class actions, the creditor could face a penalty of $500,000 or 1% of the creditor’s net worth, whichever is lower.


   Reg B and Discrimination in Lending  

When it comes to credit transactions, a creditor cannot discriminate:



Based on the applicant's race, marital status, nationality, gender, age, or religion
Against an applicant whose income comes from a public assistance program
Against an applicant who, in good faith, exercised his or her rights under the Consumer Credit Protection Act



Regulation B also mandates that lenders provide oral or written notice of rejection to failed applicants within 30 days of receiving their completed applications. The notice must explain why the applicant was rejected or give instructions for how the applicant can request this information. The spouses of rejected married applicants also have the right to this information.



The information provided to applicants about the rejection helps them take constructive steps to build their credit. More importantly, it gives applicants the chance to correct the creditor's mistakes in evaluating the applicant's creditworthiness.


   Reg B and Requests for Information  

Under Regulation B, a lender may not request information about an applicant’s sex, national origin, color, or other information not related to creditworthiness.



However, there are certain times when such information can be collected from the applicant. For example, an applicant who puts down his home as collateral will have additional information collected for monitoring compliance.



An applicant's age can be requested if it appears that they cannot legally sign a contract. Creditors can ask about the number of children, their ages, and the borrower's financial obligations relating to the children. Marital status is also required if the applicant resides in a community property state.



A creditor may only request information from a loan applicant’s spouse if:



The spouse will be permitted to use the account
The spouse will be contractually liable for the account
The applicant is relying on the spouse's income as a basis for repayment of the credit requested
The applicant resides in a community property state or relies on property located in such a state as a basis for repayment of the credit requested
The applicant relies on alimony, child support, or separate maintenance payments from a spouse or former spouse as a basis for repayment of the credit requested


   Benefits of Regulation B  

The most important benefit of Regulation B is that it helps to prevent discrimination against women and minorities. Regulation B's prohibition of advertising that would discourage potential applicants from applying for loans is a crucial part of redlining cases. Redlining is an unethical and illegal practice that denies loans or services to people living in majority-minority communities.



Reg B also helps anyone who is denied credit by requiring lenders to give them an explanation. Errors in credit reports are fairly common, and many people only find out about them after being denied credit. Without Regulation B's explanation requirement, many potential borrowers with errors in their credit reports would become discouraged and give up. Once people know the reason for the denial, there is a strong incentive to correct the credit reports and reapply.






Redlining has often been used to discriminate against Black Americans.




Is Reg B Part of Fair Lending?
Yes. Regulation B of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) describes lending acts and practices that are specifically prohibited, permitted, or required. for fair lending practices.




Who Is Subject to Regulation B?
Regulation B applies to all persons who, in the ordinary course of business, regularly participate in the credit decision of an applicant or borrower, including setting the terms of the credit.




What Are the Prohibited Bases of Reg B?
Prohibited basis under Regulation B refers to a borrower's race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age. Also included may be the fact that all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or the fact that the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act or any related state law. As such, lenders cannot discriminate based on any of the above factors.


   The Bottom Line  

Regulation B of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits lenders from using ascribed characteristics of a borrower, such as their age, gender, race, ethnicity, or religion, when making credit or loan decision. Prior to Reg B, discriminatory lending practices such as redlining for mortgages was prevalent in the U.S. Regulation B makes such practices illegal.
What Is Regulation CC?  

Regulation CC is one of the banking regulations set forth by the Federal Reserve. Regulation CC implements the Expedited Funds Availability Act (EFAA) of 1987 and the Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act (Check 21). These laws set specific requirements for the timely availability of deposits that are made by customers into transaction accounts. These laws addressed the lengths of hold times banks previously placed on checks deposited by customers.





Key Takeaways

Regulation CC implements the Expedited Funds Availability Act of 1987, which sets forth requirements that banks make deposited funds available according to specified time schedules.Regulation CC requires financial institutions to provide account holders with disclosures that indicate when deposited funds will be available for withdrawal.Regulation CC addressed long hold times that customers were facing after they had deposited checks to banks, including implementing maximum hold times.The enactment of the Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act, implemented under Regulation CC, allowed check collection among banks in the U.S. to become predominantly electronic-based.


   Understanding Regulation CC  

Regulation CC is designed to require financial institutions to correctly process deposited checks on a timely basis. Unpaid checks are also required to be immediately returned to the paying bank.



Congress instituted the Expedited Funds Availability Act of 1987 because of concerns regarding the length of time holds were being placed on checks by banks after customers had deposited them. The Expedited Funds Availability Act created a maximum hold period for checks. Regulation CC put into effect the disclosure and funds-availability provisions of the legislation.






Regulation CC requires financial institutions to provide account-holding customers with disclosures that indicate when deposited funds will be available for withdrawal.


   How Regulation CC Works  

As part of the policies to regulate the check-clearing system, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve adopted rules to hasten the return of unpaid checks.



Check-return rules and same-day settlement rules are outlined and implemented under Regulation CC. The intent of those rules is to reduce risks to depository banks regarding the availability of funds for withdrawal after checks are deposited. The check-return rule better ensures that banks can discover whether or not the checks were returned as unpaid. Same-day settlement decreases the disparity between private sector banks and reserve banks when checks are presented for payment.


   Regulation CC Requirements  

Other rules and policies implemented under Regulation CC include the Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act (Check 21). This legislation was created by Congress as a means to improve efficiency in the payment system. The act reduced certain legal impediments to electronic check processing. The act allowed for the creation of a substitute for paper checks in electronic check processing as a legal equivalent for original checks.



The act lets banks send checks electronically instead of requiring them in paper form when processing funds with banks they have agreements in place with. This also lets banks send substitute checks to banks with which they do not have electronic processing agreements.



The enactment of this act under Regulation CC has allowed check collection among banks in the United States to become predominantly electronic-based. This has also given banks the ability to offer their customers other types of electronic-based services.




How Does Regulation CC Protect Me?
When you deposit cash or checks into your checking or savings account at a bank, Regulation CC specifies how soon you can have access to your deposited funds. Additionally, Regulation CC requires that your bank discloses to you the schedule of when your funds will be available for withdrawal.For example, cash deposits must be available for withdrawal no later than the business day after the business day on which it was deposited. Government checks and some other types of checks also have similar rules. The bank must notify you of the schedule of when your deposits will be available.




How Did the Reserve Banks Reduce Check Processing Offices?
The Check 21 Act enabled banks to send checks electronically, rather than as a paper check, to banks they have agreements with. If there are no agreements, the banks may send a substitute check, which is a new type of paper instrument, which is the equivalent of a paper check.As a result of these system improvements, the nation's interbank check-collection processes have become almost entirely electronic. Thus, the reserve banks have been able to reduce the number of their paper-check processing offices from 45 in 2003 to a single office in 2010.




How Long Do Checks Take to Clear?
For checks collected through the Federal Reserve Banks, the accounts of institutions collecting funds are credited for the value of deposits and the accounts of institutions paying funds are debited for the value of checks to be paid. Most checks are collected and settled within one business day.


   The Bottom Line  

Regulation CC improves the service banks give to their depositors by regulating the time that funds become available for withdrawal from transaction accounts, depending on their origin, amount, and other factors. Banks are required to disclose the schedule of times when holds are released to their customers.



Additionally, Regulation CC streamlined the ability of the nation's banking system to process checks electronically, which reduced human error, sped up the process, and drastically lowered the number of check-processing offices throughout the country, from 45 locations in 2003 to one location since 2010.
What Is SEC Regulation D (Reg D)?  

Regulation D (Reg D) is a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulation governing private placement exemptions. It should not be confused with Federal Reserve Board Regulation D, which limits withdrawals from savings accounts.



Reg D offerings are advantageous to private companies or entrepreneurs that meet the requirements because funding can be obtained faster and at a lower cost than with a public offering. It is usually used by smaller companies. The regulation allows capital to be raised through the sale of equity or debt securities without the need to register those securities with the SEC. However, many other state and federal regulatory requirements still apply.





Key Takeaways

Regulation D lets companies doing specific types of private placements raise capital without needing to register the securities with the SEC.SEC Reg D should not be confused with Federal Reserve Board Regulation D, which limits withdrawals from savings accounts.The company or entrepreneur must file a Form D disclosure document with the SEC after the first securities are sold.Those selling securities under Regulation D must still comply with all applicable laws.


   Understanding SEC Regulation D (Reg D)  

Raising capital through a Reg D investment involves meeting significantly less onerous requirements than a public offering. That allows companies to save time and sell securities that they might not otherwise be able to issue in some cases.






While Regulation D makes raising funds easier, buyers of these securities still enjoy the same legal protections as other investors.



It is not necessary to keep Regulation D transactions a secret, even though they are private offerings. There are directives within the regulation that, depending on which rules are applied, may allow offerings to be openly solicited to prospective investors in a company's network.


   Requirements of SEC Regulation D  

Even if the Reg D transaction involves just one or two investors, the company or entrepreneur must still provide the proper framework and disclosure documentation. A document known as Form D must be filed electronically with the SEC after the first securities are sold. Form D, however, contains far less information than the exhaustive documentation required for a public offering. The form requires the names and addresses of the company's executives and directors. It also requires some essential details regarding the offering.



The issuer of a security offered under Reg D must also provide written disclosures of any prior “bad actor” events, such as criminal convictions, within a reasonable time frame before the sale. Without this requirement, the company might be free to claim it was unaware of the checkered past of its employees. In that case, it would be less accountable for any further "bad acts" they might commit in association with the Reg D offering.



According to rules published in the Federal Register, transactions that fall under Reg D are not exempt from antifraud, civil liability, or other provisions of federal securities laws. Reg D also does not eliminate the need for compliance with applicable state laws relating to the offer and sale of securities. State regulations, where Reg D has been adopted, may include disclosure of any notices of sale to be filed. They may require the names of individuals who receive compensation in connection with the sale of securities.


   Exemptions Established By Regulation D  

Under SEC Regulation D, there are three rules that create exemptions for companies to make private offerings.


  Rule 504  

Rule 504 is an SEC regulation that allows companies to sell up to $10 million in securities in a 12-month period without registration. The company must file Form D within 15 days of the first sale. It must also comply with all regulations and laws in the states where the securities are being sold or offered.



Some companies are not eligible for a Rule 504 exemption. These include:



Investment companiesExchange Act reporting companiesCompanies with no specific business planCompanies that plan to engage in a merger or acquisition with an unidentified company or companiesCompanies that are liable for a "bad actor" disqualification


  Rule 505  

In 2016, the SEC phased out Rule 505 and integrated many of its provisions into Rule 504. Previously, it allowed a company to sell up to $5 million of its securities in any 12-month period. These securities could be sold to an unlimited number of accredited investors but no more than 35 non-accredited investors.


  Rule 506  

A company that qualifies under Rule 506 can raise an unlimited amount of capital in offerings. The seller must be available to answer questions from the buyers, and buyers receive restricted securities.



As with the previous Rule 505, a company operating under Rule 506(b) may sell to an unlimited number of accredited investors and up to 35 non-accredited investors. Unlike under Rule 505, however, all non-accredited investors must be considered "sophisticated." This meany they must have enough of a financial or business background to evaluate the potential risks and rewards of the investment.



If the company is selling to accredited investors, it has discretion over what company information it discloses. If it sells to non-accredited investors, though, it must follow more stringent disclosure rules, including disclosing its financial statements.


  Accredited Investor Exemption  

The Securities Act of 1933 allows unregistered sales to accredited investors if the total offering price is under $5 million. However, Regulation D does not address private offerings of securities under this provision.


   Limitations of SEC Regulation D  

The benefits of Reg D are only available to the issuer of the securities, not to affiliates of the issuer or to any other individual who might later resell them. What is more, the regulatory exemptions offered under Reg D only apply to the transactions, not to the securities themselves.




What Is the Goal of Regulation D?
Regulation D allows smaller companies that cannot afford a registered public offering to still access capital markets. The provisions in Regulation D also serve as safeguards for investors in private offerings, allowing them to verify that a company meets the exemption requirements and is not engaging in fraudulent activity.




What Is An Accredited Investor?
Accredited investors are people or businesses who are permitted to trade securities that are not registered with the SEC. They must meet certain financial or business benchmarks. An accredited investor must either have a net worth of $1 million or more, have an annual income of at least $200,000 ($300,000 if married) in each of the prior two years, or meet certain professional criteria.




How Is Regulation A Different From Regulation D?
Like Regulation D, Regulation A allows smaller companies to sell securities to the public with fewer reporting requirements than a public offering has. However, Regulation D requires that most investors be accredited investors. Under Regulation A, companies may sell to non-accredited investors. However, there are limits on the amount of money a non-accredited investor may invest.


   The Bottom Line  

Regulation D is a provision that exempts some companies from the registration requirements associated with a public offering. It gives smaller companies access to investment capital by letting them offer specific types of private placements.



There are rules within Regulation D that allow different types of companies to raise money up to certain amounts. They also lay out limitations for investments by non-accredited investors. A company selling securities under Regulation D must still comply with all applicable state securities laws.
What Is Regulation DD?  

Regulation DD is a directive set forth by the Federal Reserve. Regulation DD was enacted to implement the Truth in Savings Act (TISA) that was passed in 1991. This act requires lenders to provide certain uniform information about fees and interest when opening an account for a customer.



It was enacted in order to help consumers make more meaningful comparisons and more informed decisions about the accounts they open at depository institutions, which provide the information noted above through disclosures. These disclosures are given to consumers at various times, including when an account is first opened.



Additionally, state laws that are inconsistent with the requirements of this federal act are pre-empted to the extent of the inconsistency. There is a procedure for requesting a preemption determination from the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau (CFPB).


   Understanding Regulation DD  

Regulation DD applies only to accounts opened by individuals—not to corporate or other organizational accounts. It is designed to protect and empower non-sophisticated customers. Regulation DD helps individuals make intelligent decisions about where to open financial accounts. The regulation applies to depository institutions with the exception of credit unions.






Regulation DD applies only to accounts opened by individuals but not to corporate or other organizational accounts.



The types of accounts the regulation is intended to assist consumers with include savings accounts, checking accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit (CDs), variable-rate accounts, and accounts denominated in a foreign currency.



Financial institutions are required under Regulation DD to disclose information to consumers regarding annual percentage yield, interest rates, minimum balance requirements, account opening disclosures, and fee schedules. Disclosures are provided to consumers:



When the account is openWhen the consumer requests a disclosureWhen there are changes to the terms and conditions of the accountWhen and if the account matures


   Truth in Savings Act  

Regulation DD implements the TISA, which was part of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Improvement Act that passed the same year—in 1991. The act was meant to promote healthy competition between institutions and create economic stability. It also directs banks to be more transparent about some of their policies, giving consumers more power to decide where they want to do their banking business.





Key Takeaways

Regulation DD is a directive set forth by the Federal Reserve, enacted to implement the Truth in Savings Act that was passed in 1991.It was enacted to help consumers make more informed decisions about the accounts they open.Banks and other financial institutions are required to provide consumers with disclosures about things such as account opening procedures and interest rates.Several amendments were implemented to include uniformity of information given to consumers and disclosures made through automated systems.


   Regulation DD Rules  

Advertising rules set forth apply to individuals—including deposit brokers—who advertise the types of accounts offered by the institutions subject to the regulation. The marketing rules restrict institutions from advertising in any way that may mislead consumers, present inaccurate information, or otherwise misrepresent the contract for the deposit account. The ads cannot use the term profit when referencing the interest paid on an account.



For example, if a deposit broker places an ad to offer consumers interest in an account, the advertising rules apply to the advertisement regardless of whether the account is held by the consumer or the broker.


   Regulation DD Amendments  

Regulation DD was amended in 2006 to address issues like the concerns about uniformity of information provided to consumers when deposit accounts are overdrawn. In 2010, other amendments were added directing depository institutions to comply with rule changes governing disclosures on periodic statements for aggregate overdraft and returned item fees. The amendments also featured a rule on providing balance disclosures to consumers made through automated systems.



Regulation DD stipulates that disclosures provided to consumers are clear and conspicuous and are made available in writing or another form the consumer can keep. The disclosures must also make it clear and identifiable when these disclosures for different accounts have been combined. 



Disclosures must reflect the terms of the legal obligation established for the accounts in question and the agreement between the consumer and the institution. These disclosures can be rendered in electronic form at the approval of the consumer.




Do Credit Unions Have to Comply With Regulation DD?
No. Regulation DD only applies to accounts issued by depository institutions. Non-banks and credit unions are not affected.




When Does a Bank Have to Notify Me of Changes?
It depends. For changes unfavorable to the consumer—for example, increases in fees for bank services—Regulation DD requires financial institutions to provide the consumer with at least 30 days’ notice. For changes that are favorable to the consumer—decreasing or eliminating fees—no notice is required on the institution's part. However, if favorable changes are temporary, the financial institution must comply with the requirements for advance notice of a change in terms. 




Does a Bank Have to Notify Me in Writing?
The financial institution must provide, in writing, account disclosures that reflect the legal obligation, or the contract between the parties; and these disclosures must be in a form that consumers can retain. The information must be presented clearly and conspicuously, so that consumers can understand the account terms.


   The Bottom Line  

Regulation DD offers consumers protection by requiring banks to provide transparent, upfront disclosures that help non-institutional consumers compare terms at different banks in order to make the best decisions for themselves about where to open an account.
What Is Regulation E?  

Regulation E is a regulation put forth by the Federal Reserve Board that outlines rules and procedures for electronic funds transfers (EFTs) and provides guidelines for issuers of electronic debit cards. The regulation is meant to protect banking customers who use electronic methods to transfer money.


   Understanding Regulation E  

Regulation E provides guidelines for consumers and banks or other financial institutions in the context of EFTs. These include transfers with automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale transactions, and Automated Clearing House (ACH) systems. Rules pertaining to consumer liability for unauthorized card usage fall under this regulation as well.






Consumers and financial institutions both have an interest in understanding Regulation E’s guidelines.



Regulation E was issued by the Federal Reserve (Fed) as an implementation of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, a law passed by the U.S. Congress in 1978 as a means of protecting consumers engaged in these sorts of financial transactions.



Much of Regulation E outlines the procedures that consumers must follow in reporting errors with EFTs, and the steps that a bank must take to provide recourse. Errors subject to these regulations could include the consumer’s receipt of an incorrect amount of money from an ATM, unauthorized credit or debit card activity, or an unauthorized wire transfer to or from a consumer’s account. 





Key Takeaways

Regulation E outlines rules for electronic funds transfers and provides guidelines for issuers and sellers of debit cards.It was enacted to protect consumers.It’s essential for both consumers and financial institutions to have an interest in understanding Regulation E’s guidelines.



Generally, banks have a period of 10 business days during which to investigate a reported EFT error. This can, however, be extended to 45 business days provided that the bank provisionally credits the consumer’s account with the reportedly missing funds. Banks then must report the results of an investigation to the Fed and to the consumer.



Regulation E also outlines consumer responsibility for reporting unauthorized EFT activity, typically involving a stolen or missing card. For example, consumers must report lost or stolen credit cards no more than two days after the consumer becomes aware of the theft; otherwise, the bank has no obligation to refund losses.



Regulation E governs the issuance of debit but not credit cards, which are governed by regulations outlined in the Truth in Lending Act and implemented by the Fed as Regulation Z. However, Regulation E does govern EFT features of credit card usage.


   Special Considerations  

Consumers should make sure that they are complying with federal regulations when reporting errors, to make sure that their financial institutions are complying and to avoid liability. Financial institutions should circulate these regulations internally to make sure that they have no difficulty in complying. 


   Example of Regulation E  

If you have a bank account, Regulation E has some important benefits. It delineates your rights for disputing ATM or debit card transactions if you believe an EFT has been made in error.



This includes counterfeit errors as well as accidental ones. For example, if you decide to cancel a TV streaming subscription service, but you see an additional charge for membership after the cancellation, you could ask the streaming service for a refund, and if you are refused, you could dispute the transaction with your bank according to Regulation E rules.


   Enforcement of Regulation E  

Very specific rules for compliance by the EFT service provider are established in Regulation E. These requirements include keeping track of consumer agreements, providing periodic statements, error resolution, reimbursement of fees incorrectly charged to the consumer, providing access to account information, disclosing a telephone number that the consumer can use to contact the financial institution, and so on.



Enforcement depends on various sources of information to identify possible issues that may lead to opening an investigation, including:



Consumer complaints
The whistleblower hotline of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)
Referrals from federal regulators and other local, state, and federal agencies
Market intelligence
The results of supervisory exams



Other factors that weigh in on whether an investigation is initiated include if:



There is a set of facts that, if proven, would amount to a violation of one or more federal consumer financial lawsThere is reason to believe that one or more entities is involved in the conduct described in the factsThere is evidence of a level of harm that justifies use of resourcesThere are enough resources available to address the matter



A description of the CFPB’s enforcement work (November 2020) can be found here.




How does Regulation E protect me?
Regulation E allows you to dispute these types of errors:Unauthorized electronic funds transfers (EFTs)Incorrect EFTs to or from your accountOmission of an EFT from your bank statementComputational or bookkeeping errors made by your bank regarding an EFTReceipt of an incorrect amount of money from an automated teller machine (ATM) or other electronic terminalErrors involving pre-authorized transfersRequests for additional information or clarification concerning an EFT (citation)




How does Regulation E protect me if my debit card is stolen?
Regulation E limits your liability if your debit card is lost or stolen. The sooner that you report a lost or stolen debit card, the lower your maximum liability is if unauthorized charges are made with the card. The longer that you wait to report a lost or stolen debit card, the higher your personal liability will be if the card is used for unauthorized charges.A guide to consumer liability for lost or stolen debit cards can be found here.




Does Regulation E cover credit cards?
No. Credit cards are covered by the Truth in Lending Act of 1968, modified in 2009 by the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure (Credit CARD) Act, but they are not covered by Regulation E, which only covers consumers when they use EFTs.


   The Bottom Line  

Regulation E was enacted under the CFPB, the regulatory agency that oversees financial products and services offered to consumers. The CFPB was created in 2010. Regulation E establishes the basic rights, liabilities, and responsibilities of consumers who use EFTs and remittance transfer services, and of the financial institutions or others that offer these services.
What Is Regulation O?  

Regulation O is a Federal Reserve regulation that places limits and stipulations on the credit extensions a member bank can offer to its executive officers, principal shareholders, and directors.



The regulation is designed to prevent bank directors, trustees, executive officers, or principal shareholders ("insiders") from benefiting from favorable credit extensions.





Key Takeaways:

Regulation O regulates the credit extensions that member banks can offer to their "insiders."Regulation O requires that banks report any extensions provided to insiders in their quarterly reports. Regulation O defines bank insiders as directors or trustees of a bank, executive officers, or principal shareholders.The restrictions in place are devised to prevent bank insiders from receiving advantageous or generous credit extensions,


   Understanding Regulation O  

Regulation O regulates the credit extensions that member banks can offer to individuals who are considered to be "insiders" with respect to the bank. While bank insiders are not barred from taking out loans from a bank with which they are professionally associated, federal law carefully regulates how that bank treats the insider as a customer. In addition to setting restrictions on credit extensions for bank insiders, Regulation O requires that banks report any extensions provided to insiders in their quarterly reports. 



Regulation O also gives a clear definition of bank insiders, dividing them into multiple tiers of association, subject to different credit extension regulations. Insiders can be directors or trustees of a bank, executive officers (for example, the president or treasurer, or principal shareholders (individuals who own or otherwise control more than 10% of the publicly-traded shares of the institution).



Generally speaking, the restrictions in place are devised to ensure that bank insiders are not given more advantageous or generous credit extensions than the bank would provide for a non-insider. The bank cannot give credit extensions that it would not provide to a non-insider customer, nor can it extend credit beyond legal or self-imposed lending limits. One exception to this rule comes with compensation packages provided by banks to all employees, including non-insiders.



For example, if a bank has a policy of waiving certain mortgage application fees for non-insider employees (such as tellers), the same fees could be waived for the bank president, who would be an insider.


   Implementation and Expansion  

Regulation O lays out the reporting requirements included in two previous financial laws: the Financial Institutions Regulatory and Interest Rate Control Act of 1978 (the first iteration of Regulation O was fully rolled out by 1980) and the Depository Institutions Act of 1982. 



Banks and other lending institutions are often able to find exceptions or workarounds to Regulation O, in effect, providing preferential treatment to insiders without violating any of the regulations. One of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act provided an extended definition of "credit extension" to expand the scope of Regulation O.






Reg O covers national banks, state banks, savings associations, and insured branches of foreign banking organizations.


   Special Considerations for Regulation O  

Recent growth in investments in mutual funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and other index-based investment products have caused a number of companies to pay greater attention to Regulation O. Large asset management companies are becoming principal shareholders through "fund complexes," organizations that invest in funds.



A complex that acquires 10% of a class of voting securities of a banking organization is considered a “principal shareholder.”




What Is the Purpose of Regulation O?
Regulation O was implemented to prevent certain bank insiders from receiving more favorable terms or benefits on loans or credit than those provided to non-insiders or other bank customers.




Who Is Considered an Insider Under Regulation O?
A Regulation O insider is a principal shareholder, an executive officer, a director, or a related interest of any of these persons.




Which Extensions of Credit Does Regulation O Cover?
Regulation O covers insider loans, where there is any sort of indebtedness upon which an insider may be liable as guarantor. Examples would include extensions of credit by a member bank to an executive officer, director, or principal shareholder of the member bank; a bank holding company of which the member bank is a subsidiary; and any other subsidiary of that bank holding company.




Does Regulation O Apply to Family Members?
Shares owned or controlled by immediate family members are attributed to the insider individual. Such immediate family members are limited to a spouse, and minor or adult children living with the insider.


   The Bottom Line  

Regulation O prohibits lenders from extending unfair or favorable terms to bank insiders at the expense of others. It is conceivable that a bank or bank employee could attempt to give their own preferential or special treatment, such as lower interest rates, reduced fees, more flexible repayment terms, or more cursory credit checks. Reg O outlaws such practices.
What Is Regulation SHO?  

Regulation SHO is a set of rules from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) implemented in 2005 that regulates short sale practices.



Regulation SHO established "locate" and "close-out" requirements aimed at curtailing naked short selling and other practices. Naked shorting takes place when investors sell short shares that they do not possess and have not confirmed their ability to possess.





Key Takeaways

Regulation SHO is a 2005 SEC rule that regulates short selling.The regulation introduced the "locate" and "close-out" requirements aimed at curtailing naked short selling.In 2010, Regulation SHO was amended via changes to Rule 201, which stops short selling on a security when prices have decreased by 10% or more during the trading day, mandating that new bids be above the current price.


   Understanding Regulation SHO  

Short selling refers to an exchange of securities through a broker on margin. An investor borrows a stock, sells it, and then buys the stock back to return to the lender. Short sellers are betting the stock they sell will drop in price. Broker-dealers loan securities to clients for the purpose of short selling.



The SEC implemented Regulation SHO on January 3, 2005—the first significant update to short selling rules since they were first adopted in 1938. Regulation SHO's "locate" standard requires brokers to have a reasonable belief the equity to be shorted can be borrowed and delivered on a specific date before short selling can occur. The "close-out" standard represents the increased amount of delivery requirements imposed upon securities that have many extended delivery failures at a clearing agency.



Regulation SHO requires reporting when the following has occurred for five consecutive settlement days:



The aggregate fails to deliver at a registered clearing agency of 10,000 shares or more per security.The number of fails is equal to at least one-half of one percent of the issue's total shares outstanding.The security is included on a list published by a self-regulatory organization (SRO).


   History of Regulation SHO  

Regulation SHO has been amended over the years. After initial adoption came two exceptions to the close-out requirement: the legacy provision and the options market maker exception. There were ongoing concerns, though, regarding instances where requirements were not being met for closing out securities that had failed to deliver positions. Those concerns eventually led to the elimination of both exceptions in 2008. The result of this change was the strengthening of the close-out requirements by applying them to failures to deliver as a result of a sales of all equity securities (as well as cutting down the time allowed for failures to deliver to be closed out).



Further changes to Regulation SHO came in 2010. One of the primary issues the SEC had originally sought to address was the use of short selling to artificially force down the price of a security. It specifically dealt with this problem via the modification of Rule 201, which limits the price that short sales can be affected during a period of significant downward price pressure on a stock.






Rule 201 is colloquially known as the alternative uptick rule.



Rule 201 is triggered in the midst of a substantial decrease in a stock's price during intraday trading—specifically when its shares fall at least 10% in one day. It mandates that short-sale orders must include a price above the current bid, a move that prevents sellers from accelerating the downward momentum of a security already in sharp decline.﻿﻿﻿



As a part of Rule 201, trading centers are required to establish and enforce policies that prevent short sales at what would be deemed impermissible prices after a stock is dealt a 10% decrease in its price within the trading day. This would trigger a "circuit breaker" that would bring price test restrictions into effect on short sales on that day and into the next trading day.﻿﻿﻿


   Special Considerations  

Certain types of short sales can qualify for an exception to Regulation SHO. These orders are known as short exempt and are marked by brokers with the initials SSE. The primary exception is the use of non-standard pricing quotes for trade execution.﻿﻿
What Is Regulation T?  

Regulation T is a collection of provisions that govern investors' cash accounts and the amount of credit that brokerage firms and dealers may extend to customers for the purchase of securities. According to Regulation T, an investor may borrow up to 50% of the purchase price of securities that can be bought using a loan from a broker or dealer. The remaining 50% of the price must be funded with cash.





Key Takeaways

Regulation T governs cash accounts and the amount of credit that broker-dealers can extend to investors for the purchase of securities.Investors who want to purchase securities using broker-dealer credit need to apply for a margin account.Reg T mandates that investors can borrow no more than 50% of the purchase price while the remaining balance must be paid in cash.


   Understanding Regulation T (Reg T)  

Buying securities with borrowed money is commonly referred to as buying on margin, which refers to assets that an investor must deposit with a broker-dealer to obtain a loan. Additionally, Regulation T promulgates payment rules on certain securities transactions made through cash accounts.



Regulation T, or Reg T, was established by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to provide rules for extensions of credit by brokers and dealers and to regulate cash accounts. An investor who has a cash account cannot borrow funds from a broker-dealer and must pay the purchase price of securities with cash.



Margin accounts, on the other hand, allow investors to obtain credit to fund a portion of their securities purchase. Because buying securities on credit can expose investors to sudden losses of a much larger magnitude compared to the same purchase using only cash, the Federal Reserve Board stepped in and promulgated a rule that limited the borrowing to be no greater than 50% of the securities purchase price.﻿﻿



The 50% requirement is called the initial margin because it establishes a minimum borrowing level at the time of purchase. Certain brokers may have stricter requirements, with levels above 50%.






Regulation T limits the amount of credit an investor can get from their broker to buy securities on margin.


   Special Considerations  

While the primary goal of Regulation T was to govern margin, it also introduced transaction rules for cash accounts. Because it takes up to two days for securities transactions to settle and the cash proceeds to be delivered to the seller of securities, a situation can arise when an investor buys and sells the same securities before paying for them from the cash account. This is called freeriding, and it is prohibited by Reg T.



In such cases, the investor's broker must freeze the cash account for 90 days, requiring the investor to fund their securities purchases with cash on the date of the trade.


   Example of Reg T  

An investor who wishes to purchase securities using broker-dealer credit must apply for a margin account that grants borrowing privileges. When investors borrow money in their margin account, they must pay interest based on the rate schedule established by the broker-dealer.



Suppose an investor wishes to obtain a loan from a brokerage firm to purchase 10 shares of a certain company with a price per share of $100, resulting in a total purchase of $1,000. Regulation T states that the investor can borrow no more than 50% of the purchase price, or $500, from the broker, while the remaining balance must be paid in cash.
What Is Regulation U?  

Regulation U is a Federal Reserve Board regulation that governs loans by entities involving securities as collateral and the purchase of securities on margin. Regulation U limits the amount of leverage that can be extended for loans secured by securities for the purpose of buying more securities. Securities involved typically include stocks, mutual funds, and other market-traded securities.





Key Takeaways

Regulation U is a Federal Reserve requirement for lenders who extend credit secured by margin stock—excluding securities brokers and dealers.Margin stock includes equity security registered on a national exchange, such as the NYSE, over-the-counter (OTC) security trading on the Nasdaq, debt security that can be converted into a margin stock, and most mutual funds.The regulation applies to commercial banks, savings and loan associations, federal savings banks, credit unions, production credit associations, insurance companies, and companies with employee stock option plans.Regulation U puts limits on entities that give out credit for the purpose of buying or carrying margin stock, using securities as collateral for the loans.


   Understanding Regulation U  

Regulation U is designed to mitigate the adherent risks that exist when using margin leverage in securities trading, especially when too much leverage is granted to an individual or business. By limiting the margin amount, Regulation U aims to limit the potential losses that both borrowers and banks or lenders can sustain in instances where leverage can lead to very large losses relative to the physical capital extended.



Regulation U specifically focuses on leverage extended with securities as collateral, for the purchase of additional securities. It applies to entities other than broker-dealers such as commercial banks, savings and loan associations, federal savings banks, credit unions, production credit associations, insurance companies and companies that have employee stock option plans.



Regulation U sets a limit on the maximum loan amount an entity can issue to a borrower securing the loan against stock or other securities for the purpose of buying more securities. The maximum loan value that can be offered is 50% of the collateral securities’ market value.






Regulation U is designed to put a floor on potential losses that borrowers and banks or lenders can suffer in instances where leverage can lead to big losses relative to the capital that was made available.


   Bank Lender Requirements  

Regulation U has two important requirements that bank lenders must comply with. First, a bank lender must obtain a purpose statement (Form U-1) for loans secured by collateral that exceed $100,000. Second, a bank lender can only extend credit for 50% of the value of the securities used as collateral on the loan if the loan is to be used for securities purchases.



Regulation U specifically applies to secured loans extended for the purpose of buying securities. This is why purpose statements are important for complying with Regulation U. Purpose statements are more strictly enforced for loans exceeding $100,000. A bank lender does not have Federal Reserve Board restrictions when issuing a loan secured with securities that are not intended for the use of buying more securities.





1936

The year Regulation U first began covering securities credit extended specifically by commercial banks.


   Example of Regulation U Limits  

For example, assume a borrower would like to borrow money from a bank for the purpose of buying securities and the borrower plans to use $400,000 in securities as collateral. The loan would require a Form U-1 disclosing the purpose of the loan. Since the loan is for the purpose of buying more securities, the maximum amount of credit the bank can extend to the borrower is $200,000. If the borrower increased the amount of collateral he was willing to use to secure the loan to $500,000 then the bank could offer him a loan for $250,000.


   Regulation U Exemptions  

Some exceptions to Regulation U may apply. Nonbank lenders are subject to slightly different oversight when lending with securities as collateral. Additionally, loans offered against employee stock option plans may be exempt from Regulation U requirements.
What Is Regulation W?  

Regulation W is a U.S. Federal Reserve System (FRS) regulation that limits certain transactions between depository institutions, such as banks and their affiliates. In particular, it sets quantitative limits on covered transactions and requires collateral for certain transactions.



The regulation applies to banks that are members of the Fed, insured state non-member banks, and insured savings associations. Regulation W was introduced to consolidate several decades of interpretations and rulemaking under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act.





Key Takeaways

Regulation W restricts certain kinds of transactions between banks and their affiliates.The rules that banks must follow to comply with Regulation W were tightened by post-2008 financial reforms.The Dodd-Frank Act expanded the definition of a bank affiliate and the types of transactions Regulation W covers.


   Understanding Regulation W  

Regulation W, the rule that implements sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, was published on Dec. 12, 2002, and came into effect on April 1, 2003.



Sections 23A and 23B, Regulation W limits the risks to a bank from transactions between the bank and its affiliates. They also limit the ability of a depository institution to transfer to its affiliates the subsidy arising from the institution's access to the federal safety net, which offers benefits such as lower-cost insured deposits and the discount window. These objectives are accomplished by imposing quantitative and qualitative limits on the ability of a bank to extend credit to an affiliate or engage in certain other transactions with it.



The Fed noted in January 2003 that Regulation W included 70 years' worth of interpretive guidance concerning statutory requirements "that are fairly brief but extremely complex in application." Regulation W is comprehensive in its scope, resolving as many as nine significant issues, including derivative transactions, intraday credit, and financial subsidiaries.


   Complying With Regulation W  

Because most large U.S. banks exist within a diversified holding company structure, the possibility that bank funds may finance somewhat risky purposes exists. Regulation W seeks to limit this risk and is conceptually straightforward, although implementation is not easy. Compliance with Regulation W is a particular challenge for some banks that are dealing with issues such as rapid growth in capital market activities or integration of previous acquisitions.



Complying with Regulation W was complex, even before the regulatory reforms that were instituted in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act—which has been criticized by some as being overly burdensome—further tightened Regulation W’s requirements.



Because exemptions to Regulation W rules widely provided emergency liquidity to affiliates during the financial crisis, the Fed's ability to grant exemptions on its sole authority was curbed under the new rules. For example, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) now has 60 days to determine whether an exemption is justified or whether it might pose an unacceptable risk to its deposit insurance fund and raise any objections.



Modifications to Regulation W have also expanded the concept of what an “affiliate” is and what constitutes a “covered transaction” under the law. Banking regulators now expect greater transparency from banks in complying with Regulation W.






Regulation W aims to protect banks and federal deposit insurance funds from undue financial risk.


   When Does Regulation W Apply?  

Given that Regulation W applies to covered transactions between a bank and its affiliate, two basic questions need to be answered in determining whether a transaction is subject to this regulation:



Is the transaction between a bank and an affiliate of the bank?Is the transaction a "covered transaction"?



Regulation W defines a bank's affiliates quite broadly including any company that the bank directly or indirectly controls or that is sponsored and advised by a bank, as well as subsidiaries of the bank.



Covered transactions under Regulation W cover a wide spectrum of transactions, including:



The extension of credit to an affiliateInvestment in securities issued by an affiliateAsset purchases from an affiliateThe acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate as collateral for creditThe issuance of a guarantee or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate


   Special Considerations  

Under Regulation W, transactions with any affiliate must total no more than 10% of a financial institution's capital, and transactions with all affiliates combined must total no more than 20% of an institution's capital.



Banks are also prohibited from purchasing low-quality assets from their affiliates, such as bonds with principal and interest payments that are more than 30 days past due. Meanwhile, any extension of credit must be secured by collateral with coverage that ranges between 100% and 130% of the total transaction amount.



As an example, consider a transaction where the hypothetical bank BigBanc intends to purchase a loan portfolio from its subsidiary SmallBanc. In order to comply with Regulation W, BigBanc must ensure that the transaction with SmallBanc does not exceed more than 10% of its capital and that the loan portfolio is not considered a low-quality asset. The transaction must also take place under market terms and conditions.



The Fed monitors banks' exposures to their affiliates through the FR Y-8 report that collects information on transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliates. The report has to be submitted by banks quarterly, on the last calendar day of each quarter.



Financial institutions that are found to be in violation of Regulation W can be hit with substantial civil penalties. The amount of the fine is determined by several factors, including whether the violation was caused with intent, undertaken with reckless disregard for the institution's financial safety and soundness, or resulted in any type of gain by the perpetrator.




How Does Regulation W Work?
Regulation W establishes the rulemaking authority granted to the Federal Reserve pursuant to sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. It regulates covered transactions, which include the extension of credit to an affiliate, asset purchases from an affiliate, acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate as collateral for credit, and other specifically defined transactions.




What Is the Limit of a Transaction With a Single Affiliate?
No transaction with a single affiliate can exceed 10% of an institution's capital.




What Is the Limit of Transactions With All Affiliates?
All affiliate transactions may not exceed 20% of the institution's held capital.




Are There Exemptions From Regulation W Requirements?
Yes, Regulation W allows the Federal Reserve Bank to permit exemptions, but certain exemptions also require approval from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).


   The Bottom Line  

Regulation W—added to the Federal Reserve Bank’s “alphabet regulations” because it is the 23rd letter of the alphabet and the 23rd regulation—governs covered transactions between a bank and its affiliates. This is outlined in Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act.



Section 23A defines the kinds of companies that are bank affiliates. It stipulates the kinds of transactions covered by this statute. It also sets the quantifiable limitations on a bank’s covered transactions with any single affiliate; also with all collective affiliates. Finally, it outlines collateral requirements for specific bank transactions with affiliates.
What Is Regulation Z?  

Regulation Z is the Federal Reserve Board regulation that implemented the Truth in Lending Act of 1968, which was part of the Consumer Credit Protection Act of that same year. The act’s major goals were to provide consumers with better information about the true costs of credit and to protect them from certain misleading practices by the lending industry. Under these rules, lenders must disclose interest rates in writing, give borrowers the chance to cancel certain types of loans within a specified period, use clear language about loan and credit terms, and respond to complaints, among other provisions. The terms Regulation Z and Truth in Lending Act (TILA) are often synonymous.





Key Takeaways

Regulation Z protects consumers from misleading practices by the credit industry and provides them with reliable information about the costs of credit.It applies to home mortgages, home equity lines of credit, reverse mortgages, credit cards, installment loans, and certain kinds of student loans.It was established as part of the Consumer Credit Protection Act of 1968.


   How Regulation Z Works  

Regulation Z applies to many types of consumer credit. That includes home mortgages, home equity lines of credit, reverse mortgages, credit cards, installment loans, and certain kinds of student loans.



According to the Federal Reserve Board, the basic purpose of Regulation Z and TILA was “to ensure that credit terms are disclosed in a meaningful way so consumers can compare credit terms more readily and knowledgeably. Before its enactment, consumers were faced with a bewildering array of credit terms and rates.”





Note

Regulation Z is also known as the Truth in Lending Act.



To fix that problem, the law mandated standardized rules for calculating and disclosing loan costs that all lenders would be required to follow. For example, lenders must provide consumers with both the nominal interest rate on a loan or credit card and the annual percentage rate (APR), which takes into account both the nominal rate and any fees the borrower must pay. The APR represents a more realistic picture of the cost of borrowing and one that is directly comparable from lender to lender. The exact rules differ depending on what type of credit the lender is offering: open-end credit, as in the case of credit cards and home equity lines, or closed-end credit, such as auto loans or home mortgages.



In addition to standardizing how lenders were required to present their information, the law also put in place a set of financial reforms that, the Federal Reserve says, aimed to:



“Protect consumers against inaccurate and unfair credit billing and credit card practices;“Provide consumers with rescission rights;“Provide for rate caps on certain dwelling-secured loans; and“Impose limitations on home equity lines of credit and certain closed-end home mortgages.”



Rescission rights refer to the legal right of a borrower to cancel certain types of loans within a specified period after the loan has closed. In the case of Regulation Z and TILA, the period is three days.





Important

Certain types of loans are not subject to Regulation Z, including federal student loans, loans for business, commercial, agricultural, or organizational use, loans above a certain amount, loans for public utility services, and securities or commodities offered by the Securities and Exchange Commission.


   History of Regulation Z  

Regulation Z has been amended and expanded repeatedly since it came into existence, starting in 1970 when it was amended to prohibit credit issuers from mailing out unsolicited cards. In more recent years, it has added new rules regarding credit cards, adjustable-rate mortgages, mortgage servicing, and other aspects of consumer lending.





Note

Consumer leasing arrangements, including vehicle leasing and furniture leasing, are governed by federal Regulation M.



The 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act added multiple new provisions to Regulation Z and TILA, including prohibitions of mandatory arbitration and waivers of consumer rights. It also transferred the Federal Reserve Board’s rulemaking authority for TILA to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) as of July 2011.



Those rules have been added to and modified over time. According to the CFPB website, there have been 45 modifications since that transfer of authority affecting topics that include exemption thresholds for asset sizes and higher-priced mortgage loans, mortgage servicing rules, and mortgage disclosure requirements, to name just a few. Most recently, in December 2021, the CFPB issued final rules adjusting asset size exemption thresholds for certain first-lien higher-priced mortgage loans.





Tip

If a consumer has a complaint involving a lender, the CFPB is the place to lodge it.


   Who Enforces Regulation Z?  

The authority to enforce Regulation Z and the Truth In Lending Act lies with the Federal Trade Commission. The CFPB has the authority to make final rules related to Regulation Z. Under federal law, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency has the authority to require lenders to adjust and edit accounts of consumers in situations in which finance charges or the APR for a loan were disclosed inaccurately.


   Regulation Z Real Estate Example  

Regulation Z prohibits practices in which mortgage brokers and loan originators may receive compensation for referrals or "steering." So, say that you want to buy a home. You connect with a real estate agent, who then refers you to a specific mortgage lender. The agent receives no compensation for this referral.



The mortgage lender, meanwhile, could earn a commission by recommending a particular type of mortgage loan to you. Under Regulation Z, this is considered an unfair practice if that mortgage does not align with your best interests. If the mortgage lender pushes you into the loan while knowing that it doesn't necessarily fit your budget or needs solely for the purpose of collecting compensation, that could be considered a Regulation Z violation.




What Does Regulation Z Cover?
Regulation Z is part of the Truth in Lending Act of 1968. This regulatory measure applies to a variety of lending products, including home mortgages, home equity lines of credit, reverse mortgages, credit cards, installment loans, and certain types of student loans.




What Must Be Disclosed Under Regulation Z?
Federal Regulation Z requires mortgage issuers, credit card companies, and other lenders to provide consumers with written disclosure of important credit terms. The type of information that must be disclosed includes details about interest rates and how financing charges are calculated. Lenders are also prohibited from engaging in unfair practices, and they must respond promptly to customer complaints involving billing error disputes.




What Does Regulation Z Not Cover?
Regulation Z doesn't dictate loan terms, what type of loans lenders offer, or who can apply for loans. The law is designed to help ensure transparency in the lending and credit process by requiring lenders to provide certain disclosures to consumers, observe appropriate practices with regard to credit cards, resolve billing disputes in a timely manner, provide monthly billing statements to borrowers, notify borrowers when lending terms change, and avoid unfair practices in mortgage lending.




How Does Regulation Z Apply to Mortgages?
Regulation Z is designed to help and protect homebuyers by requiring lenders to disclose certain information while avoiding conflicts of interest. For example, mortgage lenders can't base their compensation on the terms of your mortgage loan or direct you to a mortgage product that would allow them to collect compensation unless that loan is in your best interest.


   The Bottom Line  

The Truth In Lending Act or Regulation Z is designed to protect consumers from unfair practices when taking out certain types of loans and lines of credit. Though you may not give much thought to how these regulations impact you, they can affect you directly if you apply for a mortgage or other types of loans.
What Is Regulatory Capture?  

Regulatory capture is an economic theory that says regulatory agencies may come to be dominated by the industries or interests they are charged with regulating. The result is that an agency, charged with acting in the public interest, instead acts in ways that benefit incumbent firms in the industry it is supposed to be regulating.





Key Takeaways

Regulatory capture is an economic theory that regulatory agencies may come to be dominated by the interests they regulate and not by the public interest.The result is that the agency instead acts in ways that benefit the interests it is supposed to be regulating.Industries devote large budgets to influencing regulators, while individual citizens spend only limited resources to advocate for their own rights.


   Understanding Regulatory Capture  

Regulatory capture, also known as “the economic theory of regulation” or simply “capture theory,” was introduced to the world in the 1970s by the late George Stigler, a Nobel laureate economist at the University of Chicago. Stigler noted that regulated industries maintain a keen and immediate interest in influencing regulators, whereas ordinary citizens are less motivated. As a result, even though the rules in question, such as pollution standards, often affect citizens in the aggregate, individuals are unlikely to lobby regulators to the degree that regulated industries do.



Regulated industries devote large budgets to influencing regulators at federal, state, and local levels. By contrast, individual citizens spend only limited resources to advocate for their own rights. This is an extension of the concept of concentrated benefits and dispersed costs of regulation, public policy, and collective action in general, described by economist Mancur Olsen.



In many cases, the regulators themselves come from the pool of industry experts and employees, in part due to the complex and specialized knowledge needed to regulate an industry, and may also then return to work in the industry after their government service. This is known as the revolving door between government and special interests. In some cases, industry leaders trade the promise of future jobs for regulatory consideration, making revolving doors criminally corrupt.



Regulatory agencies that come to be controlled by the industries they are charged with regulating are known as captured agencies, and agency capture occurs when that governmental body operates essentially as an advocate for the industries it regulates. Such cases may not be directly corrupt, as there is no quid pro quo; rather, the regulators simply begin thinking like the industries they regulate, due to heavy lobbying.






Even well-organized groups in favor of tougher regulations—such as the Sierra Club, a well-known environmental advocate—have only modest resources relative to industry interests.


   Examples of Regulatory Capture  

Regulatory capture is common across the economy and throughout history. Many argue that it is a ubiquitous tendency whenever any industry is regulated because even regulation that harms or imposes costs on existing firms also tends to create barriers to entry to new firms.



Regulation inherently tends to raise the cost of entry into a regulated market because new entrants have to bear not just the costs of entering the market but also of complying with the regulations. Oftentimes regulations explicitly impose barriers to entry, such as licenses, permits, and certificates of need, without which one may not legally operate in a market or industry. Incumbent firms may even receive legacy consideration by regulators, meaning that only new entrants are subject to certain regulations.



Regulatory capture can, in some cases, even result in deregulation of the behavior of the supposed subjects of the regulation themselves, while maintaining regulations that benefit them, such as barriers to entry, subsidies, and taxpayer bailout guarantees.


  Transportation  

The transportation industry in the U.S. can be considered a classic example of regulatory capture. In the late 19th century, as the industrial revolution created vast new wealth, government trade regulators openly advocated for the industries they oversaw, including railroads. Large railroad companies themselves advocated for regulation by the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) under the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887, and the ICC allowed the railroad industry to function as an effective cartel.


  Finance  

Modern financial regulatory bodies, likewise, tend to consist largely of industry insiders, have overlapping interests with industry, and act primarily in the interests of those whom they regulate. Financial market deregulation, at the behest of the industry, in the run-up to the financial crisis, combined with the retention of taxpayers guarantees for banks and the dramatic series of monetary and fiscal bailouts, are widely believed to have contributed greatly to the U.S. housing bubble and ensuing Great Recession of the late 2000s.


   Criticism of Regulatory Capture  

Some economists discount the significance of regulatory capture. They point out that many large industries that lobby regulators, such as industries in the fossil fuel sector, have experienced lower profits due to regulation. In other words, these economists argue that the lobbying efforts have failed to capture agencies.
What Is Regulatory Risk?  

Regulatory risk is the risk that a change in laws and regulations will materially impact a security, business, sector, or market. A change in laws or regulations made by the government or a regulatory body can increase the costs of operating a business, reduce the attractiveness of an investment, or change the competitive landscape in a given business sector. In extreme cases, such changes can destroy a company's business model.





Key Takeaways

Regulatory risk refers to the risk that a change to the laws or regulations will hurt a business or investment by affecting that business, sector, or market.While often necessary for the public good, government regulations can increase the cost of doing business or limit prospects for further growth, cutting into profits and hurting the return on investments.


   Understanding Regulatory Risk  

Virtually any business can face significant regulatory risk, given any government's power to compel businesses operating within its borders to follow its laws. Regulatory risks often materialize as a result of anger over a public harm caused by a business or business sector.



But even if new laws are never passed, business leaders are obligated to assess and monitor regulatory risks and be prepared to react if they do materialize. This can be time-consuming and expensive because regulatory risk stemming from even one issue can drag on for years.


   Examples of Regulatory Risk  

One sector facing significant regulatory risk in the area of antitrust enforcement is Big Tech, including Meta (formerly Facebook), Amazon, Google, and Apple. This is largely the result of a growing public backlash over their enormous and still-growing market power and social influence.



Past examples of regulatory risk that materialized include the introduction of the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which established more stringent accounting requirements and more severe criminal penalties for violating securities laws. It was passed following public outrage over multiple accounting scandals in the early 2000s, including those of Enron Corporation and WorldCom.



Another type of regulatory risk would be more stringent pollution standards for manufacturers or mileage requirements for automobile makers as a result of public concerns over climate change. In this case, the risk may not derive from wrongdoing by any business, but merely broader concern over the public good—in this case, the impact of climate change.


   Regulatory Risk vs. Compliance Risk  

Compliance risk is the risk that a company will have been determined to be in violation of already established laws or regulations. This can have many causes, including inadequate controls, negligence, human error. Ensuring that a business is capable of maintaining compliance and does so can be a source of significant expense. As with regulatory risk, managing compliance risk is an essential part of a business's overall risk management.



Managing regulatory risk involves forward-looking strategic thinking, as well as careful monitoring of public opinion and the regulatory process in a business's given sector. Compliance risk, on the other hand, involves knowledge of existing laws and regulations and a more systematic approach to verifying that the company is compliant with all of them.
What Is Rehypothecation?  

Rehypothecation is a practice whereby banks and brokers use, for their own purposes, assets that have been posted as collateral by their clients. Clients who permit rehypothecation of their collateral may be compensated either through a lower cost of borrowing or a rebate on fees.



In a typical example of rehypothecation, securities that have been posted with a prime brokerage as collateral by a hedge fund are used by the brokerage to back its own transactions and trades.





Key Takeaways

Rehypothecation occurs when the lender uses its rights to the collateral to participate in its own transactions, often with the hopes of financial gain.Hypothecation occurs when a borrower promises the right to an asset as a form of collateral in exchange for funds.Rehypothecation promotes leveraging assets, making one's portfolio riskier but having higher earning potential.Consumers can protect against rehypothecation by avoiding trading on margin and not allowing debtholders of theirs to transact using their collateral. Rehypothecation was a common practice until 2007, but hedge funds became much more wary about it in the wake of the Lehman Brothers collapse and subsequent credit crunch in 2008-09.


   Understanding Rehypothecation  

Rehypothecation was a common practice until 2007, but hedge funds became much more wary about it in the wake of the Lehman Brothers collapse and subsequent credit crunch in 2008-09. In the United States, rehypothecation of collateral by broker-dealers is limited to 140% of the loan amount to a client, under Rule 15c3-3 of the SEC.



Rehypothecation occurs when a lender uses an asset, supplied as collateral on a debt by a borrower, and applies its value to cover its own obligations. In order to do so, the lender may have access to a variety of assets promised as collateral including tangible assets and various securities. This innovative cycle of leveraging another party's assets as collateral generates a type of derivative that can expound positive results or bankrupt companies quickly should the strategy fail.



Most often, brokers rehypothecate assets as they need temporary working capital. These parties often have illiquid assets they own yet have operating requirements that demand cash. Clients must be aware of rehypothecation as it is technically their own assets that have been pledged for someone else's debt. This creates complicated creditor issues where an investors shares may longer be in their possession due to their custodian's default.






When assets have been rehypothecated, the original owner may turn into an unsecured credit and not reclaim assets during bankruptcy proceedings.


   Rehypothecation vs. Hypothecation  

Rehypothecation happens if a customer leaves a number of securities with a broker as a deposit, most often in a margin account, and the broker then uses the securities as a pledge for the margin on his own margin account or as backing for a loan.



Hypothecation occurs when a borrower promises the right to an asset as a form of collateral in exchange for funds. One common example occurs in the primary housing market, where a borrower uses the home he is purchasing as collateral for a mortgage loan.



Even though the borrower asserts a level of ownership over the property, the lender can seize the asset if payments are not made as required. Similar situations occur in other collateralized loans, such as a vehicle loan, as well as with the setup of margin accounts to support other trading actions.






With rehypothecation, the asset in question has been promised to an institution outside of the borrower’s original intent.



For example, if a piece of real estate functions as collateral on a mortgage loan and the lender pledges the asset to another financial institution in exchange for a loan, if the mortgage lender fails, the second financial institution may make a claim on the real estate.


   Protecting Against Rehypothecation  

There's a few ways individuals can protect against rehypothecation and preserve their claim to assets during liquidations. The most straightforward way relating to brokerage accounts is not open a margin account and utilize a cash account. This account should not be allowed to have any margin capability.



Although this type of account will be limited in what it can do, this account may only be able to place stock trades using buy or sell orders. It may also be able to purchase derivative products. However, you'll only be limited to the cash levels on hand within the account to cover settlements. These types of accounts can never face a margin call as there are no margin requirements to satisfy.



There may be cases where owners of assets may opt-in or opt-out of allowing a custodian to pledge their assets. In most cases, these types of agreements are baked into the service agreement of the company; if you do not agree, most often the company (especially if they are large and operate online) may not extend to you service. For one-off transactions in which you wish to protect your collateral, you may explicitly restrict rehypothecation of your collateral in the contract.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Rehypothecation  
  Pros of Rehypothecation  

Rehypothecation often makes it cheaper for individuals to incur debt. Borrowers who rehypothecate are often given rebates or lower costs of debt as opposed to traditional loans. Therefore, though there may be more risk, individuals often face less charges to raise capital.



This concept is especially important for financial institutions that rely on short-term working capital to thrive but financial securities to maximize profits. Banks, brokers, or other financial institutions may navigate a liquidity crunch and access capital by rehypothecating client funds. Not only can this leverage strategy introduce liquidity, it is conceptually a more efficient use of funds and promotes profitability.


  Cons of Rehypothecation  

The largest downside of rehypothecation is keeping potential customers in the dark. When banks or brokers rehypothecate, they may "go behind their clients backs" to use funds in the client's accounts. Some clients may not prefer that treatment of their assets, especially if they are risk adverse or do not want their assets misused for speculative endeavors.



There are also leverage considerations that increase that risk of default. Overleveraged investments often face covenants; when specific conditions are met, trading accounts may receive a margin call or face debt default. As a row of dominos fall after a single collapse, a single margin call may cause other debts to fail their account maintenance requirements, setting off a chain reaction that places the institution at higher risk of overall default.




Rehypothecation Pros and Cons

Pro

Often leads to lower costs to borrow funds
Helps promote efficient use of capital in markets and institutions
Generates higher profitability when rehypothecation is successful
Allows risk-seeking investors to leverage capital



Cons

Results in potentially not transparent practices
May be unsettling to customers who do not want their assets touched
Often increases the risk of default
May entice bad actors to misuse assets





   Examples of Rehypothecation  

Rehypothecation is often used in the financial sector, allowing traders and investors access to more liquid assets such as capital that can be directly invested in assets or securities of their choosing. For example, imagine a trader who owns 100 shares of Microsoft stock. If the investor wants to buy shares ofa different company but can not afford to so, they can open a margin account.



Using the margin account, the investor can post their Microsoft shares as collateral to take out a loan. Then, they can use those loan proceeds to buy more shares. In theory, the investor can continually post the most recently acquired shares as collateral, then secure financing against those assets.


  Real-World Example of Rehypothecation  

One of the more popular real examples of rehypothecation was the activity of MF Global and its bankruptcy. In 2011, MF Global made a speculative bet in Euro zone bonds. Financed via an off-balance sheet arrangement, it is suspected that MF Global essentially used client funds as collateral to then secure funds that were used to back its trades.



The benefit for customers is they are often incentivized by cheaper fees as the company may be able to pass along lower expenses to the client as they do not need to take out debt. One major regulation was limits up to the liability amount, and it is suspected that MF Global took advantage of international limits that were greater (or limitless) compared to that of the U.S.



When the securities failed and the trade collapsed, MF Global's $6.3 billion bet resulted in its clients having to fight over residual company assets. As MF Global's customers were unsecured creditors, they technically stood last in line for recovery during its bankruptcy proceedings.




How Is Rehypothecation Legal?
Rehypothecation is legal because it is often agreed to by clients. Clients may have to agree to terms in order to use a service. For example, when they deposit shares into a specific brokerage account, they may have agreed that the broker may do certain things to those shares. Second, rehypothecation. The same may be said about bank deposits; in order to open a bank account at an institution, the fine print may state that the firm is allowed to manage your funds as they see fit.




What Is Bitcoin Rehypothecation?
There is nothing unique about Bitcoin rehypothecation compared to other securities. Bitcoin rehypothecation is the act of leveraging the asset Bitcoin into debt that is used to finance future investments, though the party taking out the loan on the collateral does not own the Bitcoin. In this example, because Bitcoin is highly volatile, the investor is at greater default risk compared to other securities as a single margin call may unwind all of their positions.




How Much Can a Broker Rehypothecate?
In the United States, the Securities and Exchange Commission restricts rehypothecation to 140 percent of the loan amount. For example, if collateral of $300 is used to take out a loan for $100, $140 may be rehypothecated. As was seen in the MF Global bankruptcy, there are no rehypothecation limits in some other countries.


   The Bottom Line  

Rehypothecation is the practice where banks, brokers, or individuals use collateral that they do not own to help finance assets. Previously pledged collateral is used as collateral for a new loan, creating a leveraging cycle that promotes profitability but increases default risk. Consumers can avoid rehypothecation by avoiding margin accounts and restricting those who hold their collateral by using it in certain ways.
What Is Reimbursement?  

Reimbursement is compensation paid by an organization for out-of-pocket expenses incurred or overpayment made by an employee, customer, or another party. Reimbursement of business expenses, insurance costs, and overpaid taxes are common examples. However, unlike typical compensation, reimbursement is not subject to taxation.





Key Takeaways

Reimbursement is money paid to an employee or customer, or another party, as repayment for a business expense, insurance, taxes, or other costs. Business expense reimbursements include out-of-pocket expenses, such as those for travel and food. Per diem rates are daily rates paid to employees as reimbursement for business trips. Tax refunds are a form of reimbursement from the government to taxpayers.Organizations have a vested interest in ensuring that reimbursements are only provided for legitimate reasons.


   Understanding Reimbursement  

Reimbursement is most commonly associated with business expenses. Many companies have policies outlining when they will reimburse employees for out-of-pocket expenses. Typically, these expenses are related to travel and can include the costs associated with hotels, food, ground transportation, and flights (travel reimbursement).



Companies may also reimburse employees for other types of expenses, such as tuition reimbursement for college courses or continuing education classes.






Self-employed individuals can often reimburse themselves for business-related expenses too, and these may be tax-deductible with the IRS as well.


   Types of Reimbursement  
  Insurance  

Beyond business expenses, reimbursement is also used in the insurance industry. When a health insurance policyholder needs urgent medical attention, the policyholder is unlikely to have the time to contact the insurer to determine the extent to which the policy covers expenses. The policyholder may have to pay for medication, medical services, or related expenses out-of-pocket.﻿ 



Alternatively, the insurance policy may require that the policyholder cover certain expenses out-of-pocket before seeking reimbursement. This is common in the case of fitness reimbursement. An insurer may reimburse up to a certain amount each year if a policyholder pays for and actively participates in a fitness program at a qualified fitness center. In both cases, the party that paid for the expenses out-of-pocket can seek reimbursement from the insurance company for any incurred expenses covered under the insurance policy. 


  Taxes  

Reimbursement is also common with taxes paid to state and federal governments. Most income taxpayers have federal taxes withheld each pay period through payroll deductions, which does not take into account the credits that a taxpayer may be entitled to due to other taxes paid or expenditures made.﻿﻿ Contractors pay their taxes in quarterly estimated tax payments.﻿﻿ Tax refunds provided to the taxpayer by the government are a form of reimbursement, as the money being returned to the taxpayer is due to a previous overpayment.


  Legal  

A type of reimbursement called reimbursement alimony applies to the legal sector.﻿ Reimbursement alimony is ordered by a judge and is a payment made to an ex-spouse as reimbursement for time and money invested in the spouse's financial prospects and growth. A person in a divorce settlement who worked full time to support his or her spouse through college may be entitled to reimbursement alimony if the spouse has graduated and is now earning income.


   Requirements for Reimbursement  

In the U.S., companies often use the per diem rates created by the General Services Administration (GSA). The GSA compiles reimbursement rates for various cities and states. The company may also choose to use its own methodology to set per diem rates by taking the GSA per diem rate as a base point and adjusting it factoring in company-specific factors. 



For example, a company may want to set a higher reimbursement rate for executives or salespeople who entertain clients. Companies may also choose to provide employees with a fixed per diem rate.


   Special Considerations  

Organizations, whether businesses, insurers, or governments, have a vested interest in ensuring that reimbursements are only provided for legitimate reasons. Employees, insurance policyholders, and taxpayers can file for an expense that never occurred or inflate the value of an expense. This requires the reimbursing organization to develop internal control processes in an attempt to catch fraudulent reimbursement requests.



Another situation where a company could find itself reimbursing a fraudulent expense occurs in the banking industry. For example, if an account holder falls victim to identity theft or a data breach. In this case, the bank would run an investigation to ensure that the account was indeed compromised before it reimburses the client for any funds withdrawn from the account holder's debit or credit account.


   Example of Reimbursed Expenses  

Say that you are a sales representative who visits an industry conference in order to better understand the state-of-the-art for the industry, to attend educational seminars, and to professionally network. As a result of this approved trip, you spend out of your own money $300 for a hotel room, $250 for transportation, and $100 for food. Upon returning from your trip, you file an official expense report with the company citing each of these three line items and submitting it for $650 in reimbursed expenses. This sum shows up alongside your next paycheck in your bank account via direct deposit.


   Reimbursed FAQs  
  How Much Should I Be Reimbursed for Mileage?  

Depending on your arrangement with the company, up to all of your mileage expense may be reimbursed by your employer for qualified business trips. The IRS also has a defined mileage allowance to refer to the deductibility of expenses car owners accrue while operating a personal vehicle for business, medical, charity, or moving purposes. For 2021, the IRS suggests deducting $0.56 per mile for business use, $0.14 for charity use, and $0.16 for certain medical uses and moving (for 2020 it's $0.575, $0.14, and $0.17, respectively).


  How Do I Get Reimbursed From Medicaid?  

Every state administers Medicaid differently. Some states will reimburse patients for medical bills paid out-of-pocket. If so, their Medicaid information should be provided to their doctor. Not all health care providers accept Medicaid.


  How Do I Get Reimbursed From My HSA?  

If you incur an expense covered by your health savings account (HSA) you can reimburse yourself for the cost via electronic transfer or by writing yourself a check drawn from the HSA account. You may also be able to withdraw money from an ATM using an HSA-linked debit card.


  How Do I Get Reimbursed From Medicare?  

Out-of-pocket Medicare expenses are usually reimbursed by filing a claim. You can ask your health care provider to file the claim or you can do it yourself. Medicare then reimburses the medical costs directly to the service provider.
What Is Reinsurance?  

Reinsurance, often referred to as insurance for insurance companies, is a contract between a reinsurer and an insurer. In this contract, the insurance company—known as the ceding party or cedent—transfers some of its insured risk to the reinsurance company. The reinsurance company then assumes all or part of one or more insurance policies issued by the ceding party.





Key Takeaways

Reinsurance, or insurance for insurers, transfers risk to another company to reduce the likelihood of large payouts for a claim.Reinsurance allows insurers to remain solvent by recovering all or part of a payout.Companies that seek reinsurance are called ceding companies.Types of reinsurance include facultative, proportional, and non-proportional.


   How Reinsurance Works  

Reinsurance allows insurers to remain solvent by recovering some or all amounts paid out to claimants. Reinsurance reduces the net liability on individual risks and catastrophe protection from large or multiple losses.



The practice also provides ceding companies, those that seek reinsurance, the chance to increase their underwriting capabilities in number and size of risks. Ceding companies are insurance companies that pass their risk on to another insurer.


   Benefits of Reinsurance  

By covering the insurer against accumulated liabilities, reinsurance gives the insurer more security for its equity and solvency by increasing its ability to withstand the financial burden when unusual, major events occur.






Insurers are legally required to maintain sufficient reserves to pay all potential claims from issued policies.



Through reinsurance, insurers may underwrite policies covering a larger quantity or volume of risk without excessively raising administrative costs to cover their solvency margins. In addition, reinsurance makes substantial liquid assets available to insurers in the event of exceptional losses.


   Types of Reinsurance  

Facultative coverage protects an insurer for an individual or a specified risk or contract. If several risks or contracts need reinsurance, they are renegotiated separately. The reinsurer holds all rights for accepting or denying a facultative reinsurance proposal.



A reinsurance treaty is for a set period rather than on a per-risk or contract basis. The reinsurer covers all or part of the risks that the insurer may incur.


  Reinsurance Deconstructed  

Under proportional reinsurance, the reinsurer receives a prorated share of all policy premiums sold by the insurer. For a claim, the reinsurer bears a portion of the losses based on a pre-negotiated percentage. The reinsurer also reimburses the insurer for processing, business acquisition, and writing costs.  






With non-proportional reinsurance, the reinsurer is liable if the insurer's losses exceed a specified amount, known as the priority or retention limit.



In the case of non-proportional reinsurance, the reinsurer doesn't have a proportional share in the insurer's premiums and losses. The priority or retention limit is based either on one type of risk or an entire risk category.



Excess-of-loss reinsurance is a type of non-proportional coverage in which the reinsurer covers the losses exceeding the insurer's retained limit or surplus share treaty amount. This contract is typically applied to catastrophic events and covers the insurer either on a per-occurrence basis or for the cumulative losses within a set period.



Under risk-attaching reinsurance, all claims established during the effective period are covered, regardless of whether the losses occurred outside the coverage period. No coverage is provided for claims originating outside the coverage period, even if the losses occurred while the contract was in effect.




What Is Reinsurance?
Reinsurance is insurance for insurance companies. It’s a way of transferring some of the financial risk that insurance companies assume when insuring cars, homes, people, and businesses to another company, the reinsurer.




Why Should Insurance Companies Have Reinsurance?
Several common reasons that insurers obtain reinsurance include: expanding an insurance company's capacity, stabilizing its underwriting results, financing, gaining catastrophe protection, spreading an insurer's risk, and acquiring expertise.




What Types of Reinsurance Are There?
Reinsurance has two basic categories: treaty and facultative. Treaties are agreements that cover broad groups of policies, like all a primary insurer’s auto business. Facultative covers specific individual, generally high-value or hazardous risks, such as a hospital, that wouldn't be acceptable under a treaty.


   The Bottom Line  

Reinsurance, often called "insurance for insurance companies," results from a contract between a reinsurer and an insurer. In it, the insurance company—known as the ceding party or cedent—transfers some of its insured risk to the reinsurance company. As a result, the reinsurance company assumes some or all of the insurance policies issued by the ceding party. Having reinsurance transfers risk to another company to reduce the likelihood of being exposed to large payouts for one or more claims.
What Is Reinsurance Ceded?  

Reinsurance ceded is an insurance industry term that refers to the portion of risk that a primary insurer passes to another insurer. That other insurer is often a specialist in reinsurance. This practice allows the primary insurer to limit the overall risk exposure that it takes on with its clients.



The primary insurer is referred to as the ceding company while the reinsurance company is called the accepting company. The accepting company receives a premium, paid by the ceding company, in exchange for taking on the risk.



Reinsurance is sometimes called "stop-loss insurance." The practice allows an insurance company to put a cap on the maximum losses it may sustain in a worst-case scenario.





Key Takeaways

Reinsurance ceded is a process used by insurance companies to share portions of their coverage with other insurance companies in order to reduce the overall risk in their portfolios.The primary insurer essentially sub-contracts portions of responsibility for the coverage.The primary insurer remains the point of contact for the client.This process reduces the hazards of catastrophic claims, spreading the responsibility among two or more insurers.Reinsurance is a sub-industry of insurance, with many companies specializing in particular types of coverage.


   Understanding Reinsurance Ceded  

The reinsurance process allows insurance companies to protect themselves against the possibility of a claim for catastrophic damages that would be beyond their financial resources. A worst-case scenario like a major hurricane could otherwise be devastating. By offloading some portion of the overall risks they underwrite, the insurance company reduces its overall risk and is able to keep premium costs lower for all of its clients.



The agreement between the ceding company and the accepting company is called the reinsurance contract, and it covers all terms related to the ceded risk. The contract outlines the conditions under which the reinsurance company will pay out claims.



The accepting company pays a commission to the ceding company on the reinsurance ceded. This is called a ceding commission, and covers administrative costs, underwriting, and other related expenses. The ceding company can recover part of any claim from the accepting company.


  Biggest Names in Reinsurance  

Reinsurance is often written by a specialist reinsurance company. The biggest names globally in reinsurance include Swiss Re Ltd., Berkshire Hathaway Inc., and Reinsurance Group of America Inc.



Some reinsurance is handled by insurers internally—automobile insurance, for example—by diversifying the types of clients the company takes on. In other cases, such as liability insurance for a large international business, a specialty reinsurer may be necessary because diversification is not possible.






An insurer may multiply the ceding and reinsurance process to create a portfolio whose claims values fall below the premiums and investment income the company generates.


   Types of Reinsurance Contracts  

There are two types of reinsurance contracts used for reinsurance ceding: facultative reinsurance and the treaty reinsurance contract.


  Facultative Reinsurance  

In a facultative reinsurance contract, each type of risk that may be passed to the reinsurer in exchange for a premium is negotiated individually. The reinsurer can reject or accept individual parts of a contract proposed by the ceding company. or can accept or reject the contract in its entirety,


  Treaty Reinsurance  

With a treaty reinsurance contract, the ceding company and the accepting company agree on a broad set of insurance transactions that are covered by reinsurance.



For example, the ceding insurance company may cede all of the risks for flood damage, and the accepting company may accept all flood damage risks in a particular geographic area such as a floodplain.






Munich Re Group is the world's largest reinsurer, or recipient of ceded insurance, as of 2022, with net premiums of approximately $43.1 billion, according to Statista.


   Benefits of Reinsurance Ceded  

The insurance industry by definition is exposed to an unusual degree of risk. The process of reinsurance ceded keeps the industry stable. That is, it allows individual insurers to manage earnings volatility and maintain adequate capital reserves. In any business, those are keys to success.



Reinsurance also allows an insurer the freedom to underwrite policies that cover a larger volume of risks without excessively raising the costs of covering their solvency margins or the amount at which the assets of the insurance company, at fair values, exceed its liabilities and other comparable commitments.



Reducing risks through reinsurance frees up substantial liquid assets that an insurer needs to keep on hand in case of unexpected claims.



For the client, the reinsurance ceded process lifts an administrative burden. The client does not have to shop for multiple insurers to take on different types of risks or different levels of protection for its business operations. The process is handled among insurers,


   Challenges to Reinsurance Ceded  

Reinsurance contracts are negotiated on a case-by-case basis and have grown increasingly complex, according to Deloitte, a professional services advisory firm. In a report, Modernizing Reinsurance Administration, the company notes that many large insurers are taking on and administering literally thousands of reinsurance contracts. It argues that many companies have not adequately updated and integrated their data technology systems in order to handle these complex demands effectively.



The main challenge for the reinsurance industry is, of course, the utter unpredictability of catastrophic events. The COVID-19 pandemic, for example, presents an unprecedented challenge to certain specialty reinsurers such as those in the business of protecting against losses in the travel industry and the convention business.


   Regulation of Reinsurance Ceded  

The insurance industry in the U.S. is regulated mostly at the state level. That means that an insurance company must abide by the regulations of the individual states in which it does business. The responsibilities are multiplied, of course, in a global business environment.



The reinsurance industry, by contrast, is not as heavily regulated. Reinsurers do not deal directly with policyholders, so consumer protections do not necessarily apply.



Nevertheless, reinsurers must be licensed as insurers in each state in which they do business. They also must abide by the regulations and financial reporting requirements of each jurisdiction.


   Questions & Answers  


What Is the Difference Between Reinsurance Ceded and Reinsurance Assumed?
Reinsurance ceded and reinsurance assumed are the actions taken by the two parties involved in this type of contract between two insurance companies.Reinsurance ceded is the action taken by an insurer to pass off a portion of its obligation for coverage to another insurance company.Reinsurance assumed is the acceptance of that obligation by another insurance company.




What Is a Ceded Loss Ratio?
The loss ratio is a key metric for the insurance industry. It is the ratio of losses paid out to premiums paid in and is expressed as a percentage. It is a high-level snapshot of an insurance company's profitability.Ceded loss ratio, also called ceded reinsurance leverage, is an indication of how much of its risk (and how much of its premiums) an insurance company is passing off to reinsurers.




What Is the Difference Between Surplus Share Reinsurance and Quota Reinsurance?
Surplus share reinsurance and quota reinsurance are two types of agreement between an insurer and a reinsurer that define the responsibilities of each party.In a surplus share treaty, the primary insurer retains the liabilities of a contract up to a specific amount. The remainder is passed along to a reinsurer.A quota share treaty is essentially the reverse. The primary insurer passes along the responsibility for risks to a reinsurer, up to a certain limit. The primary insurer is responsible for losses exceeding that amount.
What Is Reinvestment?  

Reinvestment is the practice of using dividends, interest, or any other form of income distribution earned in an investment to purchase additional shares or units, rather than receiving the distributions in cash.





Key Takeaways

Reinvestment is when income distributions received from an investment are plowed back into that investment instead of receiving cash.Reinvestment works by using dividends received to purchase more of that stock, or interest payments received to buy more of that bond.Dividend reinvestment programs (DRIPs) automate the process of stock accumulation from dividend flows.Fixed income and callable securities open up the potential for reinvestment risk, where the new investments to be made with distributions are less opportune.


   Understanding Reinvestments  

Reinvestment is a great way to significantly increase the value of a stock, mutual fund, or exchange-traded fund (ETF) investment over time. It is facilitated when an investor uses proceeds distributed from the ownership of an investment to buy more shares or units of the same investment.



Proceeds can include any distribution paid out from the investment including dividends, interest, or any other form of distribution associated with the investment’s ownership. If not reinvested these funds would be paid to the investor as cash. Social enterprises mainly reinvest back into their own operations.﻿﻿


  Dividend Reinvestment  

Dividend reinvestment plans, also known as DRIPs, allow investors the opportunity to efficiently reinvest proceeds in additional shares of the investment. Issuers of an investment can structure their investment offerings to include dividend reinvestment programs.



Corporations commonly offer dividend reinvestment plans. Other types of companies with public offerings such as master limited partnerships and real estate investment trusts can also institute dividend reinvestment plans. Fund companies paying distributions also decide whether or not they will allow dividend reinvestment.



Investors investing in a stock that is traded on a public exchange will typically enter into a dividend reinvestment plan through their brokerage platform elections. When buying an investment through a brokerage platform, an investor has the option to reinvest dividends if dividend reinvestment is enabled for the investment.



If dividend reinvestment is offered, an investor can typically change their election with their brokerage firm any time during the duration of their investment. Reinvestment is typically offered with no commission and allows the investors to buy fractional shares of a security with the distributed proceeds.


  Income Investments  

Reinvestment is an important consideration for all types of investments and can specifically add to investment gains for income investors. Numerous income-focused investments are offered for both debt and equity investments. The Vanguard High Dividend Yield Fund (VHDYX) is one of the broad market’s top dividend mutual funds. It is an index fund that seeks to track the FTSE High Dividend Yield Index.﻿﻿ It offers investors the opportunity to reinvest all dividends in fractional shares of the fund.



Income investors choosing reinvestment should be sure to consider taxes when reinvesting paid distributions. Investors are still required to pay taxes on distributions regardless of whether or not they are reinvested.﻿﻿






Zero-coupon bonds are the only fixed-income instrument to have no investment risk since they issue no coupon payments.


   Special Considerations: Reinvestment Risk  

Although there are several advantages to reinvesting dividends, there are times when the risks outweigh the rewards. For example, consider the reinvestment rate, or the amount of interest that can be earned when money is taken out of one fixed-income investment and put into another. Essentially, the reinvestment rate is the amount of interest the investor could earn if they purchased a new bond while holding a callable bond called due because of an interest rate decline.



If an investor is reinvesting proceeds, they may need to consider reinvestment risk. Reinvestment risk is the chance that an investor will be unable to reinvest cash flows (e.g., coupon payments) at a rate comparable to the current investment's rate of return. Reinvestment risk can arise across all types of investments.



Generally, reinvestment risk is the risk that an investor could be earning a greater return by investing proceeds in a higher returning investment. This is commonly considered with fixed income security reinvestment since these investments have consistently stated rates of return that vary with new issuances and market rate changes. Prior to a significant investment distribution, investors should consider their current allocations and broad market investment options.



For example, an investor buys a 10-year $100,000 Treasury note with an interest rate of 6%. The investor expects to earn $6,000 per year from the security. However, at the end of the term, interest rates are 4%. If the investor buys another 10-year $100,000 Treasury note, they will earn $4,000 annually rather than $6,000. Also, if interest rates subsequently increase and they sell the note before its maturity date, they lose part of the principal.
What Is a Reinvestment Rate?  

The reinvestment rate is the amount of interest that can be earned when money is taken out of one fixed-income investment and put into another. For example, the reinvestment rate is the amount of interest the investor could earn if he purchased a new bond while holding a callable bond called due because of an interest rate decline.



Reinvestment rates are of particular concern to risk-averse investors who invest in Treasury bills (T-bills), Treasury bonds (T-bonds), municipal bonds, Certificates of Deposit (CDs), preferred stocks with a stated dividend rate, and other fixed-income investments. These investors—who are often retirees or close to retirement—rely on the steady income provided by their investments. While reinvesting in fixed-income securities is a common retirement portfolio strategy, it does have risks, such as interest rate risk.





Key Takeaways

The reinvestment rate is the return an investor expects to make after reinvesting the cash flows earned from a previous investment.The reinvestment rate is expressed as a percentage and represents the amount of interest that can be earned on a fixed-income investment.Reinvestment rates can be negatively affected by interest rate risk, which is the potential for investment losses resulting from changes in interest rates.Reinvestment rates can also be impacted by reinvestment risk, which is the potential the investor will be unable to reinvest cash flows at a rate comparable to their current rate of return.


   Understanding Reinvestment Rate  

The reinvestment rate is the return an investor expects to receive after reinvesting the cash flows from an investment. The return is expressed as a percentage and represents the anticipated profit the investor expects to make on the reinvestment of their money.



For example, take an investor who has purchased a 5-year CD with an interest rate of 2%. At the end of the term, the investor can reinvest their money in another CD at the going interest rate, they can take the cash without reinvesting, or they can reinvest in another kind of investment. If they choose to reinvest in a bond offering a 3.5% yield, then their reinvestment rate is 3.5%.


   Reinvestment and Interest Rate Risk  

Anticipated reinvestment rates play a role in an investor’s decisions about what term to select when purchasing a bond or Certificate of Deposit (CD). An investor who expects interest rates to rise might select a shorter-term investment under the assumption the reinvestment rate when the bond or CD matures will be higher than the interest rates that can be locked for longer-maturity investments.



When a bond is issued, and interest rates increase, an investor faces interest rate risk. Since bond prices fall when interest rates rise, an investor holding a fixed-rate bond may experience a capital loss if the bond is sold before its maturity date. The longer the time period until maturity, the greater the bond is subject to interest rate risk. Because a bondholder is given the face amount at maturity, bonds nearing the maturity date have little interest rate risk.






Investors can reduce interest rate risk by holding bonds of different durations and by hedging their investments with interest rate derivatives.


   Reinvestment Risk  

When interest rates decrease, the price of a fixed-rate bond increases. An investor may decide to sell a bond for a profit. Holding onto the bond may result in not earning as much interest income from reinvesting the periodic coupon payments. This is called reinvestment risk. When interest rates decline, interest payments on bonds also decrease. A bond’s yield to maturity declines, reducing the total income received.


   Reinvested Coupon Payments  

Instead of making coupon payments to the investor, some bonds reinvest the coupon into the bond, so it grows at a stated compound interest rate. When a bond has a longer maturity period, the interest on interest significantly increases the total return and might be the only method of realizing an annualized holding period return equal to the coupon rate. Calculating reinvested interest depends on the reinvested interest rate.



Reinvested coupon payments may account for up to 80% of a bond’s return to an investor. The exact amount depends on the interest rate earned by the reinvested payments and the time period until the bond’s maturity date. The reinvested coupon payment may be calculated by figuring the compounded growth of reinvested payments, or by using a formula when the bond’s interest rate and yield-to-maturity rate are equal.
What Is Reinvestment Risk?  

Reinvestment risk refers to the possibility that an investor will be unable to reinvest cash flows received from an investment, such as coupon payments or interest, at a rate comparable to their current rate of return. This new rate is called the reinvestment rate.



Zero-coupon bonds (Z-bonds) are the only type of fixed-income security to have no inherent investment risk since they issue no coupon payments throughout their lives.





Key Takeaways

Reinvestment risk is the chance that cash flows received from an investment will earn less when put to use in a new investment.Callable bonds are especially vulnerable to reinvestment risk because these bonds are typically redeemed when interest rates decline.Methods to mitigate reinvestment risk include the use of non-callable bonds, zero-coupon instruments, long-term securities, bond ladders, and actively managed bond funds.


   Understanding Reinvestment Risk  

Reinvestment risk is the likelihood that an investment's cash flows will earn less in a new security, creating an opportunity cost. It is the potential that the investor will be unable to reinvest cash flows at a rate comparable to their current rate of return.



For example, an investor buys a 10-year $100,000 Treasury note (T-note) with an interest rate of 6%. The investor expects to earn $6,000 per year from the security. However, at the end of the first year, interest rates fall to 4%.



If the investor buys another bond with the $6,000 received, they would receive only $240 annually rather than $360. Moreover, if interest rates subsequently increase and they sell the note before its maturity date, they stand to lose part of the principal.






In addition to fixed-income instruments such as bonds, reinvestment risk also affects other income-producing assets such as dividend-paying stocks.



Callable bonds are especially vulnerable to reinvestment risk. This is because callable bonds are typically redeemed when interest rates begin to fall. Upon redeeming the bonds, the investor will receive the face value, and the issuer has a new opportunity to borrow at a lower rate. If they are willing to reinvest, the investor will do so receiving a lower rate of interest.


   Managing Reinvestment Risk  

Investors may reduce reinvestment risk by investing in non-callable securities. Also, Z-bonds may be purchased since they do not make regular interest payments. Investing in longer-term securities is an option, too, since cash becomes available less frequently and does not need to be reinvested often.



A bond ladder, a portfolio of fixed-income securities with varying maturity dates, may help mitigate reinvestment risk as well. Bonds maturing when interest rates are low may be offset by bonds maturing when rates are high. The same type of strategy can be employed with certificates of deposits (CDs).






Investors can reduce reinvestment risk by holding bonds of different durations and by hedging their investments with interest rate derivatives.



Having a fund manager can help reduce reinvestment risk; therefore, some investors consider allocating money into actively managed bond funds. However, because bond yields fluctuate with the market, reinvestment risk still exists.


  Reinvested Coupon Payments  

Instead of making coupon payments to the investor, some bonds automatically reinvest the coupon paid back into the bond, so it grows at a stated compound interest rate. When a bond has a longer maturity period, the interest on interest significantly increases the total return and might be the only method of realizing an annualized holding period return equal to the coupon rate. Calculating reinvested interest depends on the reinvested interest rate.



Reinvested coupon payments may subsequently account for up to 80% of a bond’s return to an investor. The exact amount depends on the interest rate earned by the reinvested payments and the time period until the bond’s maturity date. The reinvested coupon payment may be calculated by figuring the compounded growth of reinvested payments, or by using a formula when the bond’s interest rate and yield-to-maturity rate are equal.


   Example of Reinvestment Risk  

Company A issues callable bonds with an 8% interest rate. Interest rates subsequently drop to 4%, presenting the company with an opportunity to borrow at a much lower rate.



As a result, the company calls the bonds, pays each investor their share of principal and a small call premium, and issues new callable bonds with a 4% interest rate. Investors may reinvest at the lower rate or seek other securities with higher interest rates.
What Is a Related-Party Transaction?  

The term related-party transaction refers to a deal or arrangement made between two parties who are joined by a preexisting business relationship or common interest. Companies often seek business deals with parties with whom they are familiar or have a common interest.



Although related-party transactions are themselves legal, they may create conflicts of interest or lead to other illegal situations. Public companies must disclose these transactions.





Key Takeaways

A related-party transaction is an arrangement between two parties that have a preexisting business relationship.Some, but not all, related party-transactions carry the innate potential for conflicts of interest, so regulatory agencies scrutinize them carefully.Unchecked, the misuse of related-party transactions could result in fraud and financial ruin for all parties involved.American regulatory bodies ensure that related-party transactions are conflict-free and do not affect shareholders' value or the corporation's profits negatively.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Related-Party Transactions  

It isn't uncommon for companies to do business with people and organizations with whom they already have relationships. This kind of business activity is called a related-party transaction. The most common types of related parties are business affiliates, shareholder groups, subsidiaries, and minority-owned companies. Related-party transactions can include sales, leases, service agreements, and loan agreements.



As mentioned above, these types of transactions are not necessarily illegal. But they can cloud the business environment by leading to conflicts of interest as they show favorable treatment for close associates of the hiring business. Consider a company that hires a major shareholder's business to renovate its offices. In some cases, related-party transactions must be approved by management consensus or a company’s board of directors. These transactions also limit competition in the marketplace.



In the United States, securities regulatory agencies help to ensure that related-party transactions are conflict-free and do not affect shareholders' value or the corporation's profits negatively. For instance, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requires that all publicly-traded companies disclose all transactions with related parties—such as executives, associates, and family members—in their quarterly 10-Q reports and their annual 10-K reports. As such, many companies have compliance policies and procedures in place that outline how to document and implement related-party transactions.






Related-party transactions must be reported transparently to ensure that all actions are legal and ethical and do not compromise shareholder value.


   Special Considerations  

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), which establishes accounting rules for public and private companies as well as nonprofits in the United States, has accounting standards for related-party transactions. Some of these standards include monitoring of payment competitiveness, payment terms, monetary transactions, and authorized expenses.



Although there are rules and standards for related-party transactions, they tend to be difficult to audit. Owners and managers are responsible for disclosing related parties and their interests, but if they withhold disclosure for personal gain, the transactions could go undetected. Transactions with related parties may be recorded among similar normal transactions, making them difficult to distinguish. Hidden transactions and undisclosed relationships could lead to improperly inflated earnings, even fraud.


   Example of Related-Party Transaction  

Enron was a U.S.-based energy and commodities company based in Houston. In the infamous scandal of 2001, the company used related-party transactions with special-purpose entities to help conceal billions of dollars in debt from failed business ventures and investments. The related parties misled the board of directors, their audit committee, employees, as well as the public. 



These fraudulent related-party transactions led to Enron's bankruptcy, prison sentences for its executives, lost pensions and savings of employees and shareholders, and the ruin and closure of Arthur Andersen, Enron's auditor, which was found guilty of federal crimes and SEC violations.



This financial disaster led to the development of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which established new and expanded existing requirements for U.S. public company boards, management, and public accounting firms, including specific rules that limit conflicts of interest arising from related-party transactions.




What Are Related-Parties?
Related parties include parent companies, subsidiaries, associate firms, joint ventures, or a company or entity that is controlled or significantly influenced or managed by a person who is a related party.




Which IFRS Regulation Covers Related Parties?
IFRS' IAS 24 covers related parties. The objective of IAS 24 is to ensure that an entity’s financial statements contain the disclosures necessary to draw attention to the possibility that its financial position and profit or loss may have been affected by the existence of related parties and by transactions and outstanding balances, including commitments, with such parties.




Does the IRS Need to Know About Related-Party Transactions?
Yes. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examines related-party transactions for any conflicts of interest. If it finds conflicts, the IRS will not allow any tax benefits claimed from the transaction. In particular, the IRS often scrutinizes property sales between related parties and deductible payments between related parties.
What Is Relationship Management?  

The term relationship management refers to a strategy in which an organization maintains an ongoing level of engagement with its audience and supply chain. This management can occur between a business and its customers, which is called business to consumer [B2C], or between a business and other businesses, which is referred to as business to business [B2B]. Relationship management aims to create a partnership between an organization and its patrons, instead of viewing the relationship as merely transactional. This is done through sales, service, and the analysis of data.





Key Takeaways

Relationship management is what an organization undertakes to establish and maintain engagement with its customers and business partners.Management can occur as business-to-customer or business-to-business.Relationship management can benefit from the use of data analytics and software.Companies often employ relationship managers to oversee their relationships.Relationship management can increase brand loyalty, spot inefficiencies, attract new customers and suppliers, and mitigate risk.


   How Relationship Management Works  

Businesses must establish and maintain good relationships with their business partners and their customers in order to succeed. This is done through relationship management. Relationship management involves strategies to build client support for a business and its offerings, and increase brand loyalty. Building a relationship most often occurs at the customer level, but it is valuable between businesses as well.



Building a relationship with clients yields rewards for all parties. Customers who feel that a company is responsive to their needs likely will continue to use that company's products and services. The same principle applies to relationships between businesses. Put simply, business partners are more likely to be loyal when there's a better connection between the two.



A company's reputation for responsiveness and generous post-sales involvement can often stimulate new sales. Maintaining communication with consumers lets a company identify potential problems before they come to a costly head.



A business may hire a relationship manager to oversee relationship building or it may combine this function with another marketing or human resources (HR) role. The role of a relationship manager requires analytical and communication skills. Professionals in smaller firms may handle both consumer and business relations. Larger companies may employ two different individuals to handle each.






There are four components to relationship management: customer retention, loyalty, profitability, and satisfaction. The first measures how many customers are loyal to the company. Loyalty is measured through repeated sales as well as referrals. The third refers to the total profit or loss earned by a company. Satisfaction is how well-received a company's goods and services are by its customers and suppliers.


   Types of Relationship Management  

As noted above, businesses have different relationship management options available to them based on the subject. The first is business-to-consumer while the other is business-to-business. We've highlighted the basics of each below.


  Customer Relationship Management (CRM)  

Business-to-customer or B2C businesses rely on customer relationship management (CRM) tools to build a solid rapport with their customers. CRM involves a significant amount of data and sales analysis as it seeks to understand market trends, the economic landscape, and consumer tastes. CRM also can include marketing techniques and a post-sales support program.



A CRM program typically consists of written media (such as sales announcements, newsletters, and post-sale surveys), video media communication (such as commercials), and tutorials. Ongoing marketing is critical to a business, as it is more costly to acquire a new customer than it is to maintain a current customer. Marketing helps a business to gauge consumers' interests and needs and develop campaigns to maintain loyalty.


  Business Relationship Management  

Business relationship management, which is also called B2B management, promotes a positive and productive relationship between a company and its business partners. As such, business-to-business relationships occur with vendors, suppliers, distributors, and other associates. These relationships can also benefit from relationship management.



BRM seeks to build trust, solidify rules and expectations, and establish boundaries. It also can help with dispute resolutions, contract negotiations, cross-sale opportunities, and controlling risk. For instance, companies that have a long-standing relationship with their suppliers may be able to negotiate a better price for supplies for quicker delivery. And having a good relationship may help increase payment times to them from, say, 30 to 45 days.


   Why Is Relationship Management Important?  

The obvious answer to this question is that relationship management builds and strengthens new and existing relationships with customers and business partners. This can help increase brand loyalty and lead to greater efficiencies.



Relationship management can help attract new customers, vendors, and suppliers, thereby increasing a company's reputation and profitability. This can often come through visibility or word-of-mouth from existing partners.



Another key benefit to relationship management is the way it can reduce risks. By using data analytics, special software, and other tools, relationship managers can look for weaknesses (and inefficiencies) in their supply chains. This gives them the option to look for new suppliers or find ways to improve their existing relationships.




What Is the Main Purpose of Relationship Management?
Relationship management is a process that companies use to manage and make effective use of their client and supplier relationships. The process involves analyzing data and using software to attract new relationships, increase and protect brand loyalty, identify inefficiencies, mitigate risk, and boost profitability.




Why Do Companies Use Relationship Management?
Companies use relationship management for many reasons. Relationship management refers to a strategy that helps them establish new and maintain existing relationships with customers and suppliers. Doing so allows them to increase brand loyalty, find and deal with inefficiencies, attract new relationships, and increase profitability. It also helps them mitigate risks by identifying weaknesses in supply chains.




How Do You Improve Relationship Management?
There are several ways companies can improve their relationship management. These include establishing and outlining clear goals. Companies can also use special tools and software to analyze data and provide/invite feedback to customers and suppliers. Training and developing staff is also a key driver to improve relationship management. But perhaps the most obvious choice is to hire a relationship manager who is responsible for analyzing inputs, communicating with those on both sides, and delegating tasks.


   The Bottom Line  

There's a lot more to success than simply having a good product, service, or brand name. Sure, these may attract a few new customers and suppliers, but is it enough to retain them? Companies should employ some form of relationship management in order to ensure their success. This is a strategy used to attract and retain new customers and suppliers, boost brand loyalty, increase profitability, find inefficiencies, and mitigate risk. Some companies use special tools like software while others do so by hiring a dedicated individual known as a relationship manager.
What Is a Relationship Manager?  

Relationship managers work to improve business relationships with partner firms and clients. Relationship management is generally divided into two fields: client relationship management and business relationship management. Both fields share the common goal of facilitating good relationships so businesses can maximize the value of those relationships and maintain a good reputation.





Key Takeaways

Through direct and indirect means, relationship managers help firms improve relationships with clients and partners.Relationship management has two areas of focus: clients and business partners.Relationship managers use data to look for trends and problems and analyze communications, contracts, and negotiations. The insights are used to refine company practices.


   Understanding Relationship Managers  

Good relationship management is about communication, conflict management, and people skills as much as it is about the technical aspects of a particular business or industry. Professionals in this role may have a bachelor's or master's degree in business, but they also might have an undergraduate degree or postgraduate degree in marketing or communications.



Strong communication and coordination skills are needed for facilitating better relationships with clients and other partners. It's also common for relationship managers to work closely with customer-facing staff to help them better understand clients’ needs and motivate them to provide the highest service standards.



In addition to communication skills, relationship managers need strong analytical skills to develop a deep understanding of the products or services being sold, the markets in which they are being sold, and broader industry trends. The better they understand the technical aspects of the business, the better and more efficient they can be communicating with clients or partners or helping staff meet the needs of clients or partners.


   Types of Relationship Managers  

At smaller firms, relationship managers may be responsible for overseeing aspects of both business relationships and client relationships. However, at larger firms, relationship managers are likely to specialize in one area or the other.






A key role of relationship managers is to help businesses differentiate themselves from competitors.


  Client Relationship Managers  

The goal of client relationship managers is to build a culture of relationships with clients based on trust and value and not only on price. This helps create strong barriers to competition. Clients who know they can trust a particular business are more likely to return even if a less familiar or less trusted competitor offers a lower price.



Client relationship managers work with senior executives, sales managers, technical managers, finance directors, and others who make or influence sales decisions. They also may work directly with clients to address problems or overcome other obstacles.



Client relationship managers also monitor industry trends in order to identify new sales opportunities and to brief the product development and sales teams to meet client needs. They use the data they collect to establish revenue targets and identify the resources needed to meet them. Research also is important to analyze competitor trends and assess potential threats to the firm's relationships with clients.



Another role for client relationship managers is to organize training, planned maintenance, and other services to help clients get better and more efficient use from products or services. They also might help set up online ordering and payment systems that simplify the commercial arrangements with clients.


  Business Relationship Managers  

Business relationship managers oversee the internal communication of business units within a larger corporation or with suppliers and other outside entities. They oversee teams that monitor purchases, budgeting, and cost factors and provide valuable information across business units to use resources efficiently and execute company standards.



This job involves tracking data related to how the business interacts with service suppliers, raw material providers, and other partners. Business relationship managers look for trends, handle problems, and analyze communications, contracts, and negotiations. They use the information to refine company practices.



Helping firms to maintain positive reputations in their communities is another important role business relationship managers play. Businesses that are viewed as positive contributors to the community are better able to attract clients and business partners. This means building positive relationships with local municipalities or downtown development authorities is as important a part of the role of building relationships with other business partners.
What Is Relative Purchasing Power Parity (RPPP)?  

Relative purchasing power parity (RPPP) is an expansion of the traditional purchasing power parity (PPP) theory to include changes in inflation over time. Purchasing power is the power of money expressed by the number of goods or services that one unit can buy, and which can be reduced by inflation. RPPP suggests that countries with higher rates of inflation will have a devalued currency.





Key Takeaways

Relative purchasing power parity (RPPP) is an economic theory that states that exchange rates and inflation rates (price levels) in two countries should equal out over time.Relative PPP is an extension of absolute PPP in that it is a dynamic (as opposed to static) version of PPP.While PPP is useful in understanding macroeconomics in theory, in practice RPPP does not seem to hold true over short time horizons.


   Understanding Relative Purchasing Power Parity (RPPP)  

​​​​​​​According to relative purchasing power parity (RPPP), the difference between the two countries’ rates of inflation and the cost of commodities will drive changes in the exchange rate between the two countries.



RPPP expands on the idea of purchasing power parity and complements the theory of absolute purchasing power parity (APPP). The APPP concept declares that the exchange rate between the two nations will be equal to the ratio of the price levels for those two countries, and APPP is discussed later in this article.


   Purchasing Power Parity in Theory  

Purchasing power parity (PPP) is the idea that goods in one country will cost the same in another country, once their exchange rate is applied. According to this theory, two currencies are at par when a market basket of goods is valued the same in both countries.



The comparison of prices of identical items in different countries will determine the PPP rate; however, an exact comparison is difficult due to differences in product quality, consumer attitudes, and economic conditions in each nation. Also, purchasing power parity is a theoretical concept that may not be true in the real world, especially in the short run.






In 2023, the purchasing power index of the United States is 115.7.


   Dynamics of Relative Purchasing Power Parity (RPPP)  

RPPP is essentially a dynamic form of PPP, as it relates the change in two countries’ inflation rates to the change in their exchange rate. The theory holds that inflation will reduce the real purchasing power of a nation's currency. Thus if a country has an annual inflation rate of 10%, that country's currency will be able to purchase 10% less real goods at the end of one year.



RPPP also complements the theory of absolute purchasing power parity (APPP), which maintains that the exchange rate between two countries will be identical to the ratio of the price levels for those two countries.



This concept comes from a basic idea known as the law of one price. This theory states that the real cost of a good must be the same across all countries after the consideration of the exchange rate.


   Example of Relative Purchasing Power Parity (RPPP)  

Suppose that over the next year, inflation causes average prices for goods in the U.S. to increase by 3%. In the same period, prices for products in Mexico increased by 6%. We can say that Mexico has had higher inflation than the U.S. since prices there have risen faster by three points.



According to the concept of relative purchase power parity, that three-point difference will drive a three-point change in the exchange rate between the U.S. and Mexico. So we can expect the Mexican peso to depreciate at the rate of 3% per year, or that the U.S. dollar should appreciate at the rate of 3% per year.


   Limitations of RPPP  

Users of RPPP information must be mindful of several limitations in the inherent process of calculating RPPP. Some of the limitations include:



Inaccurate Assumption of Perfect Competition. RPPP assumes perfect competition in all markets which is often not the case in the real world. Imperfect competition, market distortions, and barriers to trade can lead to deviations from RPPP.Inaccurate Assumptions that Goods Are Homogeneous. RPPP assumes that goods and services are identical across countries, which is rarely true in reality. Differences in product quality, branding, and consumer preferences can affect price levels.Excluded Transport Costs and Trade Barriers: RPPP does not consider transportation costs or trade barriers, which can significantly impact the prices of internationally traded goods and create deviations from parity.Not All Goods Are Tradeable: RPPP focuses on tradable goods and services, but many items are not easily traded across borders (e.g., housing, local services). These non-traded goods can create disparities in price levels.Limited Data and Timing: Accurate and timely data on price levels can be challenging to obtain, especially in developing countries, making it difficult to apply RPPP accurately.






Exchange rates can also be influenced by speculative trading and market sentiment; therefore, actual exchange rates may deviate from RPPP calculations.


   RPPP vs. APPP  

There's a couple of differences between relative purchasing power parity and absolute purchasing power parity (APPP). First, PPP is primarily concerned with comparing the relative price levels of two or more countries to determine their exchange rates. Absolute PPP is a simpler concept that focuses on the absolute price levels within a single country.



Second, PPP suggests that exchange rates should adjust over time to equalize the purchasing power of currencies, allowing for a more accurate representation of the real exchange rate. APPP implies that exchange rates should be fixed or constant based on the ratio of absolute price levels between two countries.



Last, PPP takes into account changes in price levels over time while APPP does not. Because APP assumes that exchange rates should always be at a constant ratio, it does not account for inflation.




What Is the Formula for Purchasing Power Parity?
The formula for purchasing power parity (PPP) is Cost of Good X in Currency 1 / Cost of Good X in Currency 2. This allows an individual to make comparisons of currencies and the value of a basket of goods they can buy.




What Country Has the Highest Purchasing Power?
According to the crowdsourced database Numbeo, Luxembourg has the highest purchasing power with a purchasing power index number of 127.1 in 2023. Other top countries include Qatar (123.6), United Arab Emirates (123.4), and Switzerland (118.7). The lowest country in 2023 is Nigeria (8.4).




Why Is Purchasing Power Parity Important?
Purchasing power parity is important because it allows economists to compare two different economies, primarily the economic productivity and the standard of living among nations. It seeks to equalize currencies to determine the value of a basket of goods.


   The Bottom Line  

Relative purchasing power parity is an economic theory that suggests exchange rates between two countries' currencies should adjust over time to reflect differences in their price levels. According to PPP, if one country experiences higher inflation than another, its currency should depreciate to maintain the same purchasing power across borders, promoting equilibrium in international trade.
What Is Relative Strength?  

Relative strength is a strategy used in momentum investing and in identifying value stocks. It focuses on investing in stocks or other investments that have performed well relative to the market as a whole or to a relevant benchmark. For example, a relative strength investor might select technology companies that have outperformed the Nasdaq Composite Index, or stocks that are outperforming the S&P 500 index.



Technical analysts use an indicator known as the relative strength index (RSI) to generate overbought or oversold signals.





Key Takeaways

Relative strength is a type of momentum investing used by technical analysts and value investors.It consists of selecting investments that have been outperforming their market or benchmark.Relative strength investors assume that the trend of outperformance will continue. If the trend reverses, their investment will likely perform poorly.


   Understanding Relative Strength  

While the goal of value investing is to buy low and sell high, the goal of relative strength investing is to buy high and sell even higher. As such, relative strength investors assume that the trends currently displayed by the market will continue for long enough to allow them to realize a positive return. Any sudden reversal of that trend will lead to negative results.



To identify investment candidates, relative strength investors begin by observing a benchmark such as the Nasdaq Composite Index. They will then look to see which companies within that market have outperformed their peers, either by rising more rapidly than their peers or by falling less rapidly than them.



Because relative strength investing assumes that present trends will continue into the future, it is most effective in stable periods with minimal disruption. By contrast, chaotic periods such as the 2007–2008 financial crisis can be dangerous for relative strength investors because they can lead to sharp reversals of investment trends. In those situations, investor psychology can suddenly reverse, with yesterday's investment darlings suddenly being shunned.



Although momentum investing is often associated with individual stocks, it can also be applied to whole markets or industry sectors using index funds and exchange traded funds (ETFs). Similarly, investors can make relative strength investments in other asset classes, such as in real estate, using real estate investment trusts (REITs). More exotic instruments, such as commodity futures, options, and other derivative products, can also be used.





Strategies Employing Relative Strength

Relative strength investing can also be used as one component of a larger strategy, such as pairs trading.


   Real-World Example of Relative Strength  

Harry is a relative strength investor who keeps a close eye on corporate bond prices and the S&P 500. His investment portfolio consists of an S&P 500 index fund and an ETF that tracks the corporate bond market. As a relative strength investor, he periodically increases his allocation toward whichever asset is outperforming at that time. In doing so, he hopes to benefit from the continuing trend of that asset's outperformance, effectively buying high and selling higher.



In recent months, he has noticed that investors seem to be increasing their portfolio bond allocations at the expense of stocks. This inflow of money into the bond market has been raising bond prices and lowering yields.



Expecting this trend to continue, Harry responds by decreasing his investment in the S&P 500 and increasing his investment in the corporate bond ETF. He hopes to benefit from any ongoing outperformance of bonds relative to stocks.


   Relative Strength Index (RSI)  

Short-term and technical traders also look at relative strength. In technical analysis, the relative strength index (RSI) is a momentum indicator that measures the magnitude of recent price changes to evaluate overbought or oversold conditions in the price of a stock or other asset. The RSI is displayed as an oscillator (a line graph that moves between two extremes) and can have a reading from 0 to 100. The indicator was originally developed by J. Welles Wilder Jr. and introduced in his seminal 1978 book, "New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems."



Traditional interpretation and usage of the RSI are that values of 70 or above indicate that a security is becoming overbought or overvalued and may be primed for a trend reversal or corrective pullback in price. An RSI reading of 30 or below indicates an oversold or undervalued condition.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021
What Is the Relative Strength Index (RSI)?  

The relative strength index (RSI) is a momentum indicator used in technical analysis. RSI measures the speed and magnitude of a security's recent price changes to evaluate overvalued or undervalued conditions in the price of that security.



The RSI is displayed as an oscillator (a line graph) on a scale of zero to 100. The indicator was developed by J. Welles Wilder Jr. and introduced in his seminal 1978 book, New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems.



The RSI can do more than point to overbought and oversold securities. It can also indicate securities that may be primed for a trend reversal or corrective pullback in price. It can signal when to buy and sell. Traditionally, an RSI reading of 70 or above indicates an overbought situation. A reading of 30 or below indicates an oversold condition.





Key Takeaways

The relative strength index (RSI) is a popular momentum oscillator introduced in 1978.The RSI provides technical traders with signals about bullish and bearish price momentum, and it is often plotted beneath the graph of an asset’s price.An asset is usually considered overbought when the RSI is above 70 and oversold when it is below 30.The RSI line crossing below the overbought line or above oversold line is often seen by traders as a signal to buy or sell.The RSI works best in trading ranges rather than trending markets.


   How the Relative Strength Index (RSI) Works  

As a momentum indicator, the relative strength index compares a security's strength on days when prices go up to its strength on days when prices go down. Relating the result of this comparison to price action can give traders an idea of how a security may perform. The RSI, used in conjunction with other technical indicators, can help traders make better-informed trading decisions.


  Calculating RSI  

The RSI uses a two-part calculation that starts with the following formula:





R


S



I


step one



=


100


−



[



100



1


+



Average gain


Average loss





]




RSI_{\text{step one}} = 100- \left[ \frac{100}{ 1 + \frac{\text{Average gain}}{\text{Average loss} }} \right]


RSIstep one​=100−[1+Average lossAverage gain​100​]
The average gain or loss used in this calculation is the average percentage gain or loss during a look-back period. The formula uses a positive value for the average loss. Periods with price losses are counted as zero in the calculations of average gain. Periods with price increases are counted as zero in the calculations of average loss.The standard number of periods used to calculate the initial RSI value is 14. For example, imagine the market closed higher seven out of the past 14 days with an initial average gain of 1%. The remaining seven days all closed lower with an initial average loss of −0.8%.
The first calculation for the RSI would look like the following expanded calculation:





55.55


=


100


−



[



100



1


+




(




1


%



14



)




(




0.8


%



14



)






]




55.55 = 100 - \left [ \frac {100 }{ 1 + \frac{ \left ( \frac{ 1\% }{ 14 } \right) }{ \left( \frac{ 0.8\% }{ 14 } \right)} } \right ]


55.55=100−​1+(140.8%​)(141%​)​100​​
Once there are 14 periods of data available, the second calculation can be done. Its purpose is to smooth the results so that the RSI only nears 100 or zero in a strongly trending market.





R


S



I


step two



=


100


−



[



100



1


+





(


Previous Average Gain


×


13


)



 


+


 Current Gain




(



(


Previous Average Loss


×


13


)



 


+


 Current Loss


)






]




RSI_{\text{step two}} = 100 - \left [ \frac{ 100 }{ 1 + \frac{ \left ( \text{Previous Average Gain} \times 13 \right ) \ + \ \text{Current Gain} }{ \left ( \left ( \text{Previous Average Loss} \times 13 \right ) \ + \ \text{Current Loss} \right ) } } \right ]


RSIstep two​=100−[1+((Previous Average Loss×13) + Current Loss)(Previous Average Gain×13) + Current Gain​100​]


  Plotting RSI  

After the RSI is calculated, the RSI indicator can be plotted beneath an asset’s price chart, as shown below. The RSI will rise as the number and size of up days increase. It will fall as the number and size of down days increase.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2021



As you can see in the above chart, the RSI indicator can stay in the overbought region for extended periods while the stock is in an uptrend. The indicator may also remain in oversold territory for a long time when the stock is in a downtrend. This can be confusing for new analysts, but learning to use the indicator within the context of the prevailing trend will clarify these issues.






   Why Is RSI Important?  

Traders can use RSI to predict the price behavior of a security.It can help traders validate trends and trend reversals.It can point to overbought and oversold securities.It can provide short-term traders with buy and sell signals.It's a technical indicator that can be used with others to support trading strategies.


   Using RSI With Trends  
  Modify RSI Levels to Fit Trends  

The primary trend of the security is important to know to properly understand RSI readings. For example, well-known market technician Constance Brown, CMT, proposed that an oversold reading by the RSI in an uptrend is probably much higher than 30. Likewise, an overbought reading during a downtrend is much lower than 70.



As you can see in the following chart, during a downtrend, the RSI peaks near 50 rather than 70. This could be seen by traders as more reliably signaling bearish conditions.



Many investors create a horizontal trendline between the levels of 30 and 70 when a strong trend is in place to better identify the overall trend and extremes.



On the other hand, modifying overbought or oversold RSI levels when the price of a stock or asset is in a long-term horizontal channel or trading range (rather than a strong upward or downward trend) is usually unnecessary.



The relative strength indicator is not as reliable in trending markets as it is in trading ranges. In fact, most traders understand that the signals given by the RSI in strong upward or downward trends often can be false.


  Use Buy and Sell Signals That Fit Trends  

A related concept focuses on trade signals and techniques that conform to the trend. In other words, using bullish signals primarily when the price is in a bullish trend and bearish signals primarily when a stock is in a bearish trend may help traders to avoid the false alarms that the RSI can generate in trending markets.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2021


   Overbought or Oversold  

Generally, when the RSI indicator crosses 30 on the RSI chart, it is a bullish sign and when it crosses 70, it is a bearish sign. Put another way, one can interpret that RSI values of 70 or above indicate that a security is becoming overbought or overvalued. It may be primed for a trend reversal or corrective price pullback. An RSI reading of 30 or below indicates an oversold or undervalued condition.



Overbought refers to a security that trades at a price level above its true (or intrinsic) value. That means that it's priced above where it should be, according to practitioners of either technical analysis or fundamental analysis. Traders who see indications that a security is overbought may expect a price correction or trend reversal. Therefore, they may sell the security.



The same idea applies to a security that technical indicators such as the relative strength index highlight as oversold. It can be seen as trading at a lower price than it should. Traders watching for just such an indication might expect a price correction or trend reversal and buy the security.


   Interpretation of RSI and RSI Ranges  

During trends, the RSI readings may fall into a band or range. During an uptrend, the RSI tends to stay above 30 and should frequently hit 70. During a downtrend, it is rare to see the RSI exceed 70. In fact, the indicator frequently hits 30 or below.



These guidelines can help traders determine trend strength and spot potential reversals. For example, if the RSI can’t reach 70 on a number of consecutive price swings during an uptrend, but then drops below 30, the trend has weakened and could be reversing lower. 



The opposite is true for a downtrend. If the downtrend is unable to reach 30 or below and then rallies above 70, that downtrend has weakened and could be reversing to the upside. Trend lines and moving averages are helpful technical tools to include when using the RSI in this way.






Be sure not to confuse RSI and relative strength. The first refers to changes in the the price momentum of one security. The second compares the price performance of two or more securities.


   Example of RSI Divergences  

An RSI divergence occurs when price moves in the opposite direction of the RSI. In other words, a chart might display a change in momentum before a corresponding change in price.



A bullish divergence occurs when the RSI displays an oversold reading followed by a higher low that appears with lower lows in the price. This may indicate rising bullish momentum, and a break above oversold territory could be used to trigger a new long position.



A bearish divergence occurs when the RSI creates an overbought reading followed by a lower high that appears with higher highs on the price.



As you can see in the following chart, a bullish divergence was identified when the RSI formed higher lows as the price formed lower lows. This was a valid signal, but divergences can be rare when a stock is in a stable long-term trend. Using flexible oversold or overbought readings will help identify more potential signals.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2021


   Example of Positive-Negative RSI Reversals  

An additional price-RSI relationship that traders look for is positive and negative RSI reversals. A positive RSI reversal may take place once the RSI reaches a low that is lower than its previous low at the same time that a security's price reaches a low that is higher than its previous low price. Traders would consider this formation a bullish sign and a buy signal.



Conversely, a negative RSI reversal may take place once the RSI reaches a high that is higher that its previous high at the same time that a security's price reaches a lower high. This formation would be a bearish sign and a sell signal.


   Example of RSI Swing Rejections  

Another trading technique examines RSI behavior when it is reemerging from overbought or oversold territory. This signal is called a bullish swing rejection and has four parts:



The RSI falls into oversold territory.The RSI crosses back above 30.The RSI forms another dip without crossing back into oversold territory.The RSI then breaks its most recent high.



As you can see in the following chart, the RSI indicator was oversold, broke up through 30, and formed the rejection low that triggered the signal when it bounced higher. Using the RSI in this way is very similar to drawing trend lines on a price chart.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2021



There is a bearish version of the swing rejection signal that is a mirror image of the bullish version. A bearish swing rejection also has four parts:



The RSI rises into overbought territory.The RSI crosses back below 70.The RSI forms another high without crossing back into overbought territory.The RSI then breaks its most recent low.



The following chart illustrates the bearish swing rejection signal. As with most trading techniques, this signal will be most reliable when it conforms to the prevailing long-term trend. Bearish signals during downward trends are less likely to generate false alarms.












Image by Sabrina Jiang Â© Investopedia 2021


   The Difference Between RSI and MACD  

The moving average convergence divergence (MACD) is another trend-following momentum indicator that shows the relationship between two moving averages of a security’s price. The MACD is calculated by subtracting the 26-period exponential moving average (EMA) from the 12-period EMA. The result of that calculation is the MACD line.



A nine-day EMA of the MACD, called the signal line, is then plotted on top of the MACD line. It can function as a trigger for buy and sell signals. Traders may buy the security when the MACD crosses above its signal line and sell, or short, the security when the MACD crosses below the signal line.



The RSI was designed to indicate whether a security is overbought or oversold in relation to recent price levels. It's calculated using average price gains and losses over a given period of time. The default time period is 14 periods, with values bounded from 0 to 100.



The MACD measures the relationship between two EMAs, while the RSI measures price change momentum in relation to recent price highs and lows. These two indicators are often used together to provide analysts with a more complete technical picture of a market.



These indicators both measure the momentum of an asset. However, they measure different factors, so they sometimes give contradictory indications. For example, the RSI may show a reading above 70 for a sustained period of time, indicating a security is overextended on the buy side.



At the same time, the MACD could indicate that buying momentum is still increasing for the security. Either indicator may signal an upcoming trend change by showing divergence from price (the price continues higher while the indicator turns lower, or vice versa).


   Limitations of the RSI  

The RSI compares bullish and bearish price momentum and displays the results in an oscillator placed beneath a price chart. Like most technical indicators, its signals are most reliable when they conform to the long-term trend.



True reversal signals are rare and can be difficult to separate from false alarms. A false positive, for example, would be a bullish crossover followed by a sudden decline in a stock. A false negative would be a situation where there is a bearish crossover, yet the stock suddenly accelerated upward.



Since the indicator displays momentum, it can stay overbought or oversold for a long time when an asset has significant momentum in either direction. Therefore, the RSI is most useful in an oscillating market (a trading range) where the asset price is alternating between bullish and bearish movements.




What Does RSI Mean?
The relative strength index (RSI) measures the price momentum of a stock or other security. The basic idea behind the RSI is to measure how quickly traders are bidding the price of the security up or down. The RSI plots this result on a scale of 0 to 100.Readings below 30 generally indicate that the stock is oversold, while readings above 70 indicate that it is overbought. Traders will often place this RSI chart below the price chart for the security, so they can compare its recent momentum against its market price.




Should I Buy When RSI Is Low?
Some traders consider it a buy signal if a security’s RSI reading moves below 30. This is based on the idea that the security has been oversold and is therefore poised for a rebound. However, the reliability of this signal will depend in part on the overall context. If the security is caught in a significant downtrend, then it might continue trading at an oversold level for quite some time. Traders in that situation might delay buying until they see other technical indicators confirm their buy signal.




What Happens When RSI Is High?
As the relative strength index is mainly used to determine whether a security is overbought or oversold, a high RSI reading can mean that a security is overbought and the price may drop. Therefore, it can be a signal to sell the security.




What Is the Difference Between RSI and Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD)?
RSI and moving average convergence divergence (MACD) are both momentum measurements that can help traders understand a security’s recent trading activity. However, they accomplish this goal in different ways.In essence, the MACD works by smoothing out the security’s recent price movements and comparing that medium-term trend line to a short-term trend line showing its more recent price changes. Traders can then base their buy and sell decisions on whether the short-term trend line rises above or below the medium-term trend line.
What Is a Relative Valuation Model?  

A relative valuation model is a business valuation method that compares a company's value to that of its competitors or industry peers to assess the firm's financial worth. Relative valuation models are an alternative to absolute value models, which try to determine a company's intrinsic worth based on its estimated future free cash flows discounted to their present value, without any reference to another company or industry average. Like absolute value models, investors may use relative valuation models when determining whether a company's stock is a good buy.





Key Takeaways

A relative valuation model compares a firm's value to that of its competitors to determine the firm's financial worth. One of the most popular relative valuation multiples is the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio.A relative valuation model differs from an absolute valuation model which makes no reference to any other company or industry average.A relative valuation model can be used to assess the value of a company's stock price compared to other companies or an industry average.


   Types of Relative Valuation Models  

There are many different types of relative valuation ratios, such as price to free cash flow, enterprise value (EV), operating margin, price to cash flow for real estate and price-to-sales (P/S) for retail.



One of the most popular relative valuation multiples is the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio. It is calculated by dividing stock price by earnings per share (EPS), and is expressed as a company's share price as a multiple of its earnings. A company with a high P/E ratio is trading at a higher price per dollar of earnings than its peers and is considered overvalued. Likewise, a company with a low P/E ratio is trading at a lower price per dollar of EPS and is considered undervalued. This framework can be carried out with any multiple of price to gauge relative market value. Therefore, if the average P/E for an industry is 10x and a particular company in that industry is trading at 5x earnings, it is relatively undervalued to its peers.


   Relative Valuation Model vs. Absolute Valuation Model  

Relative valuation uses multiples, averages, ratios, and benchmarks to determine a firm's value. A benchmark may be selected by finding an industry-wide average, and that average is then used to determine relative value. An absolute measure, on the other hand, makes no external reference to a benchmark or average. A company's market capitalization, which is the aggregate market value of all of its outstanding shares, is expressed as a plain dollar amount and tells you little about its relative value. Of course, with enough absolute valuation measures in hand across several firms, relative inferences can be drawn.


   Special Considerations  
  Estimating Relative Value of Stock  

In addition to providing a gauge for relative value, the P/E ratio allows analysts to back into the price that a stock should be trading at based on its peers. For example, if the average P/E for the specialty retail industry is 20x, it means the average price of stock from a company in the industry trades at 20 times its EPS.



Assume Company A trades for $50 in the market and has an EPS of $2. The P/E ratio is calculated by dividing $50 by $2, which is 25x. This is higher than the industry average of 20x, which means Company A is overvalued. If Company A were trading at 20 times its EPS, the industry average, it would be trading at a price of $40, which is the relative value. In other words, based on the industry average, Company A is trading at a price that is $10 higher than it should be, representing an opportunity to sell.



Because of the importance of developing an accurate benchmark or industry average, it is important to only compare companies in the same industry and market capitalization when calculating relative values.
What Is Relative Value?  

Relative value is a method of determining an asset's worth that takes into account the value of similar assets. This is in contrast with absolute value, which looks only at an asset's intrinsic value and does not compare it to other assets. The price-to-earnings ratio (P/E ratio) is a popular valuation method that can be used to measure the relative value of stocks.





Key Takeaways

Relative value looks at an asset's worth by comparing it with the value of similar assets.Relative value methods allow investors and analysts to make better apples-to-apples comparisons across potential investments.One major flaw in using relative valuation is that it may pigeonhole investors to select the best among poor or mediocre choices rather than searching elsewhere.


   Understanding Relative Value  

Value investors examine the financial statements of competing companies before deciding where to invest their money. They look at relevant footnotes, management commentary, and economic data to assess the stock's value relative to its peers.



Steps in relative valuation may include:



First, identifying comparable assets and corporations. In these cases, it can be useful to view market capitalizations and revenue or sales figures. Their stock prices represent how the market values comparable companies at any given time.
Deriving price multiples from these initial figures. Price multiples can include ratios, such as the P/E ratio or the price-to-sales ratio (P/S ratio).
Comparing these multiples across a company’s peer or competitor group to determine if the company's stock is undervalued relative to other firms.


   Benefits of Relative Valuation  

Investors must always choose among the investments that are actually available at any given time, and relative valuation helps them to do that. By 2019, it was easy to look back at the prices of most U.S. stocks in 2009 and realize that they were undervalued. However, that does not help one to choose better investments today. That is where a relative valuation method like the stock market capitalization-to-GDP ratio shines. The World Bank maintains data on stock market capitalization as a percentage of GDP for many nations covering several decades.﻿﻿ With U.S. stocks near record highs in terms of stock market capitalization as a percentage of GDP in 2019, stocks in most other countries were relatively inexpensive.






Investors must always choose among the investments that are actually available at any given time, and relative valuation helps them to do that.


   Criticism of Relative Valuation  

The primary flaw of relative valuation is that it may condemn investors to making the best of a bad situation. When limited to a single asset class, relative valuation can do little more than reduce losses in extreme circumstances. For example, value funds generally did much better than the S&P 500 during the 2000-2002 bear market. Unfortunately, most of them still lost money.


   Relative Valuation vs. Intrinsic Valuation  

Relative valuation is one of two important methods of placing a monetary value on a company; the other is intrinsic valuation. Investors might be familiar with the Discounted Cash Flows (DCF) method for determining the intrinsic value of a company. While relative valuation incorporates many multiples, a DCF model uses a company’s future free cash flow projections and discounts them. That is achieved by using a required annual rate. Eventually, an analyst will arrive at a present value estimate, which can then be used to evaluate the potential for investment. If the DCF value is higher than the cost of the investment, the opportunity may be a good one.


   An Example of Relative Value  

Consider the following table of financial information comparing Microsoft to other technology firms.











Company
Market Capitalization (millions)
Net Income (millions)
Price-to-earnings (PE) ratio


Microsoft
$666.154
$22.113
30.5


Oracle
$197.500
$9.913
20.5


VMware
$52.420
$1.186
46.8






Based on the above relative value analysis results, Microsoft is overvalued relative to Oracle. However, Microsoft is also undervalued relative to VMware.
What Is the Relative Vigor Index?  

The Relative Vigor Index (RVI) is a momentum indicator used in technical analysis that measures the strength of a trend by comparing a security's closing price to its trading range while smoothing the results using a simple moving average (SMA).



The RVI's usefulness is based on the observed tendency for prices to close higher than they open during uptrends, and to close lower than they open in downtrends.





Key Takeaways

The Relative Vigor Index (RVI) is a technical momentum indicator.The RVI oscillates across a pre-determined center line rather than a banded trend.Divergences between the RVI indicator and price suggest there will be a near-term change in the trend.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021


   The Formula for the Relative Vigor Index (RVI)  

The RVI formula may look complicated, but it is really fairly intuitive:


















NUMERATOR


=




a


+


(


2


×


b


)


+


(


2


×


c


)


+


d



6

















DENOMINATOR


=




e


+


(


2


×


f


)


+


(


2


×


g


)


+


h



6

















RVI


=




SMA of NUMERATOR for 



N



 periods




SMA of DENOMINATOR for 



N



 periods



















 Signal Line 


=




RVI


+


(


2


×


i


)


+


(


2


×


j


)


+


k



6

















where:
















a


=


Close


−


Open
















b


=


Close


−


Open One Bar Prior to 


a
















c


=


Close


−


Open One Bar Prior to 


b
















d


=


Close


−


Open One Bar Prior to 


c
















e


=


High


−


Low of Bar 


a
















f


=


High


−


Low of Bar 


b
















g


=


High


−


Low of Bar 


c
















h


=


High


−


Low of Bar 


d
















i


=


RVI Value One Bar Prior
















j


=


RVI Value One Bar Prior to 


i
















k


=


RVI Value One Bar Prior to 


j
















N


=


Minutes/Hours/Days/Weeks/Months







\begin{aligned} &\text{NUMERATOR}=\frac{a+(2\times b)+(2\times c)+d}{6}\\[7pt] &\text{DENOMINATOR}=\frac{e+(2\times f)+(2\times g)+h}{6}\\[7pt] &\text{RVI}=\frac{\text{SMA of NUMERATOR for $N$ periods}}{\text{SMA of DENOMINATOR for $N$ periods}}\\[7pt] &\qquad\text{\ Signal Line }=\frac{\text{RVI}+(2\times i)+(2\times j)+k}{6}\\[7pt] &\textbf{where:}\\ &a = \text{Close}-\text{Open}\\ &b=\text{Close}-\text{Open One Bar Prior to }a\\ &c =\text{Close}-\text{Open One Bar Prior to }b\\ &d =\text{Close}-\text{Open One Bar Prior to }c\\ &e =\text{High}-\text{Low of Bar }a\\ &f =\text{High}-\text{Low of Bar }b\\ &g =\text{High}-\text{Low of Bar }c\\ &h =\text{High}-\text{Low of Bar }d\\ &i = \text{RVI Value One Bar Prior}\\ &j = \text{RVI Value One Bar Prior to }i\\ &k = \text{RVI Value One Bar Prior to }j\\ &N = \text{Minutes/Hours/Days/Weeks/Months} \end{aligned}


​NUMERATOR=6a+(2×b)+(2×c)+d​DENOMINATOR=6e+(2×f)+(2×g)+h​RVI=SMA of DENOMINATOR for N periodsSMA of NUMERATOR for N periods​ Signal Line =6RVI+(2×i)+(2×j)+k​where:a=Close−Openb=Close−Open One Bar Prior to ac=Close−Open One Bar Prior to bd=Close−Open One Bar Prior to ce=High−Low of Bar af=High−Low of Bar bg=High−Low of Bar ch=High−Low of Bar di=RVI Value One Bar Priorj=RVI Value One Bar Prior to ik=RVI Value One Bar Prior to jN=Minutes/Hours/Days/Weeks/Months​


  How To Calculate the Relative Vigor Index (RVI)  

Choose an N period to examine.Identify the open, high, low, and close values for the current bar.Identify the open, high, low, and close values for lookback periods prior to the current bar.Calculate SMAs for NUMERATOR and DENOMINATOR over the N period.Divide NUMERATOR value from DENOMINATOR value.Place the result in the signal line equation and plot it on a graph.


   What Does the Relative Vigor Index (RVI) Tell You?  

The RVI indicator is calculated in a similar fashion to the stochastics oscillator but it compares the close relative to the open rather than comparing the close relative to the low. Traders expect the RVI value to rise as the bullish trend gains momentum because, in this positive setting, a security's closing price tends to be at the top of the range while the open is near the low of the range.



The RVI is interpreted in the same way as many other oscillators, such as moving average convergence-divergence (MACD) or the relative strength index (RSI). While oscillators tend to fluctuate between set levels, they may remain at extreme levels over a prolonged period of time so that interpretation must be undertaken in a broad context to be actionable.



The RVI is instead a centered oscillator and not a banded (trend-following) oscillator, which means that it's typically displayed above or below the price chart, moving around a center line rather than the actual price. It's a good idea to use the RVI indicator in conjunction with other forms of technical analysis in order to find the highest probability outcomes.


   Example of How To Use the Relative Vigor Index (RVI)  

A trader might examine potential changes in a trend with the RVI indicator by looking for divergences with the current price and then identifying specific entry and exit points with traditional trendlines and chart patterns.



The two most popular trading signals include:



RVI Divergences: Divergence between the RVI indicator and price suggests there will be a near-term change in the trend in the direction of the RVI's trend. So, if a stock price is rising and the RVI indicator is falling, it predicts the stock will reverse over the near term.
RVI Crossovers: Like many oscillators, the RVI has a signal line that's often calculated with price inputs. A crossover above the signal line is a bullish indicator, while a crossover below the signal line is a bearish indicator. These crossovers are designed to be leading indicators of future price direction.


   Limitations of Using the Relative Vigor Index (RVI)  

The RVI works best in trending markets and tends to generate false signals in rangebound markets. Results can be improved by setting longer-term lookback periods, which help to reduce the impact of whipsaws and short-term countertrends.
What Is Relevant Cost?  

Relevant cost is a managerial accounting term that describes avoidable costs that are incurred only when making specific business decisions. The concept of relevant cost is used to eliminate unnecessary data that could complicate the decision-making process. As an example, relevant cost is used to determine whether to sell or keep a business unit.



The opposite of a relevant cost is a sunk cost, which has already been incurred regardless of the outcome of the current decision.





Key Takeaways

Relevant costs are only the costs that will be affected by the specific management decision being considered.The opposite of a relevant cost is a sunk cost.Management uses relevant costs in decision-making, such as whether to close a business unit, whether to make or buy parts or labor, and whether to accept a customer's last-minute or special orders.


   Example of Relevant Cost  

Assume, for example, a passenger rushes up to the ticket counter to purchase a ticket for a flight that is leaving in 25 minutes. The airline needs to consider the relevant costs to make a decision about the ticket price. Almost all of the costs related to adding the extra passenger have already been incurred, including the plane fuel, airport gate fee, and the salary and benefits for the entire plane’s crew. Because these costs have already been incurred, they are "sunk costs" or irrelevant costs.



The only additional cost is the labor to load the passenger’s luggage and any food that is served mid-flight, so the airline bases the last-minute ticket pricing decision on just a few small costs.


   Types of Relevant Cost Decisions  
  Continue Operating vs. Closing Business Units  

A big decision for a manager is whether to close a business unit or continue to operate it, and relevant costs are the basis for the decision. Assume, for example, a chain of retail sporting goods stores is considering closing a group of stores catering to the outdoor sports market. The relevant costs are the costs that can be eliminated due to the closure, as well as the revenue lost when the stores are closed. If the costs to be eliminated are greater than the revenue lost, the outdoor stores should be closed.


  Make vs. Buy  

Make vs. buy decisions are often an issue for a company that requires component parts to create a finished product. For example, a furniture manufacturer is considering an outside vendor to assemble and stain wood cabinets, which would then be finished in-house by adding handles and other details. The relevant costs in this decision are the variable costs incurred by the manufacturer to make the wood cabinets and the price paid to the outside vendor. If the vendor can provide the component part at a lower cost, the furniture manufacturer outsources the work.


  Factoring in a Special Order  

A special order occurs when a customer places an order near the end of the month, and prior sales have already covered the fixed cost of production for the month. If a client wants a price quote for a special order, management only considers the variable costs to produce the goods, specifically material and labor costs. Fixed costs, such as a factory lease or manager salaries, are irrelevant because the firm has already paid for those costs with prior sales.
What Is a Relief Rally?  

A relief rally is a respite from a broader market sell-off that results in temporarily higher securities prices. Relief rallies often occur when anticipated negative news winds up being positive or less severe than expected. A relief rally is one type of bear market rally.



Market participants price in many different types of events, such as the release of a company's quarterly earnings report, election results, interest rate changes, and new industry regulations. Any of these events can trigger a relief rally when the news is not as bad as expected. Relief rallies happen in many different asset classes such as stocks, bonds, and commodities.





Key Takeaways

A relief rally is characterized by a rise in securities prices that acts as temporary relief from broader selling pressure.Relief rallies generally are seen during a secular bear market.One can be triggered by slightly good news, with short-sellers helping push the stock higher by covering their positions.


   Understanding a Relief Rally  

A relief rally often happens amid a secular decline in the market or persistent selling pressure that lasts for multiple days. Relief rallies happen for individual stocks, as well. Slightly better-than-expected financial results sometimes ignite relief rallies for beaten-down stocks with a long history of missing analyst expectations for many quarters.



Sometimes, even a lower-than-expected loss can ignite a relief rally, or they might be triggered by a more positive tone on a company conference call with analysts. Part of the reason is that slightly good news sometimes causes short sellers to buy stock to cover their positions, which can trigger a short covering. This is done as short-sellers look to avoid further losses as prices rise.



Because bear markets last for long periods of time, they can exact an emotional drain on investors hoping for a market turnaround—hence the "relief" when signs of a bounce appear. Market advisors warn against emotional responses to market volatility, as investors may panic and make judgment errors regarding their holdings.






Identifying a relief rally can be challenging, even for experienced traders. In many cases, such a rally can last for weeks or even months before the continuation of a longer-term downward trend.


   Special Considerations  

A relief rally does not necessarily spell the end of a secular decline, however. Both the aftermath of the dotcom bubble and the 2007–2008 financial crisis saw several relief rallies for stocks, only to see renewed fears push market prices lower again.



Sharp relief rallies that occur in otherwise bearish markets are sometimes called a dead cat bounce or sucker's rally. This type of rally may fool some into thinking there is a reversal in the trend, only to find the bear market continuing soon after.
What Is a Remittance?  

A remittance is money that is sent from one party to another. Broadly speaking, any payment of an invoice or a bill can be called a remittance. However, the term is most often used nowadays to describe a sum of money sent by someone working abroad to their family back home.



The term is derived from the word remit, which means to send back.





Key Takeaways


A remittance is money sent to another party, usually in another country.
Typically, the sender is a foreign worker and the recipient is a relative in the recipient's home country.
Remittances represent one of the largest sources of income for people in low-income and developing nations.
Remittance amounts often exceed the amount of direct investment and international development assistance that a country receives.
Intelligence agencies view remittances as a potential source of funding for terrorism.













Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Remittances  

Remittances can be money sent as payment for a bill. However, most remittances involve sending money to relatives. They are often sent by foreign workers to family members in their home countries.



The most common way of making a remittance is by using an electronic payment system through a bank or an electronic money transfer service such as Western Union. People who use these options are generally charged a fee. Transfers can take as little as ten minutes to reach the recipient.



Remittances play an increasingly large role in the economies of small and developing countries. They also play an important role in disaster relief, often exceeding official development assistance (ODA). They help raise the standard of living for people in low-income nations and help combat global poverty.



In fact, since the late 1990s, remittances have exceeded development aid and in some cases make up a significant portion of a country's gross domestic product (GDP).



According to the World Bank's Migration and Development Brief, $508 billion in remittances were sent to low- and middle-income countries in 2020. This was followed by $605 billion in 2021. In 2019, they reached a then, all-time high of $548 billion but declined thereafter due to the Covid pandemic.



Remittances to these countries is expected to grow to $630 billion in 2022. The amount is larger than the foreign direct investment and official aid funds sent to these countries (excluding China).



Remittances are also used to help those living in less developed nations open bank accounts, a trend that helps promote economic development.


   How to Send a Remittance  

Remittances typically are sent using an electronic payment system or service.



Individuals can visit a bank or credit union or go online to initiate a wire transfer or an ACH transfer. Funds, in large amounts if necessary, can be transferred and available by the next day but may take longer. Wire transfers cannot be reversed so it's important to be sure you're sending money to the intended recipient. ACH transfers can be reversed, if need be.
If wiring money, be prepared to provide the recipient's bank name, bank account number, and routing number.
Individuals may also use apps such as PayPal and WorldRemit to send money internationally.
Money transfer services can also provide assistance sending remittances abroad. This can be done in person or, typically, online. Online services include Western Union, Wise (formerly TransferWise) and Xe.



Remittances can also be sent by U.S. Postal Service money order. For international money orders:



Visit any U.S. Postal Service location. You can send up to $750 per money order.Be prepared to provide the amount of the remittance using cash, a debit card, or a traveler’s check. Credit cards cannot be used.Fill out the money order.Pay the dollar value of the money order plus the issuing fee.Send the money order by first-class mail or package, or Priority Mail or Express Mail.Keep the receipts for your money order and the mailing.


   Remittance Fees  

Fees to send money internationally vary according to the provider and the service.



Banks and credit unions can charge up to $45 for outgoing domestic transfers in the U.S. and $10 to $20 or more (e.g., $50 to $65) on top of that for outgoing international transfers involving U.S. dollars. Recipient banks can also charge a fee.ACH transfers are usually a low cost option for consumers—much less than wire transfers—especially when the remittance goes directly into a recipient's account. Check with your bank for specific details.An international money transfer service provider such as Wise charges a small flat fee of $4.15 plus a variable percentage (currently 0.47%) of the transfer amount for currency conversion. Variable fees can also apply depending on transfer type.PayPal's fees for international transfers from a PayPal balance include a fixed fee of up to 5.00% of the transaction amount when sending from the U.S. plus a currency conversion fee that can range from 3.75% to 4% of the transaction. If funding the transfer with a credit or debit card, an additional funding fee of 2.9% and fixed fee will apply.The U.S. Postal Service charges an issuing fee of $49.65 plus a processing fee that depends on the country to which a money order is sent.





6.4%

The global average cost of sending a $200 remittance in the first quarter of 2021, according to the World Bank. It costs more to send remittances through banks than through digital channels or money transfer services.


   Financial Impact of Remittances  
  The 2020 Economic Crisis and COVID  

The 2020 economic crisis and COVID-19 had a severe impact on migrant workers and their families back home.



The World Bank estimated in late 2020 that remittances to family members would drop by 14% in 2020 compared to pre-epidemic levels. It foresaw rising unemployment among migrants, a slowing of new migrations, and an increase in returns of migrants to their home countries.



There is a concern about the high cost of global remittances, especially with the elevated drive towards global financial inclusion. To promote transparency, some countries limit remittances to bank wire transfers, but banks are the most expensive transfer channel, and wire transfers in particular are among the highest cost, according to the World Bank.



In the first quarter of 2021, average remittance costs for transfers to the Middle East and North Africa fell to 6.3% from 7% a year earlier. In Sub-Saharan Africa, costs averaged 8%, down from 8.9% for the same period. In Latin America, costs averaged 5.5%, down from 6%.


  Examples of Remittances  

For low-income countries or those with struggling economies, remittances represent one of the largest sources of income for the native population. In 2015, for example, Mexicans abroad sent more than $24 billion back home, which was more money than the country generated from selling oil.



The collapse of the Venezuelan economy caused an enormous migration to other nations, and a corresponding increase in remittances to family members left behind. In 2017, more than $1.5 billion in remittances were sent to family members remaining in the beleaguered country.






The top remittance recipient countries in 2021 were India ($89 billion), followed by Mexico ($54 billion), and China ($53 billion).


   Special Considerations  
  Remittances and Crime  

There are concerns among financial intelligence units that remittances are one of the ways in which money can be laundered or violent activities like terrorism can be sponsored.



The methodology countries use to record the amount of money people receive via remittances is rarely made public. While the majority of value transfers occur via web or wire where they can be tracked easily, a fair amount of money is transferred in ways that are harder to follow.


  The Impact of Fintech on Fees  

Recent fintech (financial technology) waves in international money transfers are forcing fees down. Rising players include Payoneer, Wise, and WorldRemit. Regulation and oversight continue to be strengthened to ensure a more secure movement of funds.




What Is a Remittance?
A remittance is money sent from one person or entity to another. It can be money sent for payment of a bill, for example. However, today, it's more commonly seen as money sent by a person in one country to relatives or friends in another.




How Do I Send a Remittance?
You can send it by visiting your bank and requesting a wire transfer or ACH transfer. Or, you can send it using a money transfer service that specializes in transfers, domestic and international. You can use an app such as PayPal to send a remittance to another country. These electronic services move money quickly, often within a day. If you prefer, you can always send a money order by U.S. mail but how soon it will arrive at its destination depends on which service you use (e.g., first-class international mail or Express mail).




What's the Difference Between a Remittance and a Payment?
Although a remittance can be a payment sent in response to receiving a bill, it's a term that's also used to describe funds sent internationally. For instance, when money is sent by someone in the U.S. to family or friends in another country, they are sending a remittance.


   The Bottom Line  

Remittances are sent all across the globe in huge amounts. They play a very important role in the economies of various low- to middle-income nations, as well in disaster relief. The amounts that are transferred yearly can exceed the GDPs of some countries.



Remittances can be expensive to send. That's a concern for organizations such as the World Bank because funds sent home by migrants "have greatly complemented government cash transfer programs to support families suffering economic hardships."



Reducing the costs and encouraging the flow of remittances to households in countries where they provide economic relief should be a focus of government policies around the world.
What Is Remuneration?  

Remuneration is the total compensation received by an employee. It includes not only base salary but any bonuses, commission payments, overtime pay, or other financial benefits that an employee receives from an employer.



A job perk may or may not be a component of employee remuneration. An on-site gym or a generous vacation plan are perks but they aren't money in an employee's pocket. Remuneration may include direct payment of money or taxable fringe benefits such as personal use of a company car.





Key Takeaways

Remuneration is the total amount an employee receives for performing a job.Remuneration includes not only base salary but all other forms of financial compensation an employee receives.A company contribution to a retirement plan is deferred compensation, and as such is a component of remuneration.At the executive level, remuneration may include a combination of salary, stock shares, bonuses, and other financial compensation.For employees in service jobs, tips are considered part of remuneration.


   Understanding Remuneration  

The term remuneration implies total compensation.



At the executive level, remuneration can include options, bonuses, expense accounts, and other forms of compensation. These are generally detailed in an employment contract.



The amount of remuneration and its components depend on many factors, including:



The employee's value to the company. Employees with in-demand skills are likely to get more perks.The job type. Some are straight hourly or salaried positions while others offer base pay plus commissions, bonuses, or tips.The company's business model. Some companies pride themselves on their generous employee remuneration and may offer bonuses, employee stock options, and 401(k) plan matching contributions. Others find such perks to be an unsupportable drag on the finances of the business.The general state of the economy. When jobs are plentiful and talent is scarce, companies pull out all the stops to attract the best candidates. That means better remuneration.


   Types of Remuneration  

The most common type of remuneration is in the form of wages or salary. These may be supplemented with bonuses given for performance, holidays, or some other reason. Many sales positions offer a commission on the sales made by an employee or a percentage of the amount sold. Some of these commissioned positions offer a base salary, while others are solely dependent on commissions.



Positions in the food service and hospitality industries often rely on tips, as their base pay does not meet the minimum wage.



In addition, there are commissions, overtime payments, retirement benefits, and other benefits. These other benefits can include health insurance, retirement plan matching, sick pay, personal days, and reimbursement for work-related travel or other expenses.


  The Golden Hello  

A company that is anxious to attract a person with a unique skillset or an outstanding reputation may offer yet another type of remuneration: the golden hello. This is a signing bonus, due when the employee starts the job (and, sometimes, forfeited if the employee leaves within a short period of time).



The better-known golden parachute, which guarantees an executive a generous payout in case of termination, is another form of remuneration that is written into a contract before the job even begins.






If it's remuneration, it's generally taxable. The IRS has a guide to taxation of fringe benefits.


  Indirect Remuneration  

Direct remuneration refers to the monetary rewards that an employee receives, but these rewards can also take different forms.



Another type of remuneration is deferred compensation, which sets aside an employee's earnings to be redeemed at a later date. One common example of this is a retirement plan that includes an employer matching a certain amount contributed by an employee.



Remuneration may also refer to the benefits an employee receives from their company. These can come in the form of health insurance coverage, gym memberships, the use of a company mobile device or car, depending on the job and the company.



Most forms of remuneration, direct and indirect, are taxable as part of an employee's gross income. It gets complicated, of course, and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) publishes a complete guide to what it calls fringe benefits.


   Minimum Wages  

The minimum wage is the lowest remuneration an employer can legally pay most employees, assuming there are no other benefits of the job.



The minimum wage varies by state, although the state minimum must be at least equal to the federal minimum wage. The federal minimum wage has been $7.25 since 2009.



Many workers are exempt from the federal minimum wage. These include not only restaurant wait staff but independent contractors, laborers on small farms, seasonal workers, apprentices, and students.






For many workers, salary and remuneration are the same. For others, salary is only one part of remuneration and it may be a minor part.




What Does Remuneration Mean According to the IRS?
Remuneration is the total amount paid to an employee. It may include a salary or hourly rate, bonuses, commissions, or any other payment.In the view of the IRS, remuneration is the sum total of earnings and other taxable benefits and allowances. Remuneration, to the IRS, is synonymous with wages, whether it is labeled a salary, a bonus, or a commission.




What Is the Difference Between Salary and Remuneration?
Salary is a form of remuneration. For many people, salary and remuneration are the same. They are paid a flat salary or hourly rate for their work.For others, salary is only one part of remuneration, and may even be a minor part.Salespeople, for example, may receive a small salary and get their income largely from commissions based on their sales.Wall Street professionals are paid a token salary and get the bulk of their income in a single bonus payment that is determined at the end of the year based on their performance and that of the company.Restaurant wait staff can be paid as little as $2.13 an hour under federal law. The law assumes that this hourly rate plus tips will add up to at least $5.15 an hour in remuneration.




What Are Some Types of Remuneration?
Remuneration generally includes a salary or hourly wage or (in the case of a contractor) a job rate.Some workers also receive a bonus, commission payments, a retirement savings contribution, or other fringe benefits of financial value.At the executive level, those fringe benefits can get crazy. CEO perks may include personal use of a company jet, plus a "tax gross-up," meaning a company reimbursement of the amount they had to pay in income taxes for their personal use of the company jet.




What Is Another Word for Remuneration?
Compensation is a fair synonym for remuneration. It implies total payments.Salary or wages may be only one part of remuneration.
What Is a Renewable Energy Certificate (REC)?  

Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) are a market-based instrument that certifies the bearer owns one megawatt-hour (MWh) of electricity generated from a renewable energy resource. Once the power provider has fed the energy into the grid, the REC received can then be sold on the open market as an energy commodity. RECs earned may be sold, for example, to other entities that are polluting as a carbon credit to offset their emissions.



RECs can go by other names, including Green Tags, Tradable Renewable Certificates (TRCs), Renewable Electricity Certificates, or Renewable Energy Credits.





Key Takeaways


Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) provide proof that the owner of an energy market instrument owns one MWh of renewable energy; they account for the amount of renewable energy that flows through the power grid.
RECs can eventually be sold for profit to those looking to offset their carbon emissions or speculators betting on the value of energy credits.
REC swaps consist of trading RECs to profit from the disparity between the buy and sell price; because many states have varying RPS standards, this increases opportunities to swap.



   How Renewable Energy Certificates Work  

A Renewable Energy Certificate (REC) acts as an accounting or tracking mechanism for solar, wind, and other green energies as they flow into the power grid. Since electricity generated from renewable energy sources is indistinguishable from that produced by any other source, some form of tracking is required.



This accounting and returning energy to the grid is necessary because electricity is difficult and expensive to store in batteries. So, most renewable-generated power, which is unused by the creator, is fed back into the power grid for use by other customers. The provider of renewable electricity, such as a homeowner with rooftop solar panels, will then receive a REC. Energy Certificates can be sold, but are typically used as a credit against their own power usage.






The eligibility to use RECs expires at the end of the fifth calendar year following the year they were generated.


   Requirements for Renewable Energy Certificates  

Many states require power utilities to purchase or generate renewable solar power. These requirements are called solar carve-outs. Moreover, many states have a Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS), which requires power services to create a certain amount of renewable power that increases every year. These RPS requirements are a significant driver of the Renewable Energy Certificate trades. A power company may purchase these certificates from the homeowner to meet the state's renewable requirement.



While state laws vary on the use and sale of RECs, the certificates are recognized by many state and local governments, as well as regional electricity transmission authorities, non-government organizations (NGOs), and trade groups. Besides solar and wind-generated power, RECs may be issued for generators of geothermal, hydro-power without dams, biofuels, and hydrogen fuel cells.


   Example of a Renewable Energy Credit  

REC arbitrage is also called a REC swap. These trades involve the near-simultaneous buying and selling of RECs with differing prices. Traders attempt to profit from the disparity between the buy and sell price.



For example, State A has a higher Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) requirement and solar-carve outs than State B has. The higher requirement drives demand for the price of Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) in state A. 



The state A provider, who must meet the higher requirements would, therefore, have an incentive to purchase less expensive state B certificates. The provider may then use these credits to meet their requirements.



Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) are always the same one megawatt-hour (MWh) of electricity, regardless of where production happened. However, the price may vary due to supply and demand. In practice, broker intermediaries typically facilitate REC arbitrage, but the market allows renewable energy providers to economize on energy production, as well as reduce carbon emissions by encouraging more green energy production.
What Is a Renewable Resource?  

A renewable resource is a resource that can be replenished naturally over time. As a result, it is sustainable despite its consumption by humankind.



Renewable resources are considered especially important for their potential to replace non-renewable, or finite, resources in the production of energy. Additionally, renewable resources can offer cleaner energy solutions than those provided by non-renewable resources such as coal and fossil fuels.



Examples of renewable resources include the sun, wind, water, the earth's heat (geothermal), and biomass.





Key Takeaways

The demand for renewable resources is increasing as the human population continues to grow.Energy created by renewable resources is considered virtually unlimited because of the ability of these resources to regenerate naturally.Renewable energy can lessen the strain on the limited supply of fossil fuels, which are considered non-renewable resources.Using renewable resources on a large scale is costly and more research is needed to make them cost-effective.Regardless of the renewable nature of some resources, conservation efforts are important, e.g., where water is concerned.


   Understanding Renewable Resources  

A renewable resource is a resource of which there is an endless supply because it can be replenished. The sun, the wind, and geothermal heat are considered inexhaustible and therefore are examples of renewable resources.



Water is also considered a renewable natural resource, as long as there is precipitation. Changing climate patterns have shown the need for conservation efforts to protect water supplies.



Other natural resources are considered renewable even though some time and effort must go into their renewal. In addition, most precious metals are considered renewable because they're reusable. Since they are not destroyed during their extraction and use, they can be recycled.



Unlike renewable resources, once a non-renewable resource is depleted, it cannot be recovered. As the human population continues to grow and finite resources become increasingly scarce, the demand for renewable resources increases.


  Renewable Resources Used for Energy  

Fossil fuels have been used since the late 1880s to produce the energy we use. Renewable resources such as hydropower and wood have been used much longer. In fact, they were the two primary renewable energy resources up to the 1990s.



In the years since, renewable energy production has come increasingly from biomass, geothermal, solar, water, and wind resources.



Renewable resources that can replace fossil fuels in the production of energy are a major focus of nations around the world. The challenges for successful renewable energy production include reliability and expense.



A great deal of research is taking place to determine the viability and best implementation of renewable energy on a mass scale.






The Paris Climate Accord is an agreement between over 180 countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and limit the global temperature increase to less than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels by the year 2100. On Jan. 20, 2021, President Joe Biden signed an executive order for the U.S. to rejoin the Paris Agreement after the Trump administration withdrew from it on Nov. 4, 2020.


   Types of Renewable Resources  
  Sun  

Sunlight is a widely recognized renewable resource. In fact, it's been used throughout human history to warm shelters, dry and cook foods, and heat water. Different technologies exist and continue to be developed to collect and convert solar radiation into heat energy that can be used for various purposes.



For example solar photovoltaic (PV) devices, or solar cells, change sunlight into electricity. Depending on the number of solar cells in use, they can power small appliances or provide the electricity for many homes



The challenge with using sunlight for our energy needs is that it can vary and, at times, be unreliable. The availability of sunlight depends on time of day, existing weather conditions, season of the year, and geographic location.


  Wind  

Wind has a direct relationship to the sun. Daily winds result when the sun's heat is captured unevenly by the varying surfaces on the earth, including oceans and other water masses. Air above land heats up faster than air above water during the day when the sun is shining. That warm air expands and rises. Cooler air takes its place. This creates wind.



In earlier years, windmills were used across the U.S. to capture energy and pump water from wells. They still exist in some farming areas to provide livestock with water.



Today, wind is harnessed to produce electricity. Wind flows over blades in wind turbines. The blades turn and that drives an electric generator. In turn, that generates electricity.



Typically, wind turbines don't produce emissions capable of polluting the air or water. Also, they don't need to be cooled by water. Though rare, they can have some negative effects on the environment if they leak lubricating fluids or catch fire. They can also impact bird life and species.



In 2021, wind turbines provided about 9.2% of total U.S. utility-scale electricity generation.


  Water  

Hydropower is the energy produced by water. It was an early renewable source of energy even before it was used to generate electricity. For example, hydropower turned paddle wheels on rivers to mill grain and lumber. Changes in precipitation and lack of water due to droughts can affect hydropower production.



Hydropower was used to generate electricity in the U.S. beginning in 1880. Today most of the nation's hydroelectricity is produced in facilities located at large dams built in the 1970s.



Until 2019, hydropower was the largest source of total annual renewable electricity generation in the U.S.



In 2021, hydroelectricity accounted for 31.5% of total utility-scale renewable electricity generation.


  Geothermal  

Geothermal is a renewable resource that uses the earth's heat to generate power. Hot springs heated by the earth have been used for centuries for bathing. Geothermal energy has also been used, and still is, for district heating systems.



Geothermal energy is used to generate electricity, as well. Power plants for this purpose are built below ground, within approximately a mile of the earth's surface.



Seven U.S. states have geothermal power plants. In 2021, they produced approximately 16 billion kilowatthours (kWh) of electricity. That equals about 0.4% of total U.S. utility-scale electricity generation. Those states are California, Oregon, Nevada, Idaho, Utah, New Mexico, and Hawaii.



Geothermal heat pumps are another way to use the earth's heat. They transfer heat from the ground (or water) into buildings during the winter and reverse the process in the summer to aide in heating and cooling.


  Biomass  

Renewable organic products that produce energy are referred to as biomass. The process of photosynthesis uses energy from the sun to convert biomass resources into chemical energy.



In 2021, biomass provided nearly five quadrillion British thermal units (Btu) and about 5% of total primary energy use in the United States.



Biomass renewable resources include wood and wood waste, agricultural crops and waste (which are mainly used for biofuel), municipal waste including paper, cotton, food, and yard waste, and animal manure and sewage.



Biofuel refers to liquid fuels and blending components produced from feedstock biomass materials. Most biofuels are used as transportation fuels, but they may also be used for heating and electricity generation. This renewable resource has become more prevalent in recent years as an alternative to non-renewable resources such as coal, oil, and natural gas.



In 2021, the U.S. produced about 17.5 billion gallons of biofuels. It used about 16.8 billion gallons. In addition, the U.S. was a net exporter of about 0.8 billion gallons of biofuels. The fuel ethanol accounted for the largest part of those exports.



Although prices are still high for biofuel, some experts project that as the prices of fossil fuels increase, the price of biofuel will become more competitive.






   Renewable Resources vs. Non-Renewable Resources  
  Renewable Resources  

Renewable resources are those resources that continue to exist despite being consumed or can replenish themselves over a period of time even as they are used. They include the sun, wind, water, geothermal, and biomass.



The disadvantage of renewable resources is that they may not be available for use when needed.



For example, the ability to collect and use solar energy is limited at night and when the sky is overcast. The continued availability of water depends on ongoing precipitation and weather conditions.



Renewable resources are considered to have less of a negative impact on the environment.


  Non-Renewable Resources  

Non-renewable resources are those resources that are considered finite due to the extremely long time it takes for nature to create them. Once depleted, they become unavailable. They include coal, natural gas, and oil.



The advantage of non-renewable resources is that they're readily available now and the infrastructure for their use exists to produce power on demand.



However, they have a greater, negative environmental impact than renewable resources. The heat trapped by carbon dioxide gas when coal and oil are burned contributes to the atmosphere's rising temperature and global climate change.



Activists, consumers, and government leaders promote renewable energy as a way to generate needed power without the emissions that are warming the planet and threatening life on earth.






The COVID-19 pandemic supported the trend toward lower fossil fuel prices due to record-low consumption in 2020. However, with the outbreak of the Ukraine-Russia war in early 2022, the price of oil skyrocketed and has remained high.


   Special Considerations  
  A Global Trend Toward Renewable Resources  

Renewable resources have become a focal point of the environmental movement, both politically and economically. Energy obtained from renewable resources puts much less strain on the limited supply of fossil fuels, which are non-renewable resources.



The problem with using renewable resources on a large scale is that they are costly and, in most cases, more research is needed to determine how to use them most cost-effectively.



Beyond their limited supply, energy sources such as fossil fuels damage the environment when produced and consumed and contribute to global warming. The first major international accord to curb carbon dioxide emissions and global warming was the Kyoto Protocol, signed in 1997. More recently, global powers met in Paris in 2015 to pledge emissions reductions and focus on higher reliance on renewable resources for energy.


  Incentives for Use  

Incentives can encourage the use of alternative energy. For example, energy taxes place a surcharge on fossil fuels. This can make prices of renewable resources more competitive and attractive. As a result, people may be more inclined to use renewable energy.



Green funds, which are investment vehicles such as mutual funds, support eco-friendly and sustainable companies by investing in them. This also helps to promote environmental awareness.



These incentives seem to be having an effect. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), in 2021, renewable energy provided approximately 12.6 quadrillion British thermal units (Btu). This represented 12% of total U.S. energy consumption.



The electric power sector consumed around 59% of U.S. renewable energy in 2021, and approximately 20% of U.S. electricity generation came from renewable energy sources.



State and federal governments have encouraged more biofuel consumption with requirements and incentives for the use of renewable energy. The EIA anticipates that U.S. renewable energy consumption will continue to increase through 2050.








What Does Renewable Resource Mean?
The term renewable resource refers to a resource that replenishes itself naturally over a span of time. This means that it can be used without worry that it will be depleted permanently. Renewable resources are of particular interest as sources of renewable energy.




What Is an Example of a Renewable Resource?
The wind is one example. So are the sun and water. Biomass is a source of renewable energy from plants and animals. It includes wood, agricultural crops, food waste, and animal manure.




What Is Being Done to Encourage the Use of Renewable Resources?
Energy taxes place a surcharge on fossil fuels. The hope is that the prices of energy options produced by renewable resources will become more attractive and encourage consumer interest. Green mutual funds support eco-friendly and sustainable companies by investing in them and helping to promote environmental awareness.




What Is the Kyoto Protocol?
The Kyoto Protocol is an international agreement to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and greenhouse gases (GHG) in the atmosphere. The essential tenet of the Kyoto Protocol is that industrialized nations needed to lessen the amount of their CO2 emissions. The protocol was adopted in Kyoto, Japan in 1997, when greenhouse gases were rapidly threatening our climate, life on the earth, and the planet itself.


   The Bottom Line  

Renewable resources include the sun, the wind, water, the earth's heat (geothermal), and biomass.



Renewable resources are natural resources that replenish themselves over time or exist on a continual basis. In recent years, they've been of special interest for the vital role they can play in replacing non-renewable resources such as fossil fuels in the production of energy. They're also seen as having less of a negative impact on the environment.



Of course, renewable resources were used for thousands of years before non-renewable resources such as coal and oil began to be used used extensively in the late 19th century.



Due to the finite nature of coal and oil, plus the threat from climate change, the world community is focusing on the greater use of renewable resources to meet energy needs.
What is a Renko Chart?  

A Renko chart is a type of chart, developed by the Japanese, that is built using price movement rather than both price and standardized time intervals like most charts are. It is thought to be named after the Japanese word for bricks, "renga," since the chart looks like a series of bricks. A new brick is created when the price moves a specified price amount, and each block is positioned at a 45-degree angle (up or down) to the right of the prior brick. An up brick is typically colored white or green, while a down brick is typically colored black or red.





Key Takeaways


Renko charts are composed of bricks that are created at 45-degree angles to one another. Consecutive bricks do not occur beside each other. 
A brick can be any price size, such a $0.10, $0.50, $5, and so on. This is called the box size. Box size can also be based on the Average True Range (ATR).
Renko charts have a time axis, but the time scale is not fixed. Some bricks may take longer to form than others, depending on how long it takes the price to move the required box size.
Renko charts filter out noise and help traders to more clearly see the trend, since all movements that are smaller than the box size are filtered out. 
Renko charts typically only use closing prices based on the chart time frame chosen. For example, if using a weekly time frame, then weekly closing prices will be used to construct the bricks. 
















TradingView.


   What Does a Renko Chart Tell You?  

Renko charts are designed to filter out minor price movements to make it easier for traders to focus on important trends. While this makes trends much easier to spot, the downside is that some price information is lost due to simple brick construction of Renko charts.



The first step in building a Renko chart is selecting a box size that represents the magnitude of price movement. For example, a stock may have a $0.25 box size or a currency may have a 50 pip box size. A Renko chart is then constructed by placing a brick in the next column once the price has surpassed the top or bottom of the previous brick by the box size amount.



For the stock example, assume a stock is trading at $10 and has a $0.25 box size. If the price moves up to $10.25, a new brick will be drawn. That brick will only be drawn once the price closes at $10.25 or higher. If the price only reaches $10.24, a new brick will not be drawn. Once a brick is drawn it is not deleted. If the price rises to $10.50 or higher (and closes there), another brick will be drawn.



Renko bricks are not drawn beside each other. Therefore, if the stock drops back to $10.25 a down brick is not drawn next to the prior up box. The price would have to drop to $10 in order for a down brick to appear below the prior up brick.



While a fixed box size is common, ATR is also used. ATR is a measure of volatility, and therefore it fluctuates over time. Renko charts based on ATR will use the fluctuating ATR value as the box size.



Renko charts show a time axis, but the time intervals are not fixed. One brick to could take months to form, while several bricks may form within a day. This varies from candlestick or bar charts where a new candle/bar forms at specific time intervals.



Increasing or decreasing the box size will affect the "smoothness" of the chart. Decreasing the box size will create more swings, but will also highlight possible price reversals earlier. A larger box size will reduce the number of swings and noise but will be slower to signal a price reversal.



Renko charts are effective in identifying support and resistance levels since there is a lot less noise than a candlestick chart. When a strong trend forms, Renko traders may be able to ride that trend for a long time before even one brick in the opposite direction forms.



Trading signals are typically generated when the direction of the trend changes and the bricks alternate colors. For example, a trader might sell the asset when a red box appears after a series of climbing white boxes. Similarly, if the overall trend is up (lots of white/green boxes) a trader may enter a long position when a white brick occurs after one or two red boxes (a pullback).


   Example of How to Use Renko Charts  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The chart shows a strong uptrend in a stock with a $2 box size. Boxes are drawn based on closing prices, so highs and lows, as well as moves smaller than $2, are ignored. There is a brief pullback, marked by a red box, but then the green boxes emerge again. Given the strong uptrend, this could be used as an opportunity to enter long. Consider an exit when another red (down) box forms.



After the uptrend, a strong downtrend forms. A similar tactic could be used to enter short. Wait for a pullback marked by the green (up) box. When a red (down) brick forms, enter a short position, as the price could be heading lower again in alignment with the longer-term downtrend. Exit when up brick occurs.



These are sample guidelines. Some traders may wish to see two or more bricks in a particular direction before deciding to enter or exit.


   The Difference Between Renko Charts and Heikin Ashi Charts  

Heikin Ashi charts, also developed in Japan, can have a similar look to Renko charts in that both show sustained periods of up or down boxes that highlight the trend. While Renko charts use a fixed box amount, Heikin Ashi charts are taking an average of the open, high, low, and close for the current and prior time period. Therefore, the size of each box or candle is a different size and reflects the average price. Heikin Ashi charts are useful for highlighting trends in the same way that Renko charts are.


   Limitations of Using Renko Charts  

Renko charts don't show as much detail as candlestick or bar charts given their lack of reliance on time. A stock that has been ranging for a long period of time may be represented with a single box, which doesn't convey everything that went on during that time. This may be beneficial for some traders, but not for others.



Highs and lows are also ignored, only closing prices are used. This leaves out a lot of price data since high and low prices can vary greatly from closing prices. The use of only closing prices will reduce the amount of noise, but it also means the price could break significantly before a new box(es) forms and alerts the trader. By then it could be too late to get out with a manageable loss. Therefore, when using Renko charts, traders often still use stop loss orders at fixed prices, and won't rely solely on Renko signals.



Since this type of chart was designed to follow the general price trend of an asset, there can often be false signals where the color of the bricks changes too early, producing a whipsaw effect. This is why it's important to use Renko charts in conjunction with other forms of technical analysis.




How Do You Set Up a Renko Chart on Thinkorswim?
Thinkorswim is a popular brokerage and trading app from TD Ameritrade. Although candlestick charts are the default, you can easily set your account to display renko charts as well. Simply navigate to the "Chart Styles" menu and change the "Range Type" to Renko Bars. Then set the price range equal to the desired box size.




How Do You Set Up a Renko Chart on TradingView?
In order to access renko charts on TradingView, you need to have a paid subscription. Navigate to the chart menu in the top menu bar, and scroll down to "Renko." After that, go to the settings menu to select your desired box size.




How Do You Set the Box Size of a Renko Chart?
The best box size for a renko chart is determined, in part, by the trader's time horizon, risk tolerance, and trading goals. Larger box sizes are more appropriate for longer-term trading, but they also incur higher risks because they do not reflect smaller price movements that can accumulate over time.
What Is Rent Control?  

Rent control is a government program that places a limit on the amount that a landlord can demand for leasing a home or renewing a lease. Rent control laws are usually enacted by municipalities, and the details vary widely. All are intended to keep living costs affordable for lower-income residents.



Rent control is not widespread in the United States. According to a 2019 study by the Urban Institute, 182 municipalities in the U.S. have rent control regulations, and all of them are in New York, New Jersey, California, Maryland, or Washington, D.C.



In fact, 31 states have laws that preempt or forbid local governments from enacting rent control measures, as of Feb. 2022.



However, the issue of rent regulation has been revived in recent years, particularly in cities and states where spiraling costs of living combined with stagnant wages have created a housing affordability crisis for moderate-income residents and elderly people on fixed incomes.



Oregon is the first state in the U.S. to enact a statewide rent control law. The law, signed in March 2019, restricts annual rent increases to 7% plus the increase in the consumer price index.





Key Takeaways


Most rent control laws limit the amount that a landlord can increase rents on existing tenants.
Rent control is controversial. In fact, 31 states have laws that forbid local governments from enacting such measures.
In New York City, rent-controlled apartments are a desirable asset.
Rent stabilization is different from rent control.
Oregon became the first state in the U.S. to enact a statewide rent control law in 2019.



   How Rent Control Works  

The earliest rent control laws in the U.S. date to the 1920s and were often outright rent freezes. These generally proved unworkable. In the 1970s the idea of rent control surfaced again, this time in a more moderate form often called “rent stabilization.”



New York City, for example, has two rent control programs:



The older rent control program has been in the process of being phased out for decades. It placed severe limits on rental prices, but the only renters still covered by the law have been living since 1974 or earlier in buildings that were constructed before 1947.The 1970s-era rent stabilization program regulates prices in about half of the city’s rentals. The rents can only be increased for either one or two years, and the allowable percentage increases are set by the Rent Guidelines Board, whose nine members are appointed by the mayor. The rules and exceptions are labyrinthine and administered by a combination of city and state agencies. 



The high cost of living in New York City is frequently cited as proof enough that rent control doesn’t work. The average rent for a one-bedroom apartment in Manhattan was $5,022 for a doorman building and $3,417 for a non-doorman building as of Mar. 2022.






Rent control advocates such as the Urban Institute argue that price controls allow people with moderate incomes and elderly people with fixed incomes to remain in their homes as gentrification pushes prices up all around them.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Rent Control  

Rent control has always been controversial. The rent control regulations in cities today most commonly regulate price increases for lease renewals, not new tenants. That arguably has some benefits for landlords, who can charge whatever the market will bear on vacant apartments or, in the worst case, keep tenants who have every incentive to stay put and pay the rent on time.



The main arguments against rent control include:



Rent control reduces the supply of decent housing, as landlords would rather convert a building to condos or adapt it to commercial use than abide by a law that limits their profitsInvestment in new rental housing screeches to a haltMaintenance of buildings under rent control is lax or nonexistent because of the poor return on investment for landlords



The main arguments for regulation include:



Rental prices in many U.S. cities are rising far faster than wages for moderate-income jobsRent control may enable moderate-income families and people on fixed incomes to live decently and without fear of a personally catastrophic rent hikeNeighborhoods are safer and more stable with a base of long-term residents in rent-controlled apartments




What Does Rent Controlled Mean?
Rent control refers to an apartment whose rent has a limit on the amount that a landlord can charge. The limit is set by a government program, and rent control laws are put into place by local municipalities. Not all states or cities have them in place. When rent is "controlled" in such a way, a landlord can not unfairly raise the price of the rent year-to-year, and this may help keep some housing affordable for those who cannot afford a market or above-market rate home.




How Can I Get a Rent-Controlled Apartment?
Unfortunately, in most cases, including in New York City, unless a family member who lives in a rent-controlled apartment passes the lease down to you, they are not available to the general public, and rules surrounding the succession of a rent-controlled lease can be complex.




How Do I Know if My Apartment Is Rent Controlled?
If you live in a rent-controlled apartment you would know because the apartment would have been passed down in your immediate or extended family.
What Is Rent Seeking?  

Rent seeking (or rent-seeking) is an economic concept that occurs when an entity seeks to gain added wealth without any reciprocal contribution of productivity. Typically, it revolves around government-funded social services and social service programs.





Key Takeaways

Rent seeking is an economic concept that occurs when an entity seeks to gain wealth without any reciprocal contribution of productivity.“Rent” in rent seeking is based on the economic definition of the term, which is defined as economic wealth obtained through shrewd or potentially manipulative use of resources. A more colloquial way of describing this behavior is “privilege seeking.”An example of rent seeking is when a company lobbies the government for grants, subsidies, or tariff protection.Rent seeking comes in many forms from lobbying or donating funds.For example, if you donate money but write it off on your taxes, it could be considered a form of rent seeking.


   How Does Rent Seeking Work?  

The concept of rent seeking was established in 1967 by Gordon Tullock and popularized by Anne Krueger in 1974. It evolved from the studies of Adam Smith, who is often regarded as the father of economics. The concept is based on an economic definition of “rent,” defined as economic wealth obtained through shrewd or potentially manipulative use of resources.



Smith’s studies suggested that entities earn income from wages, profit, and rent. To create profit usually requires the risk of capital with the goal of gaining a return. Earning wages comes from employment. However, rent is the easiest to obtain of the three income sources and can require little risk.



Economic rent is the income earned from the utilization of resource ownership. Entities that own resources can lend them to earn interest rents, lease them to earn rental income, or utilize them in other income-producing ways.



In general, the term “economic rent” has evolved to mean receiving a payment that exceeds the costs involved in the associated resource. Entities, therefore, will take rent-seeking steps to obtain economic rent that requires no reciprocal contribution of production.






One example of rent seeking is when a company hires lobbyists to encourage the government to change regulations to make it easier for them to earn profits, vs. trying to spend time and money on improving their goods in the marketplace.


   Rent-Seeking Factors and Examples  

Rent seeking is a byproduct of political legislation and government funding. Politicians decide the laws, regulations, and funding allocations that govern industries and government subsidy distributions. These legislations and actions manifest rent-seeking behaviors by offering economic rent with little or no reciprocity.


  Business Rent Seekers  

Business social service programs are typically designed to provide aid for businesses with the goal of fostering economic prosperity.



For example, businesses such as banks can lobby the government for help in the areas of competition, special subsidies, grants, and tariff protection. If a business succeeds in getting laws passed to limit their competition, bail them out of economic hardship, or create barriers to entry for others, it can achieve economic rents without any added productivity or capital at risk.


  Licensing Requirements  

Lobbying for the lessening of occupational licensing requirements is another very specific example of rent seeking. Doctors, dentists, airline pilots, and many other fields require licensing to practice. However, in many U.S. states, this licensing process is expensive and time-consuming.



Often, regulations exist due to past lobbying efforts from existing industry members. If certification and license obligations prevent newcomers from competing, fewer professionals may share the revenue. Thus, a more significant portion of money accrues to each existing member without additional economic benefit. Also, since limits to competition can be a driver for prices, consumers may be required to pay more.


   Issues Arising from Rent Seeking  

Rent seeking can disrupt market efficiencies and create pricing disadvantages for market participants. It has been known to cause limited competition and high barriers to entry.



Those that benefit from successful rent seeking obtain added economic rents without any added obligations. This can potentially create unfair advantages, specifically providing wealth to certain businesses that lead to greater market share at the detriment of competitors.



Lastly, rent-seeking wealth is typically a function of taxpayer funding. These tax revenues are used to provide economic wealth for rent seekers but may or may not improve the economic climate or produce any benefits for taxpayers at large. This can lead to disparaging funds that lack regeneration and require higher taxes in the future.




Is rent seeking illegal?
In general, competition for rents is legal, regardless of any harm it may do to an economy. However, various rent-seeking behaviors are illegal, such as the forming of cartels or the bribing of politicians.




Why is rent seeking bad for the economy?
Rent seeking can make markets less efficient by creating price disadvantages for consumers or companies. Rent-seeking behavior can also create artificial bars to entry for new companies, stifling innovation.




Are landlords rent seekers?
Not generally. The use of the word “rent” can create some confusion here. The term “rent” in rent seeking is based on the economic definition of “rent,” which is defined as economic wealth obtained through shrewd or potentially manipulative use of resources. That said, it’s possible for landlords to engage in rent-seeking behavior.


   The Bottom Line  

Rent seeking is an economic concept that occurs when an entity seeks to gain wealth without any reciprocal contribution of productivity. An example of rent seeking is when a company lobbies the government for grants, subsidies, or tariff protection.



Rent seeking comes in many forms from lobbying or donating funds. For example, if you donate money but write it off on your taxes, it could be considered a form of rent seeking. Rent seeking interferes with the efficient operation of the free market, and it imposes unfair prices and barriers on individuals and companies.
What Is Renters Insurance?  

Renters insurance refers to property insurance that protects tenants who live in a rented dwelling. Coverage is provided by insurance companies in exchange for premiums paid by people living in apartments, single-family homes, and condominiums. Policies provide coverage for an insured party's personal property as well as liability claims that are not due to a structural problem with the property. These kinds of policies also cover living expenses that need to be paid out when someone makes an insurance claim after their unit is damaged. Although renters insurance isn't a legal requirement, some landlords prefer their tenants to have some type of coverage.





Key Takeaways


Renters insurance is a form of property insurance that protects tenants who live in a rented dwelling.
Policies cover personal property, liability claims, and additional living expenses when a unit is damaged.
Although it isn't a legal requirement, some landlords require proof of renters insurance before they hand over the keys.
Renters insurance doesn't cover floods or earthquakes.
Landlord's insurance does not cover the personal property of any tenant living on site.



   How Renters Insurance Works  

Insurance policies cover different types of losses. Life insurance provides a death benefit for a certain amount to an insured party's beneficiaries. Health insurance mitigates the costs associated with routine and unexpected medical expenses. There are also insurance policies that cover properties. For instance, homeowners insurance protects policyholders against damage to their homes, belongings, as well as any claims filed against them by others for injuries sustained while on the premises.



Renters insurance is a common form of property insurance that tenants take out when they rent a home, townhouse, apartment, condo, room, or another type of dwelling. It's also available to anyone who sublets a property from another tenant. Policies vary based on the type of coverage a renter chooses—the higher the coverage, the higher the premium.



These kinds of policies protect the insured party against losses to their personal property within the dwelling as a result of loss from theft, fire, and other types of disastrous loss events. The amount of coverage depends You should buy enough renters insurance to replace all of your personal possessions in the event of a loss event. The easiest way to determine this amount is to create a detailed list of all of your belongings with estimated values.


   Additional Living Expenses  

Policies also provide financial protection against liability claims and additional living expenses (ALEs). Policyholders are covered against lawsuits for bodily injury or property damage done by the renter, their family members, and pets. It also covers legal defense costs up to the limit of a policy. Additional living expenses coverage provides financial protection against an insured disaster that makes it necessary to temporarily live somewhere else. 



The coverage pays for hotel bills, temporary rentals, meals, and other costs while a rental home is being repaired or rebuilt. Most policies reimburse the insured for the full difference between the additional expenses and their normal living expenses. There is, however, either a dollar limit on the total amount an insurer will pay or a time limit on the ALE payments.


   Renters Insurance and Valuation  

Renters can choose between replacement cost value (RCV) or actual cash value (ACV) coverage. The type of coverage for each policy may be substantially different based on how the policy calculates the value in what was lost.



If you have an ACV policy, the insurance company will reimburse you for the value of your belongings at the time of the loss, taking into account depreciation and wear and tear. For example, if your five-year-old laptop gets stolen, the insurance company will consider its current market value which will probably be significantly lower than the original purchase price. As a result, the payout under an ACV policy might not be enough to replace your belongings with new items.



If you have an RCV policy, the insurance company will reimburse you for the cost of replacing your belongings with new items of similar kind and quality, without considering depreciation. In the same example of the stolen laptop, an RCV policy would provide the funds needed to purchase a new laptop with similar specifications to the one that was stolen, even if the cost exceeds the value of the depreciated laptop.






Proof of renters insurance is required by many landlords. Without this coverage, the tenant is responsible for the loss out of pocket.


   Renter's Insurance vs. Landlord's Insurance  

Renters insurance is designed to protect tenants or renters. It covers the personal belongings and liability of the tenant. If a covered event such as theft, fire, or water damage damages or destroys the tenant's personal property, renters insurance can provide compensation for the loss.



Landlord's insurance, also known as landlord insurance or dwelling insurance, is designed to protect the property owner or landlord. This insurance policy covers the physical structure of the rental property such as the building, roof, walls, and fixtures. It also provides liability coverage for the landlord if a tenant or visitor is injured on the property and holds the landlord responsible.



The important takeaway here is landlord's insurance does not cover the personal belongings of the tenants. Personal belongings of the tenant are the responsibility of the individual tenants through their own renters insurance.






Make sure your renters insurance policy includes no-fault medical coverage as part of the liability protection, which allows individuals who are injured on your property to submit their medical bills directly to the insurance company in lieu of a lawsuit.


   Renters Insurance vs. Other Policies  

Although most renters insurance policies cover losses from fire or smoke, lightning, vandalism, theft, explosion, windstorm, and certain types of water damage, the majority don't cover floods or earthquakes.



Flood insurance is available from the National Flood Insurance Program and a few private insurers. Earthquake insurance may be purchased separately or added as an endorsement to an existing renters policy. For example, in California—obviously a high-risk state for earthquakes—the legislature created the nonprofit California Earthquake Authority to help people get affordable coverage.




Can I Get Renters Insurance If I Live With Roommates?
Yes, you can get renters insurance when living with roommates. However, it's essential to discuss the coverage with your insurance provider, as individual policies might be needed to ensure each person's belongings are adequately protected.




Is Renters Insurance Mandatory by Law?
Renters insurance is not usually mandatory by law, but some landlords may require it as a condition of the lease agreement. Even if it's not required, having renters insurance is highly recommended to protect your belongings and liability.




Can I Transfer My Renters Insurance to a New Apartment?
Yes, most renters insurance policies can be transferred to a new apartment or rental property. Inform your insurance provider about the move and update the address on your policy to ensure continuous coverage. Should you end up buying a property, be mindful that you'll have to cancel your renters insurance in favor of homeowner's insurance.




Can I Cancel My Renters Insurance at Any Time?
es, you can cancel your renters insurance at any time by notifying your insurance provider. Keep in mind that you may lose coverage for any future incidents if you cancel before the policy term expires. In addition, you can enter into coverage during any time of the month.


   The Bottom Line  

Renters insurance is a policy that protects tenants' personal belongings and provides liability coverage. It safeguards against financial loss due to theft, fire, or other covered events and offers liability protection if someone is injured in the rental unit. Though not always required, it is covered that is needed by renters looking for coverage as landlord policies do not cover tenant personal belongings.
What Is a Reorganization?  

A reorganization is a significant and disruptive overhaul of a troubled business intended to restore it to profitability. It may include shutting down or selling divisions, replacing management, cutting budgets, and laying off workers.



A supervised reorganization is the focus of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy process, during which a company is required to submit a plan for how it hopes to recover and repay some if not all of its obligations.


   Understanding Reorganization  

The function of a bankruptcy court is to give an insolvent company the chance to submit a reorganization plan. If approved, the company can continue to operate and postpone paying its most pressing debts until a later date.





Key Takeaways

A court-supervised reorganization is the focus of Chapter 11 bankruptcy, which aims to restore a company to profitability and enable it to pay its debts.A company in financial trouble but not bankrupt may seek to revive the business through a reorganization.In either case, reorganization means drastic changes to the company's operations and management and steep cuts in spending.



To get the approval of a bankruptcy judge, the reorganization plan must include drastic steps to reduce costs and increase revenue. If the plan is rejected or is approved but does not succeed, the company is forced into liquidation. Its assets will be sold and distributed to its creditors.



A reorganization requires a restatement of the company's assets and liabilities as well as negotiations with major creditors to set schedules for repayment.


  Drastic Changes  

Reorganization can include a change in the structure or ownership of a company through a merger or consolidation, spinoff acquisition, transfer, recapitalization, a change in name, or a change in management. This part of a reorganization is known as restructuring.






A reorganization to stave off bankruptcy may have a favorable outcome for shareholders. A reorganization in bankruptcy is usually bad news for shareholders.



Not all reorganizations are overseen by a bankruptcy court. The management of an unprofitable company may impose a drastic series of budget cuts, staff layoffs, management ousters, and product line revisions with the aim of restoring the health of the company. In such cases, the company is not yet in bankruptcy and is hoping to stave it off. This is sometimes called a structural reorganization.


  Supervised Reorganization  

When supervised by a court during bankruptcy proceedings, a reorganization focuses on restructuring a company's finances. The company is temporarily protected from claims by creditors for full repayment of outstanding debts.



Once the bankruptcy court approves the reorganization plan, the company will restructure its finances, operations, management and whatever else is deemed necessary to revive it. It also will begin paying its creditors according to a revised schedule.


  Chapter 11 vs. Chapter 7  

U.S. bankruptcy law gives public companies the option of reorganizing rather than liquidating. Through the terms of Chapter 11 bankruptcy, firms can renegotiate their debts to try to get better terms. The business continues operating and works toward repaying its debts.



The process is complex and expensive. Firms that have no hope of reorganization go through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, also called liquidation bankruptcy.


  Who Loses During Reorganization?  

A court-supervised reorganization is typically bad for shareholders and creditors, who may lose part or all of their investments.



Even if the company emerges successfully from the reorganization, it may issue new shares, which will wipe out the previous shareholders.



If the reorganization is unsuccessful, the company will liquidate and sell off any remaining assets. Shareholders are last in line to receive any proceeds and receive nothing unless money is left over after repaying creditors, senior lenders, bondholders, and preferred stock shareholders in full.


  Structural Reorganization  

A reorganization by a company that is in trouble but not yet in bankruptcy is more likely to be good news for shareholders. Its focus is to improve company performance, not stave off creditors. It often follows the entrance of a new CEO.



In some cases, the second type of reorganization is a precursor to the first. If the company’s attempt at reorganizing through something like a merger is unsuccessful, it might next try to reorganize through Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
What Is Repackaging in Private Equity?  

Repackaging in the private equity industry is when a private equity firm buys all the stock in a troubled public company, thus taking the company private with the intention of revamping its operations and re-selling it at a profit.



For some years, the primary goal of repackaging was to prepare a company for a return to the market with an initial public offering (IPO). More recently, private equity firms have found other ways of maximizing their profits that involve less regulatory and shareholder scrutiny.





Key Takeaways

Repackaging in private equity is when a private equity firm acquires all the stock in an ailing public company and revamps the company in hopes of making it more profitable.If a repackaging in private equity operation is successful, the private equity firm may re-introduce the company to the stock market in an initial public offering (IPO).The capital used to purchase a company for a repackaging is most often borrowed money, which is commonly known as a leveraged buyout.


   How Repackaging in Private Equity Works  

A private equity firm looks for a company that is unprofitable or underperforming and buys it outright in the belief that the business can be turned around. Once the company is no longer public, the private equity firm can take whatever measures it thinks will be effective, such as selling off divisions, replacing management, or slashing overhead costs.



Its goal may be to take the revamped company public with a new initial public offering (IPO), to sell the company outright to another private buyer, or to merge it with another larger entity or entities. In any case, if the repackaging succeeds, the private equity firm will make more money than it spent reviving the company.



Most of the money used to purchase the company is borrowed as opposed to the cash on hand at the firm. Thus, the transaction is usually termed a leveraged buyout.


   Cashing in on Repackaging  

Repackaging with an eye to launching a new initial public offering has been a lucrative business for private equity firms. There were 22 IPOs brought to the market by private equity buyout firms in 2020, for an exit value of $74.5 billion.



However, this strategy appears to have lost its luster for the most part. The number of initial public offerings brought to the market by private equity firms has been in decline since 2013, with a slight uptick in 2018 and then a surge in 2020.



Private equity firms appear to have found easier and more lucrative ways to cash in on their acquisitions, considering the government, regulatory, and shareholder scrutiny that public companies face.



Burger King, for example, had a long string of corporate owners, including the Pillsbury Company, before it was bought in 2002 by TPG Capital. The investment group retooled the company and launched a successful initial public offering in 2006. Only four years later, in the midst of the Great Recession, Burger King was in trouble again. It was taken private again in a buyout by 3G Capital.



Today, Burger King is a subsidiary of Restaurant Brands International, a fast-food conglomerate that is headquartered in Toronto, Canada, but majority-owned by 3G, a Brazilian company. The conglomerate also owns the Canadian coffee shop chain Tim Hortons and the fried chicken chain Popeyes.


   Real-World Examples  

Private equity repackagings are far and wide and include Panera Bread, the bakery restaurant chain, and Staples, the business supplies store.



Panera Bread was taken private in 2017 by BDT Capital Partners and JAB Holding Co. in a buyout that cost $7.5 billion. The combined equity firms had previously bought Peet's Coffee and Tea and Krispy Kreme Doughnuts. As of 2021, Panera Bread may go public again as JAB just completed an $800 million refinancing deal on the business.



Staples was bought by Sycamore Partners for $6.9 billion, also in 2017. Staples had previously acquired its one-time rival, OfficeMax, and was worth approximately $19 billion in 2010, showing just how much the company had slipped. It has been assumed that Sycamore was going to exit its investment in Staples in 2020 through an IPO but that has yet to happen.
What Does Repatriable Mean?  

Repatriable refers to the ability to move liquid financial assets from a foreign country to an investor's country of origin.





Key Takeaways

Repatriable refers to the ability to move liquid financial assets from a foreign country to an investor's country of origin.The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) and the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) impose reporting requirements on foreign financial institutions (FFIs) and on U.S. persons about foreign financial accounts and foreign asset holdings.Repatriable, as a stand-alone term, is unusual in the U.S. finance lexicon, except among English-speaking Indians.


   Understanding Repatriable  

Repatriable financial assets are financial assets capable of being withdrawn from an account in a foreign country and being deposited to an account in an investor’s country of residence or citizenship and, if the financial asset is a currency, its conversion from foreign currency to home country currency.



Repatriable describes something as capable of repatriation. Repatriation brings back home something brought to or acquired in a foreign country. Something is repatriable if the laws of both the foreign and home country permit and don’t impede their repatriation.



Repatriation laws can impede or encourage foreign investment and cross-border currency flow. Repatriation is impeded to and from countries with tight currency borders and highly regulated foreign investment. Repatriation is also stifled to and from countries that otherwise freely permit repatriation but subject it to taxation, monitoring or access, and timing restrictions.



An example of monitoring regulations is found in the United States. The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) and the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) impose reporting requirements on foreign financial institutions (FFIs) and on U.S. persons about foreign financial accounts and foreign asset holdings. The United States also imposes taxes on foreign earned income, albeit reduced by the Foreign Tax Credit. This taxation dis-incentivizes repatriation and has driven many U.S. companies and investors to park their foreign earned income abroad and offshore. Congress recently amended U.S. tax law to provide tax changes hoped to encourage U.S. corporations to repatriate the parked funds to the United States.


   Repatriable Dividends  

Repatriable dividends are dividends capable of being paid by a foreign corporation to a U.S. corporation. Foreign direct investment (FDI) in majority American-owned foreign corporations, known as controlled foreign corporations (CFCs), may be subject to foreign tax but are generally not subject to U.S. tax until dividends are paid to their controlling U.S. parent companies, and they are thus repatriated. The repatriated dividends are then subjected to the (sometimes higher) U.S. tax rate minus the foreign tax credit.


   Repatriable NRE and FCNR-B Accounts in India for NRIs  

Repatriable, as a stand-alone term, is unusual in the U.S. finance lexicon, except among English speaking Indians. India has enacted foreign direct investment (FDI) and repatriation laws to encourage investment, currency and asset inflow to India, particularly from its citizens working abroad. These laws establish financial accounts at Indian financial institutions exclusively for non-resident Indians (NRIs).



These NRI-only accounts are designated by law as repatriable or non-repatriable. NRIs may choose between two types of repatriable deposit savings accounts: the non-resident external account (NRE Account) and the foreign currency non-resident bank deposits (FCNR-B Account). The funds in these accounts can be repatriated by transferring them back to the NRIs country of residence or by converting to any foreign currency. NRIs may also choose a Non-Resident Ordinary Rupee Account (NRO Account). An NRO account is a non-repatriable account, meaning its funds cannot be transferred back to the NRIs country of residence nor can they be converted to any foreign currency.



Please note that under Indian law, both the NRE and FCNR-B Accounts accept foreign currency deposits but any foreign currency deposited to an NRE Account is converted to INR. Indian law also permits some of these accounts to be owned by persons of Indian origin (PIOs) or to be jointly owned by an NRI with a PIO or an Indian resident.
What Is Repatriation?  

The term repatriation refers to the conversion or exchange of foreign currency into someone's home currency. In a larger context, the term refers to anything or anyone that returns to its country of origin, which can include foreign nationals, refugees, or deportees. In most cases, in the financial industry, it involves moving money back after someone returns home after living or working abroad.



Repatriation is also a common occurrence in other areas of the financial sector, such as business transactions, foreign investments, or international travel. The act of repatriating currency can result in losses and certain risks, including foreign exchange risks.





Key Takeaways

Repatriation refers to the conversion of any foreign currency into one’s local currency. It may become necessary to repatriate money because of business transactions, foreign investments, or international travel.Repatriation usually refers to the conversion of offshore capital back to the currency of the country in which a corporation is based in the corporate world.Repatriating currency can result in losses and comes with certain risks, such as foreign currency risks. Taxpayers in the U.S. must pay a transition tax when they repatriate any money earned overseas. 


   Understanding Repatriation  

Repatriation is a process that occurs when people return to their home country after living, visiting, or working abroad. For instance, someone from Canada may take a contract job in the United Kingdom for two years. When their contract is up, they may decide to return home. The act of returning home is known as repatriation.



This process also applies to the financial industry. For instance, repatriation commonly refers to the conversion of offshore capital back to the home currency of a corporation. In the global economy, many corporations based in the United States generate earnings abroad. There are legal steps corporations take to repatriate their currency, including:



Share repurchasing
Loans
Dividend programs
Repayment of capital



Individuals might also repatriate funds. For example, Americans returning from a visit to Japan typically repatriate their currency, converting any remaining yen into U.S. dollars. The number of dollars they receive when they exchange their remaining yen will depend on the exchange rate between the two currencies at the time of the repatriation.






Many companies choose not to repatriate their offshore earnings in order to avoid corporate taxes charged on repatriated funds.


   Special Considerations  

American taxpayers, including individuals and corporations, have historically been taxed on any income they earned abroad. This includes any foreign income earned and repatriated. For example, U.S. corporations were taxed for dividends issued by a foreign subsidiary. Tax rates for repatriated currency were as high as 35%.



This changed following the signing of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) by President Donald Trump in late 2017. Once signed, the law cut the corporate repatriation tax, which is referred to as a transition tax, from that rate of 35%. It allowed U.S. companies to repatriate money earned overseas at 15.5% for any foreign earnings held in cash and cash equivalents and 8% for any foreign income that doesn't fall in this category.



These changes could bring in as much as $340 billion between 2018 and 2027 in tax revenue. U.S. corporations repatriated $777 billion of cash stored overseas in 2018, according to the Federal Reserve.


   Repatriation Risks  

Companies that operate in more than one country generally accept the local currency of the economy that they transact business. When a company earns income in foreign currencies, the earnings are subject to foreign exchange risk, meaning they could potentially lose or gain in value based on fluctuations in the value of either currency.



For example, though Apple (AAPL) is a U.S.-based corporation, an Apple store in France accepts euros as payment for product sales since the euro is the currency used in France. If Apple earned one million euros from product sales in France at an exchange rate of 1.15 dollars per euro, the earnings would equal $1.15 million or (one million euros x 1.15). But if it earned one million euros during the next quarter and the exchange fell to 1.10 dollars per euro, the earnings would equal $1.1 million or (1.1 million euros x 1.10).



In other words, Apple would lose $50,000 in earnings based on the exchange rate decline despite having the same amount in sales in euros for both quarters. The volatility or fluctuations in the exchange rate is called foreign exchange risk, which companies are exposed to when they do business internationally. As a result, the volatility in exchange rates can impact a company's earnings.






Some U.S. corporations repatriate funds from overseas translating the cash into U.S. dollars. These funds are typically used to invest in new technologies and fixed assets like property, plant, and equipment (PP&E).


   Example of Repatriation  

At the time that the TCJA was passed, Apple had the largest amount of cash holdings abroad of any U.S. company. Following the changes made to the U.S. tax laws with the passing of the act, the company said it was bringing home roughly all of the $250 billion held overseas. As a result, Apple agreed to a one-time tax payment to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of $38 billion to repatriate its foreign cash holdings.




How Much Money Has Been Repatriated Since 2000?
Billions of dollars have been repatriated back to the United States since 2000. As much as $777 billion in cash stored overseas was repatriated by corporations back to the United States in 2018, according to the Federal Reserve. This was largely due to the passing of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which lowered the transition tax for corporations that wanted to exchange their foreign-held currency into U.S. dollars.




Which Corporations Repatriate the Most Money?
Some of the largest American corporations repatriate the most money. For instance, Apple was considered to have the largest amount of cash held overseas. Following the passing of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the company said it would repatriate as much as $250 billion held in foreign countries back to the United States.




What Is the Meaning of the Word Repatriation?
In a general context, repatriation commonly refers to the act of anyone or anything returning home from another country. In the financial world, repatriation occurs when a taxpaying entity transfers money earned overseas back to the country where it is based. This can refer to a corporation that earns money from a foreign subsidiary or an individual who has investments, earned income, or money accumulated during travels abroad.
What Is Repayment?  

Repayment is the act of paying back money previously borrowed from a lender. Typically, the return of funds happens through periodic payments, which include both principal and interest. The principal refers to the original sum of money borrowed in a loan. Interest is the charge for the privilege of borrowing money; a borrower must pay interest for the ability to use the funds released to them through the loan. Loans can usually also be fully paid in a lump sum at any time, though some contracts may include an early repayment fee.



Common types of loans that many people need to repay include auto loans, mortgages, education loans, and credit card charges. Businesses also enter into debt agreements which can also include auto loans, mortgages, and lines of credit, along with bond issuances and other types of structured corporate debt. Failure to keep up with any debt repayments can lead to a trail of credit issues including forced bankruptcy, increased charges from late payments, and negative changes to a credit rating.





Key Takeaways

Repayment is the act of paying back money borrowed from a lender.Repayment terms on a loan are detailed in the loan’s agreement which also includes the contracted interest rate.Federal student loans and mortgages are among the most common types of loans individuals end up repaying.All types of distressed borrowers may have several options if they are unable to make regular payments.


   How Repayment Works  

When consumers take out loans, the expectation by the lender is that they will ultimately be able to repay them. Interest rates are charged based on a contracted rate and schedule for the time that passes between when a loan was given out and when the borrower returns the money in full. Interest is usually expressed as an annual percentage rate (APR).



Some borrowers who cannot repay loans may turn to bankruptcy protection. However, borrowers should explore every alternative before declaring bankruptcy. (Bankruptcy can affect a borrower's ability to obtain financing in the future.) Alternatives to bankruptcy are earning additional income, refinancing, obtaining support through assistance programs, and negotiating with creditors.



The structuring of some repayment schedules may depend on the type of loan taken out and the lending institution. The small print on most loan applications will specify what the borrower should do if they are unable to make a scheduled payment. It is best to be proactive and reach out to the lender to explain any existing circumstances. Let the lender know of any setbacks such as health events or employment problems which may affect the ability to pay. In these cases, some lenders may offer special terms for hardships.


   Types of Repayment  
  Federal Student Loans  

Federal student loans generally allow for a lower payment amount, postponed payments and, in some cases, loan forgiveness. These types of loans provide repayment flexibility and access to various student loan refinancing options as the recipient's life changes. This flexibility can be especially helpful if a recipient faces a health or financial crisis.



Standard payments are the best option. Standard means regular payments—at the same monthly amount—until the loan plus interest is paid off. With regular payments, satisfying the debt happens in the least amount of time. Also, as an added benefit, this method accrues the least amount of interest. For most federal student loans, this means a 10-year period of repayment.



Other options include extended and graduated payment plans. Both involve paying back the loan over a longer period than with the standard option. Unfortunately, extended timeframes go hand in hand with the accrual of additional months of interest charges which will eventually need a repayment.



Extended repayment plans are just like standard repayment plans, except that the borrower has up to 25 years to pay back the money. Because they have longer to pay back the money, the monthly bills are lower. However, because they are taking longer to pay back the money, those bothersome interest fees are compounding the debt.



Graduated payment plans, just like with a graduated payment mortgage (GPM), have payments that increase from a low initial rate to a higher rate over time. In the case of student loans, this is meant to reflect the idea that long term, borrowers are expected to move into higher-paying jobs. This method can be a real benefit to those who have little money straight out of college, as income-driven plans may start at $0 per month. However, once again, the borrower ends up paying more in the long term because more interest accrues over time. The longer the payments are drawn out, the more interest is added to the loan (the total loan value increases as well).



Also, the student may research their access to particular scenarios such as teaching in a low-income area or working for a nonprofit organization which may make them eligible for student loan forgiveness.


  Home Mortgages  

Homeowners have multiple options to avoid foreclosure due to delinquent mortgage repayment.



A borrower with an adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) may attempt refinancing to a fixed-rate mortgage with a lower interest rate. If the problem with payments is temporary, the borrower may pay the loan servicer the past-due amount plus late fees and penalties by a set a date for reinstatement.



If a mortgage goes into forbearance, payments are reduced or suspended for a set time. Regular payments then resume along with a lump sum payment or additional partial payments for a set time until the loan is current.



With a loan modification, one or more of the terms in the mortgage contract is altered to become more manageable. Changing the interest rate, extending the loan term, or adding missed payments to the loan balance may occur. Modification may also reduce the amount of money owed by forgiving a portion of the mortgage.



In some situations, selling the home may be the best option to pay off a mortgage, and may help to avoid bankruptcy.


   Special Considerations  
  Forbearance and Consolidation  

Some debt may receive forbearance, which allows loan recipients who missed payments to recover and restart repayments. Also, various deferment options are available for recipients who are unemployed or who are not earning enough income to meet their repayment obligations. Once again, it is best to be proactive with the lender and inform them of life events that impact your ability to satisfy the loan.



For recipients with multiple federal student loans or those individuals with several credit cards or other loans, consolidation may be another option. Loan consolidation combines the separate debts into one loan with a fixed interest rate and a single monthly payment. Borrowers may be given a more extended repayment period with a reduced number of monthly payments. A final alternative to consolidation is debt relief, an opportunity to have a company negotiate a lower repayment amount on your behalf.


   Example of Repayment  

In February 2019, Public News Service published an article about the growing number of people in Colorado seeking student loan forgiveness. At the same time, the state is experiencing a shortage in mental health providers to meet the needs of its residents.



Colorado's shortage of mental health providers means that approximately 70% of the residents seeking mental or behavioral health care are not receiving those services. Minimum federal standards require that there be at least one psychiatrist for every 30,000 residents. At the time that the article was published, Colorado was seeking to add more than 90 mental health professionals in order to reach that threshold.



One of the ways health centers have been addressing the shortage is by tapping new federal and state student loan forgiveness programs to team up with skilled providers who are looking to reduce their student loan debt. Administrators there expect that the prospect of being able to cut thousands of dollars in medical-school debt should help draw and maintain high-quality providers, particularly for the parts of the state that are the most underserved.
What Is a Replacement Cost?  

Replacement cost is a term referring to the amount of money a business must currently spend to replace an essential asset like a real estate property, an investment security, a lien, or another item, with one of the same or higher value. Sometimes referred to as a "replacement value," a replacement cost may fluctuate, depending on factors such as the market value of components used to reconstruct or repurchase the asset and the expenses involved in preparing assets for use. Insurance companies routinely use replacement costs to determine the value of an insured item. Replacement costs are likewise ritually used by accountants, who rely on depreciation to expense the cost of an asset over its useful life. The practice of calculating a replacement cost is known as "replacement valuation."



Replacing an asset can be an expensive decision, and companies analyze the net present value (NPV) of the future cash inflows and outflows to make purchasing decisions. Once an asset is purchased, the company determines a useful life for the asset and depreciates the asset's cost over the useful life.





Key Takeaways

The replacement cost is an amount that a company pays to replace an essential asset that is priced at the same or equal value.The cost to replace an asset can change, depending on variations in the market value of components used to reconstruct or repurchase the asset and other costs needed to get the asset ready for use.Companies look at the net present value and depreciation costs when deciding which assets need to be replaced and whether the cost is worth the expense.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Understanding Replacement Costs  

As part of the process of determining what asset is in need of replacement and what the value of the asset is, companies use a process called net present value. To make a decision about an expensive asset purchase, companies first decide on a discount rate, which is an assumption about a minimum rate of return on any company investment.



A business then considers the cash outflow for the purchase and the cash inflows generated based on the increased productivity of using a new and more productive asset. The cash inflows and outflow are adjusted to present value using the discount rate, and if the net total of all present values is a positive amount, the company makes the purchase.






The cost to replace an asset can change, depending on variations in the market value of the asset and other costs needed to get the asset ready for use.


   Special Considerations  

When calculating the replacement cost of an asset, a company must account for depreciation costs. A business capitalizes an asset purchase by posting the cost of a new asset to an asset account, and the asset account is depreciated over the asset’s useful life. Depreciation matches the revenue earned by using the asset at the expense of using the asset over time. The cost of the asset includes all costs to prepare the asset for use, such as insurance costs and the cost of setup.



Some assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis, meaning the cost of the asset is divided by the useful life to determine the annual depreciation amount. Other assets are depreciated on an accelerated basis so more depreciation is recognized in the early years and less in later years. The total depreciation expense recognized over the asset’s useful life is the same, regardless of which method is used.


  Replacement Cost Budgeting  

Given the cost of replacing expensive assets, well-managed firms create a capital expenditure budget to plan for both future asset purchases and for how the firm will generate cash inflows to pay for the new assets. Budgeting for asset purchases is critical because replacing assets is required to operate the business. A manufacturer, for example, budgets for equipment and machine replacement, and a retailer budgets to update the look of each store.
What Is a Replacement Rate?  

A replacement rate is the percentage of a worker's pre-retirement income that is paid out by a pension program after the worker retires. In pension systems that pay workers substantially different payouts based on their differing incomes, the replacement rate is a common measurement that can be used to determine the effectiveness of the pension system.



More generally, a retirement replacement rate is the percentage of a person's pre-retirement income that will be needed for the person to maintain the desired standard of living after retiring. The calculation should be based on all sources of income including Social Security, pension, retirement savings plan, and any other sources. 


   Understanding Replacement Rates  

The replacement rate, also referred to as the income replacement rate, serves as a way to measure the percentage of a worker's current income that a particular pension-based retirement plan can be expected to produce.



Replacement rates are commonly mentioned in the debate over the U.S. Social Security system. Under Social Security law, replacement rates should target about 40% of the replacement rate for the average retiree. As some workers have retirement plans or benefits beyond the Social Security benefit, this replacement rate may only be one portion of the funds available at retirement.



Income replacement needs vary from individual to individual. The amount requires an analysis of the standard of living the person wishes to maintain and an understanding of the costs required to maintain that standard. For example, if two employees earn the same annual pay of $100,000, but one requires $45,000 per year to maintain the desired standard of living while the other requires $60,000, the replacement rates for those individuals will be 45% and 60% respectively.





Key Takeaways

Replacement rate refers to the percentage of an individual's annual employment income that is replaced by retirement income when they retire.Replacement rates are often lower than 100% since older individuals are thought to have fewer living costs and expenses, such as a mortgage or children to raise.Social Security in the United States along with private pensions and withdrawals from qualified retirement accounts like 401(k) plans all may contribute to an individual's replacement rate.


   Replacement Rates and Pensions  

Pension plans, also referred to as defined benefit plans, provide a specified benefit to employees. Often, these calculations are based on the number of years each employee has worked for the organization, allowing for a certain percentage of replacement rate credit per year of service.



Upon retirement, an eligible employee can receive benefits calculated based on the total earned replacement rate as compared to the average annual salary received over a particular period of time.



While these types of pensions can be offered by a variety of organizations, they are more commonly seen today in the public sector, such as government employees, instead of the private sector.
What Is a Representative Sample?  

A representative sample is a subset of a population that seeks to accurately reflect the characteristics of the larger group. For example, a classroom of 30 students with 15 males and 15 females could generate a representative sample that might include six students: three males and three females. Samples are useful in statistical analysis when population sizes are large because they contain smaller, manageable versions of the larger group.





Key Takeaways

A representative sample is one technique that can be used for obtaining insights and observations about a targeted population group.A representative sample is a small subset group that seeks to proportionally reflect specified characteristics exemplified in a target population.For large surveys, researchers may divide the population into strata according to ethnic markers, gender characteristics, age groups, income, or geographical locations to ensure that they are using a representative sample.In the U.S., the Census Bureau conducts several surveys of the business and demographic environments, using representative samples to ensure accurate coverage. Representative samples often yield the best results but they can be the most difficult type of sample to obtain.












Investopedia / Danie Drankwalter


   Understanding Representative Samples  

Sampling is used in statistical analysis methodologies to gain insights and observations about a population group. Statisticians can use a variety of sampling methods to build samples that seek to meet the goals of their research studies. Representative samples are one type of sampling method. This method uses stratified random sampling to help identify its components. Other methods can include random sampling and systematic sampling.






A representative sample seeks to choose components that match with key characteristics in the entire population being examined.



Statisticians can choose the representative characteristics that they feel best meet their research goals. Typically, representative sample characteristics are focused on demographic categories. Some examples of key characteristics can include sex, age, education level, socioeconomic status, and marital status. Generally, the larger the population being examined, the more characteristics that may arise for consideration.


   Types of Sampling Methods  

Choosing a sampling method can depend on a variety of factors. Representative samples are usually an ideal choice for sampling analysis because they are expected to yield insights and observations that closely align with the entire population group.



When a sample is not representative, it can be known as a random sample. While random sampling is a simplified sampling approach, it comes with a higher risk of sampling error which can potentially lead to incorrect results or strategies that can be costly. Random sampling can choose its components completely at random, such as choosing names randomly from a list. Using the classroom example again, a random sample could include six male students.



Systematic sampling is another type of sampling method that seeks to systemize its components. This type of sampling may include choosing every fifth person from a population list to gather a sample. While this method takes a systematic approach, it is still likely to result in a random sample.


   Stratified Random Sampling  

Stratified random sampling can be an important part of the process in creating a representative sample. Stratified random sampling examines the characteristics of a population group and breaks down the population into what is known as strata. Dividing out the population by strata helps an analyst to easily choose the appropriate number of individuals from each stratum based on proportions of the population. While this method is more time consuming—and often more costly as it requires more upfront information—the information yielded is typically of higher quality.






One example of representative sampling is the American Community Survey, an annual study of the nation's key demographic characteristics. In order to ensure a representative sample, the Census Bureau stratifies the population according to county, living situation, and other demographic features. This ensures that the sampled population is an accurate snapshot of the population as a whole.


   Special Considerations  

A representative sample is generally expected to yield the best collection of results. Representative samples are known for collecting results, insights, and observations that can be confidently relied on as a representation of the larger population being studied. As such, representative sampling is typically the best method for marketing or psychology studies.



While representative samples are often the sampling method of choice, they do have some barriers. Oftentimes, it is impractical in terms of time, budget, and effort to collect the data needed to build a representative sample. Using stratified random sampling, researchers must identify characteristics, divide the population into strata, and proportionally choose individuals for the representative sample.



In general, the larger the population target to be studied the more difficult representative sampling can be. This method can be especially difficult for an extremely large population such as an entire country or race. When dealing with large populations it can also be difficult to obtain the desired members for participation. For example, individuals who are too busy to participate will be under-represented in the representative sample. Understanding the pros and cons of both representative sampling and random sampling can help researchers select the best approach for their specific study.




What Is the Best Way to Avoid Sampling Bias?
The simplest way to avoid sampling bias is to use a simple random sample, where each member of the population has an equal chance of being included in the sample. While this type of sample is statistically the most reliable, it is still possible to get a biased sample due to chance or sampling error.




How Do You Ensure a Representative Sample?
In order to ensure that their are sampling an accurate cross-section of the population, researchers will sometimes use systematic or stratified sampling methods to ensure that the sample resembles the known features of the population. For example, if the subject population is 55% male and 45% female, they will deliberately choose a sample that is 55% male. Note that this method requires the researchers to have a certain level of certainty about the population being sampled.




What Are the Downsides of Representative Sampling?
Like other statistical tools, representative sampling can sometimes produce biased or inaccurate results. Moreover, the time and cost of creating a representative sample may be prohibitive, especially if the population is spread out over a wide geographical area. There may also be self-selection bias, if some members of the sample fail to respond to the researchers' attempts to make contact.


   The Bottom Line  

A representative sample is a statistical snapshot that is used to make inferences about a wider population. While it is possible to get accurate results from a simple random sample, a representative sample is one that shares the same demographic characteristic of the larger population. These samples are more difficult to create but can lead to more accurate analysis, especially for a large study.
What Is Repudiation?  

Repudiation involves disputing the validity of a contract and refusing to honor its terms. In investing, repudiation is most relevant in fixed income securities, particularly sovereign debt. Fixed income instruments are fundamentally contracts where the borrower lends a certain amount of principal in return for payments of interest and principal on a preset schedule.





Key Takeaways

Repudiation occurs when one party refuses to honor a contract with another party.Often the party doing the repudiation cannot perform its obligations outlined in the contract due to financial difficulties.A breach of contract may be settled in the courts.The innocent party in a repudiation situation may cancel the contract or let it stand with the hope of the issue being resolved.If you repudiate a contract, it does not automatically terminate it. 


   Understanding Repudiation  

Repudiation occurs if the borrower refuses to honor this contract and stops making the agreed-upon payments. With fixed income instruments, it is always possible that the borrower may default, dispute the validity of the contract, or otherwise refuse to pay. If the borrower repudiates the contract, the corresponding investors may lose their entire investment unless they can recourse against the borrower. In the case of sovereign debt, however, there is often not any method of recourse against the borrowing nation.



In the context of repudiation, it may be that the repudiating party is unwilling or unable to perform its obligations under a contract. Repudiation is seen to be quite a serious matter, and the court requires a ‘clear indication’ that a party is unready or unwilling to perform the contract. When repudiation occurs before the actual breach of a contract, it can be referred to as an anticipatory breach.



The simplest method of repudiation is when a party comes right out and admits that they are unwilling or unable to perform their obligations under the contract. A party’s conduct can also amount to an act of repudiation. Whether a party repudiates or not is an objective test undertaken by the court making it a complex situation in the legal world. Each matter is considered individually. Put simply, determining repudiation requires a detailed review of the actual terms of the contract and the obligations of each party, and then the conduct and statements of the parties.






If you wrongfully form the view that the other party has repudiated the contract and terminate the contract based on this, and you are not entitled to do so, you could be held to have actually repudiated the contract yourself! It’s then critical that you analyze the circumstances carefully.


   Types of Repudiation  

There are essentially three main types of repudiation that a party can make when pulling out of an agreement or contract are transferring the deed to the property that is the subject of the deal (such as a home or building), a verbal repudiation when one party unconditionally refuses to stand by the contract, or when one party takes an action that makes it unable for the other party to perform or follow up on the contract or agreement. All three types are ways to breach a contract that is recognizable in the eyes of the law.


   Responding to Repudiation  

The party on the receiving end of repudiation (i.e., the party not pulling out of the contract) should be careful and ensure they respond appropriately. If one party believes another party has repudiated the contract, the innocent party may:



Continue with the contractAccept the repudiation and elect to terminate the contract



Repudiation itself does not terminate a contract. It simply allows the innocent party to determine how they want to proceed. Such a party should either accept the repudiation or continue the performance of the contract without actually meaning to. In many cases, termination is the only way forward to responding to repudiation since continuing the contract may mean losing money or property.






Repudiation is a complex area of law and each case is taken on its own merits by the courts and involves a deep dive review of the situation and the contract.


   Repudiation vs. Rescind  

Repudiation occurs when one party decided to terminate a contract made with another party by letting them know they cannot (for whatever reason) honor the contract agreement. When a contract is rescinded, it means the contract is terminated by a court of law usually due to an error in the contract itself or because the other party has behaved badly or conducted unlawful business on behalf of the other party. In short, repudiation occurs by a party, a rescission happens in a court of law.


   Example of Repudiation  

Say a buyer finds a house they love and makes an offer on it. The seller contacts their sales agent arranges to meet the buyer and their agent, and all parties agree on the price offered for the home. A contract is drawn up with contingencies for a home inspection. After the inspection occurs, the seller decides they do not want to sell their home after all. The seller lets the buyer's agent know that they want out of the contract. This is an act of repudiation in the real estate industry. The contract is then breached and the seller will most likely have to return any earnest money given to them by the buyer.




What Is Non-Repudiation?
Nonrepudiation is often used in communications and technology fields and means that no one party can deny it sent or received messages, nor deny the authorship or authenticity of a document or signature.




What Is Repudiation of a Credit Default Swap?
The repudiation of a credit default swap is when one party disputes the validity of a contract between a creditor and borrower.




How Do You Accept Repudiation?
If you believe your party on a contract has repudiated the contract, you can terminate the contract as an acceptance of the repudiation, or you may simply continue with the contract.




How Do You Prove Repudiation?
An unconditional reusable is the reputation of a contract. If one party refuses to perform what a contract promises, it is a breach of contract. So, if you are in a contract and the second party does not follow the outline of the contract, you could take them to court for a breach of contract.The courts recognize three forms of repudiation: an unconditional refusal to follow the contract agreement, taking an action that makes it impossible for the contract to stand or the second party to perform, or the transference of property that is the subject of a contract, for example, in the sale of a home promised to another buyer.
What Is a Repurchase Agreement?  

A repurchase agreement (repo) is a form of short-term borrowing for dealers in government securities. In the case of a repo, a dealer sells government securities to investors, usually on an overnight basis, and buys them back the following day at a slightly higher price. That small difference in price is the implicit overnight interest rate. Repos are typically used to raise short-term capital. They are also a common tool of central bank open market operations.



For the party selling the security and agreeing to repurchase it in the future, it is a repo; for the party on the other end of the transaction, buying the security and agreeing to sell in the future, it is a reverse repurchase agreement.





Key Takeaways

A repurchase agreement, or "repo," is a short-term agreement to sell securities in order to buy them back at a slightly higher price.The one selling the repo is effectively borrowing, and the other party is lending since the lender is credited the implicit interest in the difference in prices from initiation to repurchase.Repos and reverse repos are thus used for short-term borrowing and lending, often with a tenor of overnight to 48 hours.The implicit interest rate on these agreements is known as the repo rate, a proxy for the risk-free overnight rate.












Investopedia / Katie Kerpel


   Understanding Repurchase Agreements  

Repurchase agreements are generally considered safe investments because the security in question functions as collateral, which is why most agreements involve U.S. Treasury bonds. Classified as a money-market instrument, a repurchase agreement functions in effect as a short-term, collateral-backed, interest-bearing loan. The buyer acts as a short-term lender, while the seller acts as a short-term borrower. The securities being sold are the collateral. Thus the goals of both parties, secured funding and liquidity, are met.



Repurchase agreements can take place between a variety of parties. The Federal Reserve enters into repurchase agreements to regulate the money supply and bank reserves. Individuals normally use these agreements to finance the purchase of debt securities or other investments. Repurchase agreements are strictly short-term investments, and their maturity period is called the "rate," the "term," or the "tenor."



Despite the similarities to collateralized loans, repos are actual purchases. However, since the buyer only has temporary ownership of the security, these agreements are often treated as loans for tax and accounting purposes. In the case of bankruptcy, in most cases, repo investors can sell their collateral. This is another distinction between repo and collateralized loans; in the case of most collateralized loans, bankrupt investors would be subject to an automatic stay.


   Term vs. Open Repurchase Agreements  

The major difference between a term and an open repo lies in the amount of time between the sale and the repurchase of the securities.



Repos that have a specified maturity date (usually the following day or week) are term repurchase agreements. A dealer sells securities to a counterparty with the agreement that they will buy them back at a higher price on a specific date. In this agreement, the counterparty gets the use of the securities for the term of the transaction and will earn interest stated as the difference between the initial sale price and the buyback price. The interest rate is fixed, and interest will be paid at maturity by the dealer. A term repo is used to invest cash or finance assets when the parties know how long they will need to do so.



An open repurchase agreement (also known as on-demand repo) works the same way as a term repo, except that the dealer and the counterparty agree to the transaction without setting the maturity date. Rather, the trade can be terminated by either party by giving notice to the other party prior to an agreed-upon daily deadline. If an open repo is not terminated, it automatically rolls over each day. Interest is paid monthly, and the interest rate is periodically repriced by mutual agreement.



The interest rate on an open repo is generally close to the federal funds rate. An open repo is used to invest cash or finance assets when the parties do not know how long they will need to do so. But nearly all open agreements conclude within one or two years.


   The Significance of the Tenor  

Repos with longer tenors are usually considered higher risk. During a longer tenor, more factors can affect repurchaser creditworthiness, and interest rate fluctuations are more likely to have an impact on the value of the repurchased asset.



It's similar to the factors that affect bond interest rates. In normal credit market conditions, a longer-duration bond yields higher interest. Long-term bond purchases are bets that interest rates will not rise substantially during the life of the bond. Over a longer duration, it is more likely that a tail event will occur, driving interest rates above forecasted ranges. If there is a period of high inflation, the interest paid on bonds preceding that period will be worth less in real terms.



This same principle applies to repos. The longer the term of the repo, the more likely that the value of the collateral securities will fluctuate prior to the repurchase, and business activities will affect the repurchaser's ability to fulfill the contract. In fact, counterparty credit risk is the primary risk involved in repos.



As with any loan, the creditor bears the risk that the debtor will be unable to repay the principal. Repos function as collateralized debt, which reduces the total risk. And because the repo price exceeds the value of collateral, these agreements remain mutually beneficial to buyers and sellers.


   Types of Repurchase Agreements  

There are three main types of repurchase agreements:



The most common type is a third-party repo (also known as a tri-party repo). In this arrangement, a clearing agent or bank conducts the transactions between the buyer and seller and protects the interests of each. It holds the securities and ensures that the seller receives cash at the onset of the agreement and that the buyer transfers funds for the benefit of the seller and delivers the securities at maturation. The primary clearing banks for tri-party repo in the United States are JPMorgan Chase and Bank of New York Mellon. In addition to taking custody of the securities involved in the transaction, these clearing agents also value the securities and ensure that a specified margin is applied. They settle the transaction on their books and assist dealers in optimizing collateral. What clearing banks do not do, however, is act as matchmakers; these agents do not find dealers for cash investors or vice versa, and they do not act as a broker. Typically, clearing banks begin to settle repos early in the day, although they're not technically settled until the end of the day. This delay in settlement usually means that billions of dollars of intraday credit are extended to dealers each day. These agreements constitute between 80% and 90% of the repurchase agreement market, which held approximately $4.2 trillion as of June 9, 2022.
In a specialized delivery repo, the transaction requires a bond guarantee at the beginning of the agreement and upon maturity. This type of agreement is not very common.
In a held-in-custody repo, the seller receives cash for the sale of the security but holds it in a custodial account for the buyer. This type of agreement is even less common because there is a risk the seller may become insolvent and the borrower may not have access to the collateral.


   Near and Far Legs  

Like many other corners of the financial world, repurchase agreements involve terminology that is not commonly found elsewhere. One of the most common terms in the repo space is the “leg.” There are different types of legs: for instance, the portion of the repurchase agreement transaction in which the security is initially sold is sometimes referred to as the “start leg,” while the repurchase which follows is the “close leg.”



These terms are also sometimes exchanged for “near leg” and “far leg,” respectively. In the near leg of a repo transaction, the security is sold. In the far leg, it is repurchased.


   The Significance of the Repo Rate  

When government central banks repurchase securities from private banks, they do so at a discounted rate, known as the repo rate. Like prime rates, repo rates are set by central banks. The repo rate system allows governments to control the money supply within economies by increasing or decreasing available funds.



A decrease in repo rates encourages banks to sell securities back to the government in return for cash. This increases the money supply available to the general economy. Conversely, by increasing repo rates, central banks can effectively decrease the money supply by discouraging banks from reselling these securities.



In order to determine the true costs and benefits of a repurchase agreement, a buyer or seller interested in participating in the transaction must consider three different calculations:



Cash paid in the initial security saleCash to be paid in the repurchase of the securityImplied interest rate



The cash paid in the initial security sale and the cash paid in the repurchase will be dependent upon the value and type of security involved in the repo. In the case of a bond, for instance, both of these values will need to take into consideration the clean price and the value of the accrued interest for the bond.



A crucial calculation in any repo agreement is the implied rate of interest. If the interest rate is not favorable, a repo agreement may not be the most efficient way of gaining access to short-term cash. A formula that can be used to calculate the real rate of interest is below:



Interest rate = [(future value/present value) – 1] x year/number of days between consecutive legs



Once the real interest rate has been calculated, a comparison of the rate against those pertaining to other types of funding will reveal whether or not the repurchase agreement is a good deal. Generally, as a secured form of lending, repurchase agreements offer better terms than money market cash lending agreements. From the perspective of a reverse repo participant, the agreement can generate extra income on excess cash reserves as well.


   Risks of Repo  

Repurchase agreements are generally seen as credit-risk mitigated instruments. The largest risk in a repo is that the seller may fail to hold up its end of the agreement by not repurchasing the securities which it sold at the maturity date. In these situations, the buyer of the security may then liquidate the security in order to attempt to recover the cash that it paid out initially.



Why this constitutes an inherent risk, though, is that the value of the security may have declined since the initial sale, and it thus may leave the buyer with no option but to either hold the security which it never intended to maintain over the long term or to sell it for a loss. On the other hand, there is a risk for the borrower in this transaction as well; if the value of the security rises above the agreed-upon terms, the creditor may not sell the security back.



There are mechanisms built into the repurchase agreement space to help mitigate this risk. For instance, many repos are over-collateralized. In many cases, if the collateral falls in value, a margin call can take effect to ask the borrower to amend the securities offered. In situations in which it appears likely that the value of the security may rise and the creditor may not sell it back to the borrower, under-collateralization can be utilized to mitigate risk.



Generally, credit risk for repurchase agreements is dependent upon many factors, including the terms of the transaction, the liquidity of the security, the specifics of the counterparties involved, and much more.


   The Financial Crisis and the Repo Market  

Following the 2008 financial crisis, investors focused on a particular type of repo known as repo 105. There was speculation that these repos had played a part in Lehman Brothers’ attempts at hiding its declining financial health leading up to the crisis. In the years immediately following the crisis, the repo market in the U.S. and abroad contracted significantly. However, in more recent years, it has recovered and continued to grow.



The crisis revealed problems with the repo market in general. Since that time, the Fed has stepped in to analyze and mitigate systemic risk. The Fed identified at least three areas of concern:



The tri-party repo market’s reliance on the intraday credit that the clearing banks provideA lack of effective plans to help liquidate the collateral when a dealer defaultsA shortage of viable risk management practices



Starting in late 2008, the Fed and other regulators established new rules to address these and other concerns. Among the effects of these regulations was an increased pressure on banks to maintain their safest assets, such as Treasuries. They are incentivized to not lend them out through repo agreements.



According to Bloomberg, the impact of the regulations has been significant: up through late 2008, the estimated value of global securities loaned in this fashion stood close to $4 trillion. Since that time, though, the figure has hovered closer to $2 trillion. Further, the Fed has increasingly entered into repurchase (or reverse repurchase) agreements as a means of offsetting temporary swings in bank reserves.



Nonetheless, in spite of regulatory changes over the last decade, there remain systemic risks to the repo space. The Fed continues to worry about a default by a major repo dealer that might inspire a fire sale among money funds which could then negatively impact the broader market. The future of the repo space may involve continued regulations to limit the actions of these transactors, or it may even eventually involve a shift toward a central clearinghouse system. For the time being, though, repurchase agreements remain an important means of facilitating short-term borrowing.
What Is Reputational Risk?  

Reputational risk is a threat or danger to the good name or standing of a business or entity. Reputational risk can occur in the following ways:



Directly, as the result of the actions of the company
Indirectly, due to the actions of an employee or employees
Tangentially, through other peripheral parties, such as joint venture partners or suppliers



In addition to having good governance practices and transparency, companies need to be socially responsible and environmentally conscious to avoid or minimize reputational risk.





Key Takeaways

Reputational risk is a hidden threat or danger to the good name or standing of a business or entity and can occur through a variety of ways.The biggest problem with reputational risk is that it can erupt out of nowhere and without warning.Reputational risk can pose a threat to the survival of the biggest and best-run companies and has the potential to wipe out millions or billions of dollars in market capitalization or potential revenues.


   Understanding Reputational Risk  

Reputational risk is a hidden danger that can pose a threat to the survival of the biggest and best-run companies. Often the risk results in outcomes not easily measured; however, it can adversely affect a company's profitability and valuation. It can wipe out millions or billions of dollars in market capitalization or potential revenues and can occasionally result in a change at the uppermost levels of management.



Reputational risk can also arise from the actions of errant employees, such as egregious fraud or massive trading losses disclosed by some of the world's biggest financial institutions. In an increasingly globalized environment, reputational risk can arise even in a peripheral region far away from home base.



In some instances, reputational risk can be mitigated through prompt damage control measures, which is essential in this age of instant communication and social media networks. In other instances, this risk can be more insidious and last for years. For example, gas and oil companies have been increasingly targeted by activists because of the perceived damage to the environment caused by their extraction activities.



It can be a time-intensive process to monitor for online activity such as negative reviews that can jeopardize a company's reputation. Online reputation management (ORM) software can help companies track what consumers say about a brand on review sites, social media, and search engines. Many of these solutions allow you to use one dashboard to look at and respond to reviews.


   Example of Reputational Risk  

Reputational risk exploded into full view in 2016 when the scandal involving the opening of millions of unauthorized accounts by retail bankers (and encouraged or coerced by certain supervisors) was exposed at Wells Fargo.



The CEO, John Stumpf, and others were forced out or fired. Regulators subjected the bank to fines and penalties, and a number of large customers reduced, suspended, or discontinued altogether doing business with the bank. Wells Fargo's reputation was tarnished, and the company has had to rebuild its reputation and its brand.
What Is a Request for Quote (RFQ)?  

A request for quote (RFQ), also known as an invitation for bid (IFB), is a process in which a company solicits select suppliers and contractors to submit price quotes and bids for the chance to fulfill certain tasks or projects. The RFQ process is especially important to businesses that need a consistent supply of a specific number of standard products. Companies may send RFQs alone or before a request for proposal (RFP). 


   How Requests for a Quote Work  

An RFQ is usually the first step in submitting a request for proposal (RFP). These two documents are similar as they provide details of the project or services required, but RFQs generally ask for a more comprehensive price quote. Also, businesses usually design RFQs for generic products in which the quantity needed is known, and RFPs are for unique, niche projects where quantities and specifications are unknown.





Key Takeaways

A request for a quote (RFQ) is a business process in which a business solicits quotes from select suppliers and contractors for a specific task or project.An RFQ can be sent alone or in tandem with a request for proposal (RFP).A business generally sends an RFQ when the quantity for a standard product is known and needs are ongoing.RFQs do not generate unsolicited bids and quotes as businesses target specific vendors and contractors.



In addition to pricing, RFQs may include details such as payment terms, factors that could influence a company's bid selection, submission deadline, and the like. A government agency that wants to buy 500 computers with a specific hard drive size and processing speed, for example, would send an RFQ to several vendors as prospective bidders.



Because the RFQ format is uniform within a given company, when the RFQs come back with price quotes, the soliciting company may compare them easily. Typically, an RFQ process consists of four sections: the preparation phase, the processing phase, the awarding phase, and the closing phase. The company generally will award the contract to the vendor that meets the minimum qualifying criteria and presents the lowest bid.


   Special Considerations  

RFQs are not public announcements. Because the soliciting company sends RFQs only to businesses that it trusts, it does not need to prepare lengthy procurement documentation. Also, unlike a public solicitation, a company can get back only the number of bids that it requested, which also saves time.



Using an RFQ reduces the amount of time needed to procure goods or services. It also offers a degree of security as a company will receive bids only from vendors it prefers. On the other hand, because RFQs reduce the amount of competition, a company may miss receiving the lowest-available price or learning about new high-quality vendors.



When a company receives a quote in response to an RFQ, it is not an offer nor a binding contract. The solicitor will offer the job to its chosen vendor by sending it a purchase order, which, in effect, is a contract specifying the terms and conditions of the work. When a vendor accepts and signs the purchase order, the contract begins.
What Is a Request for Proposal (RFP)?  

A request for proposal (RFP) is a business document that announces a project, describes it, and solicits bids from qualified contractors to complete it. Most organizations prefer to launch their projects using RFPs, and many governments always use them.



When using an RFP, the entity requesting the bids is responsible for evaluating the feasibility of the bids submitted, the financial health of the bidding companies, and each bidder's ability to undertake the project.





Key Takeaways

A request for proposal (RFP) is a project announcement posted publicly by an organization indicating that bids for contractors to complete the project are sought.The RFP defines the project, for the company that issues it as well as the companies that respond to it. The RFP describes the project, its goals, and the organization that is sponsoring it and outlines the bidding process and contract terms.RFPs are used by most government agencies and many private companies and organizations.The alternative is a less formal process that may fail to identify the best vendor and the best plan for accomplishing a project.


   Understanding a Request for Proposal (RFP)  

RFPs are used for complex projects, often requiring a number of sub-contractors. They describe the organization issuing the RFP, the scope of the project being undertaken, and the criteria for evaluating entries. They also outline the bidding process and the contract terms.



The requests include a statement of work describing the tasks to be performed by the winning bidder and the timeline for finishing the work.



RFPs also advise bidders on how to prepare proposals, with specific guidance on how the bids should be formatted and presented. They generally include instructions on what information the bidder must include and the desired format.






The proposal should not be so detailed that it hinders the contractor's creativity, or so vague that the contractor is left stumped.



Most RFPs are issued by government agencies and other organizations in the public sector. They are generally required to open up competition among private companies and remove bias from the process. The agencies want to ensure that they get the lowest and most competitive bid.



However, any private or public organization may put out an RFP to get multiple bids and a variety of perspectives on the project.



For example, a business that wants to change its reporting process from a paper-based system to a computer-based system may put in a request for proposal for hardware, software, and a user training program to establish and integrate the new system into the business. A competitive bidding process may give them greater insight into the alternatives that are available.


   Requirements for a RFP   

Government agencies or other entities may be required to issue requests for proposals to provide full and open competition and to drive down the cost of a solution. Accepting a proposal that is most responsive to specifications may not always mean the lowest-priced bid.



Skillfully creating a request for proposal can ensure the success or failure of the resulting solution. If the specified requirements are too vague, the bidder may not design and implement an adequate solution for the problem. If the requirements are too detailed and restrictive, the bidders’ innovation may be limited.



The RFP process begins with drafting a request for proposal. Bidders review the solicitation and submit suggestions for improvement. After implementing feedback, the final request for proposal is issued. Bidders then submit their proposals.



The customer narrows the selection down to a small group of bidders and enters negotiations on pricing and technical details. The customer may ask the remaining bidders to submit a best and final offer before awarding a contract. The contract is then presented to the company providing the best solution to the issue.


   Benefits of a RFP  

An RFP is, in part, an advertisement. It announces that a project is proceeding, and opens the door to qualified candidates who can get the job done.



In government, the RFP has been adopted as a way to ensure that cronyism is removed as a factor in the rewarding of contracts. It also opens up the process to competition, which can be expected to keep project costs lower.



The alternative to an RFP is a less formal process requiring a project manager to research and identify potential vendors for a project. Depending on how exhaustive the search is, the potential responses can be limited. New vendors and innovative answers may be less likely to be uncovered.


   RFP vs. RFQ vs. RFI  

A request for proposal (RFP), request for quote (RFQ), and request for information (RFI) are three distinct types of documents that businesses and other entities use to reach out to the business community for suppliers or contractors that they may be able to work with.



A request for proposal, as noted above, announces a specific project that is planned and solicits contractors capable of getting the job done.
A request for quote (RFQ) is a solicitation sent to a number of suppliers seeking bids for a contract to supply specific products or services. The request must specify the quality and quantity needed, and the timing desired by the company or organization.
A request for information (RFI) is a solicitation to suppliers for written information on the products and services that they can provide. It might be used to gather information for a database of suppliers for future reference.


   Example of a RFP  

Say, for example, the Federal Railroad Administration issues a request for proposals to finance, design, construct, operate, and maintain a high-speed rail system.



Interested parties submit proposals meeting the requirements outlined in the document. Based on the proposals received by the deadline, the Department of Transportation establishes commissions for further review and development of the proposals.



The DOT chooses the proposal most encompassing its goals and hires the company to carry out the work.


  A Look at a Detailed RFP  

This sample RFP from Chesapeake Bay Trust shows an appropriate level of detail necessary for a successful request. The proposal describes the project, provides an overview of the organization, defines the goals for the services it is pursuing and explains how proposals will be evaluated. It communicates the expected format, budget limitations, and deadline requirements.



The RFP also includes a number of supporting documents and exhibits to further clarify what the trust is looking for. This not only helps define the scope of what services are being pursued but helps interested firms evaluate schedules, logistics, and pricing.



Other samples can be found through TechSoup, a site that provides a library of how-to information and sample RFPs for nonprofits.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


What Does RFP Mean?
A request for proposal (RFP) is an open request for bids to complete a new project proposed by the company or other organization that issues it. It is meant to open up competition and to encourage a variety of alternative proposals that might be considered by the project's planners.




What Are RFP Requirements?
An RFP must describe and define the project in enough detail to attract viable responses.The prospective bidder should be able to understand the nature of the business and the goals it wishes to achieve with the project. The project must be defined in enough detail for the bidder to clearly understand its scope and all of the products and services that must be provided in order to carry it out. The format of the expected proposals must also be detailed. Uniform responses are needed to compare and contrast offers.RFPs follow a fairly rigid format, although that format may vary among the agencies and companies that prepare them. This sample from the RTI International in North Carolina shows the elements in a typical RFP which include an introduction and background, a description of the deliverables, and information about the selection criteria.




What Is the Difference Between RFP and RFQ?
Say a hardware store is expanding its gardening supplies department and needs to find the suppliers necessary to fill its shelves. It might send out a request for quotation (RFQ) to a number of potential suppliers of gardening products. The responses will enable it to establish a relationship with one or more suppliers of the quantity and quality of goods it needs, at a price that is established.When a company or other organization sends out an RFQ it knows exactly what it needs and is seeking the best supplier or suppliers.An RFP is a more open-ended process. The business or organization is seeking qualified contractors to carry out a new project. The project and its goals are defined in some detail but there is room for creativity in the responses. For example, an RFP for a children's park might allow the contractor to propose the precise layout, equipment, and amenities the park might contain.




When Would You Use an RFP?
Businesses large and small tend to have just enough resources to maintain current operations. If they want to take on a new project they have neither the resources nor the expertise on hand to add it to the workload.In such cases, the RFP gives the business an efficient way to recruit the expertise they need to get the project done.




What Happens After the RFP?
The RFP is followed by the Ps. The proposals are submitted for review. Depending on the size and scope of the project, this review may be a multi-level process involving a number of committees. Government agencies, particularly, are not known for moving nimbly.However long it takes, the review process is used to narrow down the proposals to a few finalists who may be asked to submit additional information with a view to a final selection and a start date for the project.


   The Bottom Line   

The RFP defines the project, for the company that issues it as well as the companies that respond to it. A well-written RFP conveys the intention behind the proposal and ensures that the end result will meet expectations.



It also ensures an open process. Ideally, multiple bidders will respond. This gives the organization an opportunity to study a variety of approaches and prices and choose the one that best meets its needs.
What Is a Required Minimum Distribution (RMD)?  

A required minimum distribution (RMD) is the amount of money that must be withdrawn annually from an employer-sponsored retirement plan, traditional IRA, SEP, or SIMPLE individual retirement account (IRA) by owners and qualified retirement plan participants of retirement age.



In 2022, Congress raised the age at which you must begin taking RMDs. In 2023, that is age 73. Account holders must therefore start withdrawing from a retirement account by April 1, following the year that they reach age 73. The account holder must then withdraw the properly-calculated RMD amount each subsequent year.



Another significant change arising from Secure 2.0: Starting in 2024, holders of designated Roth 401(k) accounts will no longer be required to take RMDs. This rule is already true for Roth IRAs.





Key Takeaways

The required minimum distribution is the minimum amount you must take out of your account to avoid a tax penalty.It is determined by dividing the retirement account’s prior year-end fair market value by a life expectancy factor published by the IRS.Account holders can and do take more than the RMD.If you have multiple IRAs, you will usually need to calculate the RMD for each separately but may be able to withdraw the total RMD amount from just one account.The SECURE Act of 2019 changed the distribution rules for some inherited IRAs, effectively eliminating the "stretch IRA," an estate-planning strategy that extended the tax-deferral benefits of IRAs.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Required Minimum Distributions (RMDs)  

A required minimum distribution (RMD) acts as a safeguard against people using a retirement account to avoid paying taxes. RMDs are determined by dividing the retirement account’s prior year-end fair market value (FMV) by the applicable distribution period or life expectancy.



The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has a worksheet to help taxpayers calculate the amount that they must withdraw. Generally, your account custodian or plan administrator will calculate these amounts and report them to the IRS.



Some qualified plans allow certain participants to defer the start of their RMDs until they actually retire, even if they are older than age 73. Qualified plan participants should check with their employers to determine whether they are eligible for this deferral.



In general, this applies to plans at the workplace where they are currently employed, not to IRAs or qualified plans from previous employers.



While an account holder must withdraw the RMD amount, they can also choose to withdraw more than that amount. If the account holder wants to withdraw 100% of their account in the first year, that’s perfectly legal, but the tax bill could be a bit of a shock.






The RMD rules do not apply to Roth IRAs while the owner is still alive. However, the RMD rules do apply to Roth 401(k) accounts.﻿﻿﻿﻿


   How to Calculate RMDs  

The account custodian should be able to tell you the RMD for the account held there. However, you can also calculate what you owe on your own. When calculating your RMD for any given year, it is always wise to confirm on the IRS website that you are using the latest calculation worksheets. Their tables are updated to reflect changes in life expectancy.



Different situations call for different calculation tables. For example, IRA account holders whose spouse is the account’s only beneficiary and more than 10 years younger than the account holder use a different table than other account holders.



For traditional IRA account holders, the RMD calculation involves three steps:



Write down the account’s balance as of Dec. 31 of the previous year.Find the distribution factor listed on the calculation tables that corresponds to your age on your birthday for the current year. For most people, this factor number ranges from 27.4 down to 1.9. As a person gets older, the factor number goes down.Divide the account balance by the factor number to find the RMD.






IRS tables are updated to reflect changes in life expectancy, and different situations call for different calculation tables.


   Example of an RMD  

Each year's RMD must have been withdrawn from the relevant retirement savings account(s) by Dec. 31. Account holders may withdraw their funds periodically throughout the year or wait until the year's end to earn the maximum interest on their funds.
Here's an example. Bob, a retirement account holder, turned 74 on Oct. 1. His IRA was worth $205,000 on Dec. 31 of the prior year. To calculate the annual amount to be withdrawn, that prior Dec. 31 balance is divided by the distribution factor from the relevant IRS table.
That means Bob divides $205,000 by 25.5, which is the distribution period from the latest Uniform Lifetime Table for a 74-year-old. There are other tables for beneficiaries of retirement accounts and account holders with much younger spouses.









RMD


=




$


205


,


000



25.5



=


$


8


,


039.21







\begin{aligned}\text{RMD}=\frac{\$205,000}{25.5}=\$8,039.21\end{aligned}


RMD=25.5$205,000​=$8,039.21​
Divide $205,000 by 25.5, and you get $8,039.22. That's the minimum amount Bob needs to withdraw from his retirement account in the current year to avoid a fine.
There are some other things Bob should keep in mind. Let's suppose Bob has multiple IRAs. This means the RMD for each account must be calculated separately. Depending on the types of accounts involved in this scenario, Bob may have to take RMDs from each account rather than a total amount for all RMDs from one account.






If you have multiple IRAs, you may aggregate the RMD amounts for each of them and then withdraw the total from one or a portion of the total from each.



Fortunately, retirement account holders don't always need to worry about calculating the minimum amount to withdraw each year. Generally, the custodian of the account can calculate your RMD for you. 


   Special Case: Inherited IRAs  

If you inherit an IRA, you will need to use the same RMD that the account owner would have used for the year of the account owner's death.



However, your RMD depends on your identity as the designated beneficiary for years following the account owner's death. For example, RMD rules vary depending on whether you are a surviving spouse, a minor child, or a disabled individual.






As RMD rules can be complex, it's important to review IRS Publication 590-B, Distributions from Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) when making decisions regarding your distributions from an inherited IRA.



Generally, if you inherit an IRA from an account owner who died before Jan. 1, 2020, you would calculate your RMD using the IRS Single Life Table.



However, if the account owner died after Dec. 31, 2019, you'll need to follow the RMD rules established by the SECURE Act. These rules distinguish between eligible, designated, and non-designated beneficiaries. Therefore, the timeframe and calculation of your RMD can vary greatly depending on which of these categories define you as a beneficiary.



For example, some designated beneficiaries may be required to withdraw the entire account by the 10th calendar year following the year of the IRA owner’s post-2019 death. Meanwhile, some non-designated beneficiaries may be required to withdraw the entire account within five years of the IRA owner’s death.



These rules effectively eliminate the stretch IRA, an estate planning strategy that some beneficiaries of inherited IRAs had used in the past to extend the tax-deferred benefits of an IRA.




When Do RMDs Start?
At present, individuals must start taking required minimum distributions from qualified retirement accounts at age 73. Prior to 2023, the RMD age was 72—and before 2020, it was 70½.




Are RMD Distributions Taxed?
Yes, because RMDs are withdrawn from retirement accounts that had contributions made with pre-tax dollars, there exists a deferred tax liability. Income tax must be paid on RMDs when they are taken (at your current tax bracket). The exception would be RMDs taken from a Roth 401(k), which is tax-exempt.




What If I Don't Take RMDs?
If you are over age 73 and choose not to take your RMD, you will be penalized by the IRS. In particular, the amount not withdrawn will be subject to a 25% tax (previously 50%, before the passage of the SECURE 2.0 Act in 2022).




Why Does the IRS Impose RMDs?
Because traditional IRAs and 401(k) plans use pre-tax dollars, the IRS imposes RMDs to prevent individuals from avoiding paying the deferred tax liability owed on those contributions.


   The Bottom Line  

Most people take withdrawals from their retirement accounts before a required minimum distribution (RMD) is required. They live off their retirement funds, and, therefore, are very unlikely to be affected by not following these rules. However, the RMD rule is still important to understand.



This rule is in place to prevent individuals from avoiding the deferred tax liability owed on their retirement contributions. It kicks in at age 73 and is calculated by dividing the retirement account’s prior year-end fair market value by a life expectancy factor published by the IRS. Failure to take required minimum distributions as currently required results in a 25% penalty.



Fortunately, the IRS publishes a worksheet that makes it very easy to calculate how much you must take out each year. However, other factors can catch people out, such as what to do with multiple IRAs or how RMDs work when the retirement account holder passes away and the funds are inherited. Be sure to do your tax-time research to stay abreast of required actions.
What Is Required Rate of Return (RRR)?  

The required rate of return (RRR) is the minimum return an investor will accept for owning a company's stock, as compensation for a given level of risk associated with holding the stock. The RRR is also used in corporate finance to analyze the profitability of potential investment projects.



The RRR is also known as the hurdle rate, which like RRR, denotes the appropriate compensation needed for the level of risk present. Riskier projects usually have higher hurdle rates, or RRRs, than those that are less risky.





Key Takeaways

The required rate of return is the minimum return an investor will accept for owning a company's stock, to compensate them for a given level of risk.To accurately calculate the RRR and improve its utility, the investor must also consider his or her cost of capital, the return available from other competing investments, and inflation. The RRR is a subjective minimum rate of return; this means that a retiree will have a lower risk tolerance and therefore accept a smaller return than an investor who recently graduated college and may have a higher appetite for risk.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah






   2 Methods to Calculate the Required Rate of Return (RRR)  

There are a couple of ways to calculate the required rate of return—either using the dividend discount model (DDM), or the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). The choice of model used to calculate the RRR depends on the situation for which it is being used.


  Calculating RRR Using the Dividend Discount Model  

If an investor is considering buying equity shares in a company that pays dividends, the dividend discount model is ideal. A popular variation of the dividend discount model is also known as the Gordon Growth Model.



The dividend-discount model calculates the RRR for equity of a dividend-paying stock by utilizing the current stock price, the dividend payment per share, and the forecasted dividend growth rate. The formula is as follows:



RRR =  (Expected dividend payment / Share Price) + Forecasted dividend growth rate       



To calculate RRR using the dividend discount model:



Take the expected dividend payment and divide it by the current stock price.Add the result to the forecasted dividend growth rate.







How to Calculate Required Rate of Return


  Calculating RRR Using the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM)  

Another way to calculate RRR is to use the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), which is typically used by investors for stocks that do not pay dividends.



The CAPM model of calculating RRR uses the beta of an asset. Beta is the risk coefficient of the holding. In other words, beta attempts to measure the riskiness of a stock or investment over time. Stocks with betas greater than 1 are considered riskier than the overall market (often represented by a benchmark equity index, such as the S&P 500 in the U.S., or the TSX Composite in Canada), whereas stocks with betas less than 1 are considered less risky than the overall market.



The formula also uses the risk-free rate of return, which is typically the yield on short-term U.S. Treasury securities. The final variable is the market rate of return, which is typically the annual return of the S&P 500 index. The formula for RRR using the CAPM model is as follows:



RRR =  Risk-free rate of return + Beta X (Market rate of return - Risk-free rate of return)       



To calculate RRR using the CAPM:



Subtract the risk-free rate of return from the market rate of return.Multiply the above figure by the beta of the security.Add this result to the risk-free rate to determine the required rate of return.


   What Does the Required Rate of Return Tell You?  

The required rate of return RRR is a key concept in equity valuation and corporate finance. It's a difficult metric to pinpoint due to the different investment goals and risk tolerances of individual investors and companies. Risk-return preferences, inflation expectations, and a company’s capital structure all play a role in determining the company's own required rate. Each one of these and other factors can have major effects on a security's intrinsic value. 



For investors using the CAPM formula, the required rate of return for a stock with a high beta relative to the market should have a higher RRR. The higher RRR relative to other investments with low betas is necessary to compensate investors for the added level of risk associated with investing in the higher beta stock.



In other words, RRR is in part calculated by adding the risk premium to the expected risk-free rate of return to account for the added volatility and subsequent risk.



For capital projects, RRR is useful in determining whether to pursue one project versus another. The RRR is what's needed to go ahead with the project although some projects might not meet the RRR but are in the long-term best interests of the company.



To accurately calculate the RRR and make it more meaningful, the investor must also consider their cost of capital, as well as the return available from other competing investments. In addition, inflation must also be factored into RRR analysis so as to obtain the real (or inflation-adjusted) rate of return.


   Example of RRR Using the Dividend Discount Model (DDM)  

A company is expected to pay an annual dividend of $3 next year, and its stock is currently trading at $100 a share. The company has been steadily raising its dividend each year at a 4% growth rate.



RRR = 7% or (($3 expected dividend / $100 per share) + 4% growth rate)


   Example of RRR Using the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM)  

In the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), RRR can be calculated using the beta of a security, or risk coefficient, as well as the excess return that investing in the stock pays over a risk-free rate (called the equity risk premium).



Assume the following:



The current risk-free rate is 2% on a short-term U.S. Treasury.The long-term average rate of return for the market is 10%.



Let's say Company A has a beta of 1.50, meaning that it is riskier than the overall market (which has a beta of 1).



To invest in Company A, RRR = 14% or (2% + 1.50 X (10% - 2%))



Company B has a beta of 0.50, which implies that it is less risky than the overall market.



To invest in Company B, RRR = 6% or (2% + 0.50 X (10% - 2%))



Thus, an investor evaluating the merits of investing in Company A versus Company B would require a significantly higher rate of return from Company A because of its much higher beta.


   Required Rate of Return vs. Cost of Capital  

Although the required rate of return is used in capital budgeting projects, RRR is not the same level of return that's needed to cover the cost of capital. The cost of capital is the minimum return needed to cover the cost of debt and equity issuance to raise funds for the project. The cost of capital is the lowest return needed to account for the capital structure. The RRR should always be higher than the cost of capital.


   Limitations of the Required Rate of Return  

The RRR calculation does not factor in inflation expectations since rising prices erode investment gains. However, inflation expectations are subjective and can be wrong.



Also, the RRR will vary between investors with different risk tolerance levels. A retiree will have a lower risk tolerance than an investor who recently graduated college. As a result, the RRR is a subjective rate of return.



RRR does not factor in the liquidity of an investment. If an investment can't be sold for a period of time, the security will likely carry a higher risk than one that's more liquid.



Also, comparing stocks in different industries can be difficult since the risk or beta will be different. As with any financial ratio or metric, it's best to utilize multiple ratios in your analysis when considering investment opportunities.




What Is the Difference Between the Internal Rate of Return and the Required Rate of Return?
The internal rate of return looks at the investment's annual growth rate, stating that an investment should be pursued if this rate is greater than the minimum required rate of return.




Should the Required Rate of Return Be High or Low?
The inherent risks of an investment or project are determined through its required rate of return, and thus, a high RRR indicates higher risks while a low RRR implies minimal risks.




What Is Considered a Good Return on an Investment?
A good return on investment is generally considered to be approximately 7% per year or higher, which is also the average annual return of the S&P 500, adjusting for inflation.


   The Bottom Line  

The required rate of return tells investors whether to expand or take on new projects, venture into an investment, or buy the stocks of a company. The RRR determines the inherent risks of an investment, and it can vary between investors with different risk tolerance levels. The RRR can be used as a benchmark of minimum acceptable return when compared to the cost and returns of other similar investment opportunities.



Different models can be used to calculate the required rate of return for an investment opportunity or project, but any calculation does not factor in inflation expectations or the liquidity of an investment.
What Is a Requisition?  

A requisition formally requests a service or item, typically using a purchase requisition form or another standardized document. The requisition process is a standardized way of keeping track of and accounting for all requisitions made within a business.





Key Takeaways

A requisition is a formal request for obtaining a product or service, typically initiated by a business.The requisition process typically requires standardized documents, known as requisition forms, to maintain an audit trail, although most are electronic forms.Requisitions are often used to procure additional supplies, raw materials, or working hours for better inventory control.Procure-to-Pay (P2P) systems fully automate the purchasing process, from requisition to vendor payment.


   How a Requisition Works  

A requisition initiates the request for a specific action and also records that action for subsequent reporting needs. For example, employees within a company would use a purchase requisition if they needed additional supplies.



At one time, requisitions were done via paper forms, but most companies now use digital requisition processes that enable easier process tracking, including accounting for relevant inventory. These types of requisitions often automatically update the inventory for better control.



A formalized requisition process improves efficiency and accountability across all points of contact. Compared to an approach where employees take supplies anytime, the purchase requisition provides a more controlled and documented method for managing internal supply inventories and future demand.






In the medical profession, doctors complete a requisition form when requesting lab tests. These digital forms include the patient ID and other medical information, assuring patients receive correct lab tests.


   Standardized Requisition Forms  

Requisition forms typically include line items such as the:



Name of the person or company making the requestDate of the request, items requested, the delivery dateDelivery location and contact informationDepartment responsible for fulfilling the request













The forms generally also include the signature of the individual fulfilling the request and the date completed. In large corporations with multiple locations and centralized purchasing, these requisition processes are critical for maintaining employee productivity.



Another example of a requisition process occurs within the world of finance when shareholders choose to requisition a company’s board of directors to take a vote on proposed resolutions. At its essence, a requisition process is a formalized documented procedure key to improving efficiencies within a business setting.


   Purchase Requisition vs. Purchase Order  

A purchase requisition is an internal form used for procuring goods and services and has no legal or binding contractual obligations. A company's internal purchase requisition form is for employees who wish to request supplies for their departments or themselves. Frequently, these forms require managerial signoff.



A purchase order is a contractual agreement companies use when ordering goods and services from an external vendor. For example, a company ordering supplies from an office store will issue a purchase order detailing the items purchased, their prices, payment terms, delivery dates, and any special discounts for early payment.


   Example of a Requisition  

To better understand the requisition process, consider the following example. A health insurance company's Learning and Development team needs new supplies for its training program. The team lead must request these supplies through the company's automated requisition system.



The lead searches a catalog and selects an assortment of products for the team. After completing the requisition form, it is submitted to management for approval. The manager reviews and approves it, then sends the request to the purchasing department.



Like the manager, the purchasing department reviews and approves the requisition. If errors are present or if not enough information is included, the request may be returned to the manager or the requestor for updates. In this example, no errors or omissions were found, so a purchase order was created. The purchase order lists the specifics of the order, such as the product type and the quantity needed. Once final, the purchase order is sent to the supplier for fulfillment.



The supplier receives the order, and, if accepted, contracts with the purchaser for the products requested. The purchase order serves as the contract. The supplier delivers the products as requested and receives payment.


   Special Considerations  

Purchase-to-pay systems (P2P) streamline and automate companies' requisition and procurement processes. Three main processes are cared for by these systems: requisitioning, purchasing, and payment. By automating these processes, purchase-to-pay systems increase efficiency and accuracy in accounting.






Purchase-to-pay systems can reduce costs by approximately 80%.



The automated process begins with requisitioning. Users are presented with a catalog of products or services. Items are then selected and saved in a shopping cart. The requisition is routed to management for approval, and once received, the system moves to the purchasing process and then finalized once payment is made to the vendor.




What Is Requisitioned Property?
Requisitioned property is property taken by the government, such as with eminent domain. In the U.S., the Fifth Amendment requires the government to compensate the owner of seized property for the property's full market value.




What Is a Job Requisition?
A job requisition is a formal request to hire someone for a job. The requisition contains the job details, including desired candidate qualifications, role requirements, and job details. Some companies also post the target salary or salary range in the requisition.




What Is Requisition Reconciliation in Accounting?
Requisition reconciliation in accounting is the process by which two sets of records are compared for accuracy, completeness, and consistency. The comparison will help identify and explain discrepancies. Under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the required double-entry accounting method helps to pinpoint when and where errors exist.


   The Bottom Line  

A requisition is a formal request for a product or service and can be submitted manually or electronically. A structured requisition process improves a business's efficiency and accountability. Procure-to-pay systems fully automate the procurement process, from requisition to payment, further increasing accuracy and efficiency.
What Is a Research Analyst?  

A research analyst is a professional who prepares investigative reports on securities or assets for in-house or client use. Other names for this function include securities analyst, investment analyst, equity analyst, rating analyst, or simply "analyst."



The work conducted by the research analyst is in an effort to inquire, examine, find or revise facts, principles, and theories for internal use by a financial institution or an external financial client. The report an analyst prepares entails the examination of public records of securities of companies or industries, and often concludes with a "buy," "sell" or "hold" recommendation.



If the research analyst is involved with an investment bank or a securities firm controlled by a member organization of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), they may be required to register with a self-regulatory organization (SRO) and/or take certain exams.﻿﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A research analyst is a professional who prepares investigative reports on securities or assets for in-house or client use.The report an analyst prepares entails the examination of public records of securities of companies or industries, and often concludes with a "buy," "sell," or "hold" recommendation.The main differences between buy-side and sell-side analysts are the type of firm that employs them and the people to whom they make recommendations.


   The Basics of Being a Research Analyst  

Research analysts are usually divided into two groups: "buy-side" and "sell-side" analysts. A buy-side (brokerage) research analyst is typically employed by an asset management company and recommends securities for investment to the money managers of the fund that employs them. The research of a sell-side (investment firm) analyst tends to be sold to the buy-side. Sell-side research is also given to clients for free for consideration, such as in an attempt to win business. Such research can be used to promote companies.



A buy-side analyst usually works for institutional investors such as hedge funds, pension funds, or mutual funds. Buy-side research analysts are often considered more professional, academic, and reputable compared to the sell-side. Sell-side research jobs are often likened to marketing and sometimes pay higher salaries.﻿﻿






Buy-side analysts will determine how promising an investment seems and how well it coincides with the fund's investment strategy. Sell-side analysts are those who issue recommendations of "strong buy," "outperform," "neutral," or "sell."



Research analysts can work at a variety of companies, such as at asset management companies, investment banks, insurance companies, hedge funds, pension funds, brokerages or any business that needs to crunch data to spot trends or decide on a valuation, make an investment decision, or forecast the outlook of a company or asset. According to Glassdoor, the average base pay salary for a research analyst is $56,893, ranging anywhere between $40,000 and $84,000.﻿﻿


   Research Analyst Qualifications  

Companies that employ research analysts sometimes require a master's degree in finance or a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation on top of several regulatory hurdles. Research analysts might be required to take the Series 86/87 exams if they are involved with a member organization.﻿﻿



Other securities licenses are often required to include the Series 7 general securities representative license and the Series 63 uniform securities agent license.﻿﻿ FINRA licenses are typically associated with the selling of specific securities as a firm’s registered representative. Investment analysts may also seek to obtain the chartered financial analyst (CFA) certification.﻿﻿


   Financial Analyst vs. Research Analyst  

Financial firms in the United States do not really present a unified definition of either job. Some financial analysts are really just researchers who collect and organize market data, while others put together specific proposals for securities investments with large institutional clients. Similarly, some research analysts are glorified marketing specialists, while others apply socioeconomic or political insights and are probably better classified as management consultants.



It's possible to narrow the differences between research analysts and financial analysts. Generally speaking, financial analysts focus on analyzing investments and market performance. They rely on a fundamental understanding of business valuation and economic principles to create reports and make recommendations; they are the behind-the-scenes experts. Research analysts occupy a less prescriptive role than financial analysts. Instead of looking through the lens of broad economic principles, they focus more on mathematical models to produce objective answers about historical data.



Financial analysts collect and analyze data but always within the context of a prior deductive understanding of how markets should function. Their thinking is systemic and, particularly at more senior levels, subjective. Research analysts tend to be operations-focused. Give a research analyst a series of inputs, and they can calculate the most efficient way to maximize output. If the research analyst works in the securities business, it's likely that recommendations may be made based on some predetermined criteria.
What Is Research and Development (R&D)?  

The term research and development (R&D) is used to describe a series of activities that companies undertake to innovate and introduce new products and services. R&D is often the first stage in the development process. Companies require knowledge, talent, and investment in order to further their R&D needs and goals. The purpose of research and development is generally to take new products and services to market and add to the company's bottom line.





Key Takeaways

Research and development represents the activities companies undertake to innovate and introduce new products and services or to improve their existing offerings.R&D allows a company to stay ahead of its competition by catering to new wants or needs in the market.Companies in different sectors and industries conduct R&D—pharmaceuticals, semiconductors, and technology companies generally spend the most.R&D is often a broad approach to exploratory advancement, while applied research is more geared towards researching a more narrow scope.The accounting for treatment for R&D costs can materially impact a company's income statement and balance sheet.


   Understanding Research and Development (R&D)  

The concept of research and development is widely linked to innovation both in the corporate and government sectors. R&D allows a company to stay ahead of its competition. Without an R&D program, a company may not survive on its own and may have to rely on other ways to innovate such as engaging in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) or partnerships. Through R&D, companies can design new products and improve their existing offerings.



R&D is distinct from most operational activities performed by a corporation. The research and/or development is typically not performed with the expectation of immediate profit. Instead, it is expected to contribute to the long-term profitability of a company. R&D may often allow companies to secure intellectual property, including patents, copyrights, and trademarks as discoveries are made and products created.



Companies that set up and employ departments dedicated entirely to R&D commit substantial capital to the effort. They must estimate the risk-adjusted return on their R&D expenditures, which inevitably involves risk of capital. That's because there is no immediate payoff, and the return on investment (ROI) is uncertain. As more money is invested in R&D, the level of capital risk increases. Other companies may choose to outsource their R&D for a variety of reasons including size and cost.



Companies across all sectors and industries undergo R&D activities. Corporations experience growth through these improvements and the development of new goods and services. Pharmaceuticals, semiconductors, and software/technology companies tend to spend the most on R&D. In Europe, R&D is known as research and technical or technological development.






Many small and mid-sized businesses may choose to outsource their R&D efforts because they don't have the right staff in-house to meet their needs.


   Types of R&D  

There are several different types of R&D that exist in the corporate world and within government. The type used depends entirely on the entity undertaking it and the results can differ.


  Basic Research  

There are business incubators and accelerators, where corporations invest in startups and provide funding assistance and guidance to entrepreneurs in the hope that innovations will result that they can use to their benefit.



M&As and partnerships are also forms of R&D as companies join forces to take advantage of other companies' institutional knowledge and talent.


  Applied Research  

One R&D model is a department staffed primarily by engineers who develop new products—a task that typically involves extensive research. There is no specific goal or application in mind with this model. Instead, the research is done for the sake of research.


  Development Research  

This model involves a department composed of industrial scientists or researchers, all of who are tasked with applied research in technical, scientific, or industrial fields. This model facilitates the development of future products or the improvement of current products and/or operating procedures.






$42.7 billion of research and development costs later, Amazon was granted 2,244 new patents in 2020. Their patents included advancements in artificial intelligence, machine learning, and cloud computing.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of R&D  
  Advantages  

There are several key benefits to research and development. It facilitates innovation, allowing companies to improve existing products and services or by letting them develop new ones to bring to the market.



Because R&D also is a key component of innovation, it requires a greater degree of skill from employees who take part. This allows companies to expand their talent pool, which often comes with special skill sets.



The advantages go beyond corporations. Consumers stand to benefit from R&D because it gives them better, high-quality products and services as well as a wider range of options. Corporations can, therefore, rely on consumers to remain loyal to their brands. It also helps drive productivity and economic growth.


  Disadvantages  

One of the major drawbacks to R&D is the cost. First, there is the financial expense as it requires a significant investment of cash upfront. This can include setting up a separate R&D department, hiring talent, and product and service testing, among others.



Innovation doesn't happen overnight so there is also a time factor to consider. This means that it takes a lot of time to bring products and services to market from conception to production to delivery.



Because it does take time to go from concept to product, companies stand the risk of being at the mercy of changing market trends. So what they thought may be a great seller at one time may reach the market too late and not fly off the shelves once it's ready.





Pros

Facilitates innovation
Improved or new products and services
Expands knowledge and talent pool
Increased consumer choice and brand loyalty
Economic driver



Cons

Financial investment
Takes time
Shifting market trends





   R&D Accounting  

R&D may be beneficial to a company's bottom line, but it is considered an expense. After all, companies spend substantial amounts on research and trying to develop new products and services. As such, these expenses are often reported for accounting purposes on the income statement and do not carry long-term value.



There are certain situations where R&D costs are capitalized and reported on the balance sheet. Some examples include but are not limited to:



Materials, fixed assets, or other assets have alternative future uses with an estimable value and useful life.
Software that can be converted or applied elsewhere in the company to have a useful life beyond a specific single R&D project.
Indirect costs or overhead expenses allocated between projects.
R&D purchased from a third party that is accompanied by intangible value. That intangible asset may be recorded as a separate balance sheet asset.


   R&D Considerations  

Before taking on the task of research and development, it's important for companies and governments to consider some of the key factors associated with it. Some of the most notable considerations are:



Objectives and Outcome: One of the most important factors to consider is the intended goals of the R&D project. Is it to innovate and fill a need for certain products that aren't being sold? Or is it to make improvements on existing ones? Whatever the reason, it's always important to note that there should be some flexibility as things can change over time.Timing: R&D requires a lot of time. This involves reviewing the market to see where there may be a lack of certain products and services or finding ways to improve on those that are already on the shelves.Cost: R&D costs a great deal of money, especially when it comes to the upfront costs. And there may be higher costs associated with the conception and production of new products rather than updating existing ones.Risks: As with any venture, R&D does come with risks. R&D doesn't come with any guarantees, no matter the time and money that goes into it. This means that companies and governments may sacrifice their ROI if the end product isn't successful.


   Research and Development vs. Applied Research  

Basic research is aimed at a fuller, more complete understanding of the fundamental aspects of a concept or phenomenon. This understanding is generally the first step in R&D. These activities provide a basis of information without directed applications toward products, policies, or operational processes.



Applied research entails the activities used to gain knowledge with a specific goal in mind. The activities may be to determine and develop new products, policies, or operational processes. While basic research is time-consuming, applied research is painstaking and more costly because of its detailed and complex nature.


   Who Spends the Most on R&D?  

Companies spend billions of dollars on R&D to produce the newest, most sought-after products. According to public company filings, these companies incurred the highest research and development spending in 2020:



Amazon: $42.7 billionAlphabet.: $27.6 billionHuawei: $22.0 billionMicrosoft: $19.3 billionApple: $18.8 billionSamsung: $18.8 billionFacebook: $18.5 billion




What Types of Activities Can Be Found in Research and Development?
Research and development activities focus on the innovation of new products or services in a company. Among the primary purposes of R&D activities is for a company to remain competitive as it produces products that advance and elevate its current product line. Since R&D typically operates on a longer-term horizon, its activities are not anticipated to generate immediate returns. However, in time, R&D projects may lead to patents, trademarks, or breakthrough discoveries with lasting benefits to the company. 




What Is an Example of Research and Development?
Alphabet allocated over $16 billion annually to R&D in 2018. Under its R&D arm X, the moonshot factory, it has developed Waymo self-driving cars. Meanwhile, Amazon has spent even more on R&D projects, with key developments in cloud computing and its cashier-less store Amazon Go. At the same time, R&D can take the approach of a merger & acquisition, where a company will leverage the talent and intel of another company to create a competitive edge. The same can be said with company investment in accelerators and incubators, whose developments it could later leverage.




Why Is Research and Development Important?
Given the rapid rate of technological advancement, R&D is important for companies to stay competitive. Specifically, R&D allows companies to create products that are difficult for their competitors to replicate. Meanwhile, R&D efforts can lead to improved productivity that helps increase margins, further creating an edge in outpacing competitors. From a broader perspective, R&D can allow a company to stay ahead of the curve, anticipating customer demands or trends.


   The Bottom Line  

There are many things companies can do in order to advance in their industries and the overall market. Research and development is just one way they can set themselves apart from their competition. It opens up the potential for innovation and increasing sales. But it does come with some drawbacks—the most obvious being the financial cost and the time it takes to innovate.
What Are Research and Development (R&D) Expenses?  

Research and development (R&D) expenses are associated directly with the research and development of a company's goods or services and any intellectual property generated in the process. A company generally incurs R&D expenses in the process of finding and creating new products or services.



As a common type of operating expense, a company may deduct R&D expenses on its tax return.





Key Takeaways

Research and development (R&D) expenses are direct expenditures relating to a company's efforts to develop, design, and enhance its products, services, technologies, or processes.The industrial, technological, health care, and pharmaceutical sectors typically incur the highest degree of R&D expenses.The IRS offers tax breaks for R&D expenses, and these may also be deducted on corporate tax returns.


   Understanding Research and Development Expenses  

Research and development is a systematic activity that combines basic and applied research to discover solutions to new or existing problems or to create or update goods and services. When a company conducts its own R&D, it often results in the ownership of intellectual property in the form of patents or copyrights that result from discoveries or inventions.



An essential component of a company's research and development arm is its direct R&D expenses, which can range on a spectrum from relatively minor costs to several billions of dollars for large research-focused corporations. Companies in the industrial, technological, health care, and pharmaceutical sectors usually have the highest levels of R&D expenses. Some companies—for example, those in technology—reinvest a significant portion of their profits back into research and development as an investment in their continued growth.



Large companies have also been able to conduct R&D through acquisition by investing in or subsidizing some of those smaller companies' costs or acquiring them outright.


   Real World Example of R&D Expenses  

Tech companies rely heavily on their research and development capabilities, so they have relatively outsized R&D expenses. In a constantly changing environment, it's important for such a company to remain on the bleeding edge of innovation. For example, Meta (META), formerly Facebook, invests heavily in the research and development of products such as virtual reality and predictive AI chatbots. These endeavors allow Meta to diversify its business and find new growth opportunities as technology continues to evolve.



Meta's 2014 acquisition of Oculus Rift is an example of R&D expenses through acquisition. Meta already had the internal resources necessary to build out a virtual reality division, but by acquiring an existing virtual reality company, it was able to expedite the time it took them to develop this capability.


   Reasons to Conduct R&D  

Businesses conduct R&D for many reasons, the first and foremost being new product research and development. Before any new product is released into the marketplace, it goes through significant research and development phases, which include a product's market opportunity, cost, and production timeline. After adequate research, a new product enters the development phase, where a company creates the product or service using the concept laid out during the research phase.



Some companies use R&D to update existing products or conduct quality checks in which a business evaluates a product to ensure that it is still adequate and discusses any improvements. If the improvements are cost-effective, they will be implemented during the development phase.
What Is a Research Associate?  

A research associate typically works within a research department of an investment bank or asset management firm to provide helpful data to the decision-makers who buy and sell securities for the firm. A research associate can plan, organize, and conduct research about industries, sectors, individual companies, markets, various investment vehicles, and economics.





Key Takeaways

A research associate works in a research department of an investment bank, asset management firm, or other financial services company to gather, organize, and synthesize data to support decision-makers in the firm's sales and trading function.An individual who works as a research associate can become an expert in specific areas or be utilized as a generalist to cover a broad range of products, markets, and industries.A research associate can climb vertically toward becoming a senior analyst or research director, or they may move laterally inside or outside an organization.


   Understanding the Role of Investment Research  

Most large investment banks have in-house research departments that support their sales and trading efforts. A sell-side firm may have several research groups according to the company's different investment products—for example, stocks, corporate bonds, derivatives, and so on.



A firm's research professionals provide critical decision-making information to its salesmen and traders that substantiate the financial products they sell to institutional investors. A firm's research often provides specific buy, sell, and hold recommendations along with their rationale.



A key product of a research department is its written research; whether that takes the form of scrawled notes to the trading desk or a formal published research report, along with appropriate financial models, that goes out to the buy-side. Usually, it's a combination of both and each format plays a specific role in providing time-sensitive analysis that supports decision-making.


   What Does A Research Associate Do?  

A research associate's responsibilities can vary depending on the size and needs of the organization. The end purpose of the job, however, is to provide helpful information to the decision-makers. A research associate could gather data from primary and secondary sources; organize and analyze this material, and draft outlines for their superiors.



If an equity research associate has had at least one year of experience at the firm, they might begin to conduct fundamental company analysis with the goal of generating actionable information from the data. A research associate can become an expert in specific areas or be utilized as a generalist to cover a broad range of products, markets, and industries.






A firm's research department provides critical time-sensitive analyses of companies, industries, markets, asset classes, and economics to decision-makers and traders on both the buy- and sell-sides.


   Job Skills and Requirements  

Because the end product of a research department is written research, it's critical that a research associate be able to write well. The role usually requires a bachelor's or master's degree in economics, business, or finance, as well as facility with numbers and the ability to distill large amounts of data and communicate it effectively to others.



Other skills would come into play as the individual advances in the role of research associate. For example, if they end up attending client meetings, they might need good listening, notetaking, and intersocial abilities. If they travel for pre-initial public offering (IPO) roadshows, they would need good presentation and sales skills, and so on.


   Career Path of a Research Associate  

Depending on an organization's hierarchical structure, a research associate can be at the same level as a research assistant or above it, and at the same level or below a research analyst. The research associate generally spends at least two years at that level before moving up the ladder, whether to a senior research associate role or research analyst position (most organizations place the analyst position above the associate position).



By accumulating more experience, a research associate can climb vertically toward becoming a senior analyst or research director, or they may move laterally inside or outside an organization. Inside the company, for example, a seasoned research professional who does not aspire to become head of research could move to a product group in a marketing role, or to a different part of the firm altogether.



It's also not unheard of for a research associate to decide that they prefer trading instead of research. In the case of a research associate on the sell-side, a career jump to the buy-side as an analyst also could offer potential advancement.
What Is a Research Report?  

A research report is a document prepared by an analyst or strategist who is a part of the investment research team in a stock brokerage or investment bank. A research report may focus on a specific stock or industry sector, a currency, commodity or fixed-income instrument, or on a geographic region or country. Research reports generally, but not always, have actionable recommendations such as investment ideas that investors can act upon.


   Understanding Research Reports  

Research reports are produced by a variety of sources, ranging from market research firms to in-house departments at large organizations. When applied to the investment industry, the term usually refers to sell-side research, or investment research produced by brokerage houses.



Such research is disseminated to the institutional and retail clients of the brokerage that produces it. Research produced by the buy-side, which includes pension funds, mutual funds, and portfolio managers, is usually for internal use only and is not distributed to external parties.


   Financial Analyst Research Reports  

Financial analysts may produce research reports for the purpose of supporting a particular recommendation, such as whether to buy or sell a particular security or whether a client should consider a particular financial product. For example, an analyst may create a report in regards to a new offering being proposed by a company. The report could include relevant metrics regarding the company itself, such as the number of years they have been in operation as well as the names of key stakeholders, along with statistics regarding the current state of the market in which the company participates. Information regarding overall profitability and the intended use of the funds can also be included.


   Research Report Impact  

Enthusiasts of the Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH) might insist that the value of professional analysts' research reports is suspect and that investors likely place too much confidence in the conclusions such analysts make. While a definitive conclusion about this topic is difficult to make because comparisons are not exact, some research papers do exist which claim empirical evidence supporting the value of such reports.



One such paper studied the market for India-based investments and analysts who cover them. The paper was published in the March 2014 edition of the International Research Journal of Business and Management. Its authors concluded that analyst recommendations do have an impact and are beneficial to investors at least in short-term decisions.


   Conflicts of Interest  

While some analysts are functionally unaffiliated, others may be directly or indirectly affiliated with the companies for which they produce reports. Unaffiliated analysts traditionally perform independent research to determine an appropriate recommendation and may have a limited concern regarding the outcome.



Affiliated analysts may feel best served by ensuring any research reports portray clients in a favorable light. Additionally, if an analyst is also an investor in the company on which the report is based, he may have a personal incentive to avoid topics that may result in a lowered valuation of the securities in which he has invested.
What Is the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)?  

The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is the central bank of India, which began operations on Apr. 1, 1935, under the Reserve Bank of India Act. The Reserve Bank of India uses monetary policy to create financial stability in India, and it is charged with regulating the country’s currency and credit systems.





Key Takeaways

The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is the central bank of India,The RBI was originally set up as a private entity in 1935, but it was nationalized in 1949.The main purpose of the RBI is to conduct consolidated supervision of the financial sector in India, which is made up of commercial banks, financial institutions, and non-banking finance firms.


   Understanding the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)  

Located in Mumbai, the RBI serves the financial market in many ways. The bank sets the overnight interbank lending rate. The Mumbai Interbank Offer Rate (MIBOR) serves as a benchmark for interest rate–related financial instruments in India.



The main purpose of the RBI is to conduct consolidated supervision of the financial sector in India, which is made up of commercial banks, financial institutions, and non-banking finance firms. Initiatives adopted by the RBI include restructuring bank inspections, introducing off-site surveillance of banks and financial institutions, and strengthening the role of auditors



First and foremost, the RBI formulates, implements, and monitors India’s monetary policy. The bank’s management objective is to maintain price stability and ensure that credit is flowing to productive economic sectors. The RBI also manages all foreign exchange under the Foreign Exchange Management Act of 1999. This act allows the RBI to facilitate external trade and payments to promote the development and health of the foreign exchange market in India.



The RBI acts as a regulator and supervisor of the overall financial system. This injects public confidence into the national financial system, protects interest rates, and provides positive banking alternatives to the public. Finally, the RBI acts as the issuer of national currency. For India, this means that currency is either issued or destroyed depending on its fit for current circulation. This provides the Indian public with a supply of currency in the form of dependable notes and coins, a lingering issue in India.


   Special Considerations  

The RBI was originally set up as a private entity, but it was nationalized in 1949. The reserve bank is governed by a central board of directors appointed by the national government. The government has always appointed the RBI’s directors, and this has been the case since the bank became fully owned by the government of India as outlined by the Reserve Bank of India Act. Directors are appointed for a period of four years.



According to its website, the current focus of the RBI is to continue its increased supervision of financial institutions, while dealing with legal issues related to bank fraud and consolidated accounting and attempting to create a supervisory rating model for its banks.
What Is a Reserve Currency?  

A reserve currency is a large quantity of currency maintained by central banks and other major financial institutions to prepare for investments, transactions, and international debt obligations, or to influence their domestic exchange rate. A large percentage of commodities, such as gold and oil, are priced in the reserve currency, causing other countries to hold this currency to pay for these goods.





Key Takeaways

A reserve currency is a large amount of currency held by central banks and major financial institutions to use for international transactions.A reserve currency reduces exchange rate risk since there's no need for a country to exchange its currency for the reserve currency to do trade.Reserve currency helps facilitate global transactions, including investments and international debt obligations.A large percentage of commodities are priced in the reserve currency, causing countries to hold this currency to pay for these goods.


   Understanding Reserve Currency  

Holding a reserve currency minimizes exchange rate risk, as the purchasing nation will not have to exchange its currency for the current reserve currency to make the purchase. Since 1944, the U.S. dollar has been the primary reserve currency used by other countries. As a result, foreign nations closely monitor the monetary policy of the United States to ensure that the value of their reserves is not adversely affected by inflation or rising prices.


   How the U.S. Dollar Became the World’s Reserve Currency  

The post-war emergence of the U.S. as the dominant economic power had enormous implications for the global economy. At one time, U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP), which is a measure of the total output of a country, represented 50% of the world’s economic output.



As a result, it made sense that the U.S dollar would become the global currency reserve. In 1944, following the Bretton Woods Agreement, delegates from 44 nations formally agreed to adopt the U.S. dollar as an official reserve currency. Since then, other countries pegged their exchange rates to the dollar, which was convertible to gold at the time. Because the gold-backed dollar was relatively stable, it enabled other countries to stabilize their currencies.



In the beginning, the world benefited from a strong and stable dollar, and the United States prospered from the favorable exchange rate on its currency. The foreign governments did not fully realize that although gold reserves backed their currency reserves, the United States could continue to print dollars that were backed by its debt held as U.S. Treasuries. As the United States printed more money to finance its spending, the gold backing behind the dollars diminished. The increase monetary supply of dollars went beyond the backing of gold reserves, which reduced the value of the currency reserves held by foreign countries.


   The Gold-to-Dollar Decoupling  

As the United States continued to flood the markets with paper dollars to finance its escalating war in Vietnam and the Great Society programs, the world grew cautious and began to convert dollar reserves into gold. The run on gold was so extensive that President Nixon was compelled to step in and decouple the dollar from the gold standard, which gave way to the floating exchange rates that are in use today. Soon after, the value of gold tripled, and the dollar began its decades-long decline.


   Continued Faith in the U.S. Dollar  

The U.S. dollar remains the world’s currency reserve, due primarily to the fact that countries accumulated so much of it, and that it was still the most stable and liquid form of exchange. Backed by the safest of all paper assets, U.S. Treasuries, the dollar is still the most redeemable currency for facilitating world commerce. It for this reason that it's highly unlikely the U.S. dollar will experience a collapse any time soon.



The euro, introduced in 1999, is the second most commonly held reserve currency in the world. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which is charged with promoting global growth and trade, central banks hold more than $6.7 trillion in dollar reserves versus 2.2 trillion in euros as of Q4 2019.﻿﻿
What Is a Reserve Fund?  

A reserve fund is a savings account or other highly liquid asset set aside by an individual or business to meet any future costs or financial obligations, especially those arising unexpectedly. If the fund is set up to meet the costs of scheduled upgrades, less liquid assets may be used. For example, a homeowner's association often manages a reserve fund to help maintain the community and its amenities using the dues paid by homeowners.





Key Takeaways

A reserve fund is savings or a liquid asset set aside to cover unexpected costs or future financial obligations.Many governments, financial institutions, and individuals regularly set aside funds into accounts that earn interest.Pensions are examples of reserve funds as money is invested on behalf of members and paid in the future.Homeowner's associations (HOA) and condominiums use reserve funds to address maintenance issues and large-scale projects.


   How a Reserve Fund Works  

A reserve fund sets aside money for covering scheduled, routine and unscheduled expenses that would otherwise be drawn from a general fund. Governments, financial institutions, and private households may establish reserve funds.



Although the fund size may vary, the typical goal is to deposit funds regularly in an account that accrues interest, thereby increasing the fund's value while not in use. Because expenses may arise unexpectedly, a reserve fund is typically kept in a highly liquid account, such as a savings account.



In pension funds, for example, money is invested on behalf of a fund's members and later paid out during retirement. When working employees sign up for a pension fund, they put money into a reserve fund that is used to ensure money is available for other employees who signed up to receive a payout when they retire.


   Reserve Funds for Condominiums or HOAs  

Homeowners' associations and condominiums often use reserve funds in the event of large-scale maintenance or renovation projects, as well as for any costly community emergencies. Reserve funds are typically managed in tandem with operating funds, which more commonly fund the community's day-to-day expenses or recurring costs, such as housekeeping, taxes, insurance, and utilities.



Condo communities and HOAs typically establish and maintain the funds using the dues, or HOA fees, paid by owners to cover maintenance, repairs, and other expenses incurred by the community. The community association's board usually oversees the funds and decides how to allocate its use. For example, rather than tapping into the operating fund, the board may use part of the reserve fund money to cover biannual insurance payments.



If a condominium incurs a large expense that the reserve fund cannot cover, each member or owner may pay an assessment to cover the cost. For example, when a condominium's parking garage needs emergency repairs, unit owners may be asked for additional funds beyond their regular association dues.


   Reserve Studies and Managing Reserve Funds  

The best way to avoid a special assessment is to ensure the building’s reserve fund is well-equipped with enough money to handle expenses, including those that are unexpected. Often, HOA boards determine how much money should go into their reserve fund supply via a reserve study, where independent consultants assess the state of a property and make recommendations for the reserve fund based on physical and financial analysis.



The experts consider the age of the property, its current state, and the amenities it provides, as well as project maintenance costs that may be needed in the future. Because condominiums or HOAs do not always fully fund their reserves, the final figure determined by a reserve study is only a recommendation.



The implications of a poorly managed reserve fund can translate to higher dues or assessments for members of a community association; so, potential buyers should investigate the efficacy of a particular HOA, or condominium community, before purchasing a home under its jurisdiction.
What Is a Reserve Price?  

Common to auctions, a reserve price or a reservation price is the minimum amount that a seller will accept as the winning bid. Alternatively, it is less commonly known as the highest price a buyer is willing to pay for a good or service. The reserve price prevents a bidder who offers a price lower than what the owner will accept from winning the auction.



The point at which the buyer and seller are no longer willing to negotiate is the walk-away point. The auction's starting price tends to start lower than the reserve price to encourage bidding. A reserve price is not to be confused with an opening bid, which is the suggested starting bid for an auction.





Key Takeaways

A reserve price is a minimum price that a seller would be willing to accept from a buyer.In an auction, the seller is not typically required to disclose the reserve price to potential buyers.If the reserve price is not met, the seller is not required to sell the item, even to the highest bidder.As a result, some buyers dislike reserve prices as they encourage bidding at levels that may not win.


   Understanding Reserve Price  

Reserve prices are intended to protect the owner of an auctioned item from an unfavorable outcome. On sites like eBay, the reserve price is hidden, and until the reserve is met, the system will show "Reserve Not Met."



When the reserve price is met, the system will display "Reserve Met." Once a bidder submits a bid that has met the reserve price, the bid is binding, obligating the buyer to purchase the auction item or service and obligating the seller to sell the item or service.



Sellers can disclose the reserve price in their descriptions or upon request from potential buyers. Some auction bidders are opposed to reserve prices because they reduce the possibility of winning the auction at a bargain price and because they create uncertainty as to the minimum price that must be paid to win the auction.



Some auction companies and sites (e.g., eBay) allow sellers to set reserve prices for an additional fee as it is considered an optional feature, and some allow for the reserve price to be changed while an auction is active. If changes are allowed, the seller can only reduce the reserve price. When a reserve price is disallowed, such as with an absolute auction, owners are typically prohibited from bidding on their items as doing so would allow them to manipulate the process.



All auctions are not the same. The parties to an auction should thus carefully review the rules and guidelines before entering into a selling agreement or submitting bids.






Sellers are not obligated to sell if the reserve price is not met.


   Reserve Price vs. Opening Bid  

Oftentimes, the reserve price and the opening price/bid are used interchangeably. However, they are not the same. While the reserve price is the minimum price a seller is willing to accept, the opening bid is the amount suggested to start bidding. Bidders are not obligated to accept the opening bid, and if an item receives no bids, the auctioneer will lower the starting/opening bid price.



If an opening bid is too high, it may cause bidders to become disinterested even if the item price is subsequently lowered. It's like listing a residential property for sale. If the price is too high, many potential buyers become disinterested, and regaining their interest is difficult even when the price is lowered. Therefore, professional auctioneers suggest starting with a lower starting bid to gain interest. Once bidders are interested and begin bidding, they are invested and will likely continue until a higher price is secured.


   Example of a Reserve Price  

For example, an Ohio auction house has scheduled an auction to liquidate the equipment from a bankrupt manufacturing firm. One item on auction is a stamping press used to shape sheets of steel into automotive body panels. The auction firm sets a reserve price of $250,000 based on the recommendation of the bankruptcy trustee but opens the bidding at $100,000.



After several bidders bring the price to $175,000, a firm that once competed with the bankrupt parts maker bids $200,000 for the press. No one else offers a higher bid, and the auctioneer removes the press from the auction because the reserve price is unmet.
What Is the Reserve Ratio?  

The reserve ratio is the portion of reservable liabilities that commercial banks must hold onto, rather than lend out or invest. This is a requirement determined by the country's central bank, which in the United States is the Federal Reserve. It is also known as the cash reserve ratio.



The minimum amount of reserves that a bank must hold on to is referred to as the reserve requirement, and is sometimes used synonymously with the reserve ratio. The reserve ratio is specified by the Federal Reserve Board’s Regulation D. Regulation D created a set of uniform reserve requirements for all depository institutions with transaction accounts, and requires banks to provide regular reports to the Federal Reserve.





Key Takeaways

The reserve ratio, set by the central bank, is the percentage of a commercial bank's deposits that it must keep in cash as a reserve in case of mass customer withdrawalsIn the U.S., the Fed uses the reserve ratio as an important monetary policy tool to increase or decrease the economy's money supplyThe Fed lowers the reserve ratio to give banks more money to lend and boost the economy and increases the reserve ratio when it needs to reduce the money supply and control inflation












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   The Formula for the Reserve Ratio  

﻿














Reserve Requirement


=


Deposits


×


Reserve Ratio







\begin{aligned} &\text{Reserve Requirement} =\text{Deposits} \times \text{Reserve Ratio} \\ \end{aligned}


​Reserve Requirement=Deposits×Reserve Ratio​﻿



As a simplistic example, assume the Federal Reserve determined the reserve ratio to be 11%. This means if a bank has deposits of $1 billion, it is required to have $110 million on reserve ($1 billion x .11 = $110 million).





0%

During the pandemic of 2020, the Federal Reserve reduced the reserve requirements to 0%.


   What Does the Reserve Ratio Tell You?  

The Federal Reserve uses the reserve ratio as one of its key monetary policy tools. The Fed may choose to lower the reserve ratio to increase the money supply in the economy. A lower reserve ratio requirement gives banks more money to lend, at lower interest rates, which makes borrowing more attractive to customers.



Conversely, the Fed increases the reserve ratio requirement to reduce the amount of funds banks have to lend. The Fed uses this mechanism to reduce the supply of money in the economy and control inflation by slowing the economy down.



The Fed also sets reserve ratios to ensure that banks have money on hand to prevent them from running out of cash in the event of panicked depositors wanting to make mass withdrawals. If a bank doesn't have the funds to meet its reserve, it can borrow funds from the Fed to satisfy the requirement.



Banks must hold reserves either as cash in their vaults or as deposits with a Federal Reserve Bank. On Oct. 1, 2008, the Federal Reserve began paying interest to banks on these reserves. This rate was referred to as the interest rate on required reserves (IORR). There was also an interest rate on excess reserves (IOER), which is paid on any funds a bank deposits with the Federal Reserve in excess of their reserve requirement. On July 19, 2021, the IORR and IOER were replaced with a new simplified measure, the interest on reserve balances (IORB). As of 2022, the IORB rate is 0.10%.






U.S. commercial banks are required to hold reserves against their total reservable liabilities (deposits) which cannot be lent out by the bank. Reservable liabilities include net transaction accounts, nonpersonal time deposits and Eurocurrency liabilities.


   Reserve Ratio Guidelines  

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve has the sole authority over changes in reserve requirements within limits specified by law. As of March 26, 2020, the reserve requirement was set at 0%. That's when the board eliminated the reserve requirement due to the global financial crisis. This means that banks aren't required to keep deposits at their Reserve Bank. Instead, they can use the funds to lend to their customers.



The last time the Fed updated its reserve requirements for different depository institutions before the pandemic was in January 2019. Banks with more than $124.2 million in net transaction accounts were required to maintain a reserve of 10% of net transaction accounts. Banks with more than $16.3 million to $124.2 million needed to reserve 3% of net transaction accounts. Banks with net transaction accounts of up to $16.3 million or less were not required to have a reserve requirement. The majority of banks in the United States fell into the first category. The Fed set a 0% requirement for nonpersonal time deposits and Eurocurrency liabilities.


   Reserve Ratio and the Money Multiplier  

In fractional reserve banking, the reserve ratio is key to understanding how much credit money banks can make by lending out deposits. For example, if a bank has $500 million in deposits, it must hold $50 million, or 10%, in reserve. It may then lend out the remaining 90%, or $450 million, which will make its way back to the banking system as new deposits. Banks may then lend out 90% of that amount, or $405 million while retaining $45 million in reserves. That $405 million will be deposited again, and so on. Ultimately, that $500 million in deposits can turn into $5 billion in loans, where the 10% reserve requirement defines the so-called money multiplier as:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020
What Are Reserve Requirements?  

Reserve requirements are the amount of cash that financial institutions must have, in their vaults or at the closest Federal Reserve bank, in line with deposits made by their customers. Set by the Fed's board of governors, reserve requirements are one of the three main tools of monetary policy—the other two tools are open market operations and the discount rate.



Banks, credit unions, and savings and loan associations must meet reserve requirements. So must U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks, Edge Act corporations and agreement corporations.



On March 15, 2020, the Federal Reserve Board announced that reserve requirements ratios would be set to 0%, effective March 26, 2020. Prior to the change effective March 26, 2020, the reserve requirement ratios on net transactions accounts differed based on the amount of net transactions accounts at the institution.





Key Takeaways

Reserve requirements are the amount of funds that a bank holds in reserve to ensure that it is able to meet liabilities in case of sudden withdrawals.Reserve requirements are a tool used by the central bank to increase or decrease the money supply in the economy and influence interest rates.Reserve requirements are currently set at zero as a response to the COVID-19 pandemic.


   Understanding Reserve Requirements  

Banks loan funds to customers based on a fraction of the cash they have on hand. The government makes one requirement of them in exchange for this ability: keep a certain amount of deposits on hand to cover possible withdrawals. This amount is called the reserve requirement, and it is the percentage that banks must keep in reserve and are not allowed to lend.



If a bank doesn't have enough cash to meet the reserve requirement, it borrows from other banks or from the Fed's discount window. The interest banks charge each other to borrow is called the federal funds rate, and it's the basis for many other interest rates in the economy.



The Federal Reserve's Board of Governors sets the requirement as well as the interest rate banks get paid on excess reserves. The Financial Services Regulatory Relief Act of 2006 gave the Federal Reserve the right to pay interest on excess reserves. The effective date on which banks started getting paid interest was Oct. 1, 2011. This rate of interest is referred to as the interest rate on excess reserves and serves as a proxy for the federal funds rate.



The reserve requirement is another tool that the Fed has at its disposal to control liquidity in the financial system. By reducing the reserve requirement, the Fed is executing an expansionary monetary policy, and conversely, when it raises the requirement, it's exercising a contractionary monetary policy. This latter action cuts liquidity and causes a cool down in the economy.



In other words, when the Fed raises reserve requirements, banks have less to lend out to consumers and businesses. That in turn raises interest rates. When the Fed drops reserve requirements, the opposite happens: Interest rates fall.


   Reserve Requirements History   

The practice of holding reserves started with the first commercial banks during the early 19th century. Each bank had its own note that was only used within its geographic area of operation. Exchanging it to another banknote in a different region was expensive and risky because of the lack of information about funds at the other bank.



To overcome this problem, banks in New York and New Jersey arranged for voluntary redemption at each other's branches on the condition that the issuing bank and redeeming bank both maintained an agreed upon deposit of gold or its equivalent. Subsequently, the National Bank Act of 1863 imposed 25% reserve requirements for banks under its charge. Those requirements and a tax on state banknotes in 1865 ensured that national bank notes replaced other currencies as a medium of exchange.



The creation of the Federal Reserve and its constituent banks in 1913 as a lender of last resort further eliminated risks and costs required in maintaining reserves and pared-down reserve requirements from their earlier high levels. For example, reserve requirements for three types of banks under the Federal Reserve were set at 13%, 10%, and 7% in 1917.



In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve reduced the reserve requirement ratio to zero across all deposit tiers, effective March 26, 2020. The aim of this reduction was to jump-start the economy by allowing banks to use additional liquidity to lend to individuals and businesses.





Dec. 23, 1913

The day President Woodrow Wilson signed the Federal Reserve Act into law, thus creating the Federal Reserve.


   Reserve Requirements vs. Capital Requirements  

Some countries don't have reserve requirements. These countries include Canada, the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Australia, and Sweden. Instead, some of these countries must adhere to capital requirements, which is the amount of equity a bank or financial institution must hold as required by its financial regulator. 



Reserve requirements refer to the amount of liquid assets a bank must hold, and they're intended to protect the institution from runs on deposits. Capital requirements are meant to absorb losses on loans and other investments.


   Example of Reserve Requirements  

As an example, assume a bank has $200 million in deposits and is required to hold 10%. The bank is now allowed to lend out $180 million, which drastically decreases bank credit—the amount of money the loans the bank can make to customers.



In addition to providing a buffer against bank runs and a layer of liquidity, reserve requirements are also used as a monetary tool by the Federal Reserve. By increasing the reserve requirement, the Federal Reserve is essentially taking money out of the money supply and increasing the cost of credit. Lowering the reserve requirement pumps money into the economy by giving banks excess reserves, which promotes the expansion of bank credit and lowers rates.




Who Sets the Reserve Requirement?
In the United States, the Federal Reserve Board sets the reserve requirements. The Federal Reserve Board receives its authority to set reserve requirements from the Federal Reserve Act. The Board establishes reserve requirements as a way to carry out a monetary policy on deposits and other liabilities of depository institutions.




What Does a Lower Reserve Requirement Mean?
A lower reserve requirement means the Federal Reserve is pursuing an expansionary monetary policy. The lower reserve requirement means banks do not need to keep as much cash on hand. This gives them more money for consumer and business loans.




What Does a Higher Reserve Requirement Mean?
A higher reserve requirement means the Federal Reserve is pursuing a contractionary monetary policy. If banks have a higher reserve requirement, there will be less money available to lend to consumers and businesses. However, this money will then provide the banks with a level of protection against possible bank failure should there be an economic downturn or a run on the bank.


   Bottom Line  

Reserve requirements specify the amount of cash a bank must have close at hand in order to cover sudden withdrawals and protect the system from bank runs by depositors. The bank can hold the reserves in a vault or at the closest Fed bank.



When the Fed raises the reserve requirement, that lowers the amount banks can lend. With a tighter money supply, banks can charge more to lend, which raises interest rates.
What Is a Resident Alien?  

A resident alien is a foreign-born United States resident who is not an American citizen. A resident alien is also known as a permanent resident or a lawful permanent resident, which means they are considered an immigrant who has been legally and lawfully recorded as a resident of the country. A resident alien must have a green card or pass a substantial presence test.





Key Takeaways

A resident alien is a foreign-born, non-U.S. citizen who lives in the U.S. Resident aliens must have a green card or pass a substantial presence test. In general, a resident alien is subject to the same taxes as a U.S. citizen.


   Understanding Resident Alien  

A resident alien is defined as someone who is a permanent resident of the country in which they reside but does not have citizenship. To fall under this classification in the United States, a person needs to either have a current green card or have had one in the previous calendar year.



People can also fall under the U.S. classification of resident aliens if they pass the substantial presence test. In order to do so, they must have been in the United States for more than 31 days during the current year and for at least 183 days over a three-year period, including the current year.



According to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), there are three types of resident aliens:



Permanent resident: This is someone who has been given the lawful and legal right by the government to live in the United States.
Conditional resident: This person receives a two-year green card, which is usually given to people who have applied for residency based on marriage or because they are entrepreneurs. A person must apply to have the conditions removed 90 days before the green card expires, or else the permanent resident status will be removed.
Returning resident: This is any lawful permanent resident who has been outside the U.S. and is returning to the country. This person must apply for re-admission if they have been outside the U.S. for more than 180 days.



There are differences between these three types. For example, a resident alien can use foreign tax credits, whereas a non-resident cannot. A resident alien is subject to the same taxes as a U.S. citizen, while a non-resident alien only pays tax on domestic income that is generated within the United States, not including capital gains.





Fast Fact

The U.S. Department of Homeland Security recorded admitting 707,362 new permanent residents in 2020, the most recent figure available as of Sep. 28, 2021. This is a 31% decrease from 2019, when the U.S admitted 1,031,765 new permanent residents.


   Resident Alien vs. Non-Resident Alien  

There are some notable differences in how resident and non-resident aliens are seen in the eyes of the law. For example, a resident alien can use foreign tax credits, whereas a non-resident cannot. A resident alien is subject to the same taxes as a U.S. citizen, while a non-resident alien only pays tax on domestic income that is generated within the United States, not including capital gains.



Resident aliens are required to report income from sources both within and outside the United States. Income is reported using Form 1040. Non-resident aliens, on the other hand, report domestic income using Form 1040NR or Form 1040NR-EZ.


   Special Considerations  

It is possible to be considered exempt from resident alien status, in which case a person does not need to prove compliance with the green card test or the substantial presence test. Situations in which a person is present in the United States on government-related issues or when a student or teacher is temporarily present in the United States are both examples of exemptions.



These exempt aliens can, depending on the situation, file for an adjustment of status, a process that allows them to remain in the country and to apply to become a permanent resident with resident alien status. 




How Is a Resident Alien Defined in the United States?
An individual is classified as a resident alien of the U.S. for tax purposes if they meet either the green card test or the substantial presence test for the calendar year (January 1-December 31). The green card test states that a person needs to either have a current green card or have had one in the previous calendar year. The substantial presence test requires that a person has been in the U.S. for more than 31 days during the current year and 183 days during a three-year period that includes the current year and the two years prior.




What Are the Three Types of U.S. Resident Aliens?
According to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), there are three categories of resident alien. A permanent resident, also known as a green card holder, is someone who has been given the lawful and legal right by the government to live in the United States. A conditional resident is a person who receives a two-year green card, which is usually given to people who have applied for residency based on marriage. Returning resident is any lawful permanent resident who has been outside the U.S. and is returning to the country. A subset of this is a "special immigrant" who must apply for readmission if they have been outside the U.S. for more than 180 days. 




How Does Taxation Differ for Non-Resident and Resident Aliens?
The main difference lies in how non-resident and resident aliens are taxed. For example, a resident alien can use foreign tax credits, whereas a non-resident cannot. However, in general, a resident alien is subject to the same taxes as a U.S. citizen, while a non-resident alien only pays tax on domestic income that is generated within the U.S., not including capital gains. Resident aliens are required to report worldwide income from sources both within and outside the United States. Income is reported using Form 1040. Non-resident aliens, on the other hand, report domestic income using Form 1040NR or Form 1040NR-EZ.
What Is a Residential Mortgage-Backed Security (RMBS)?  

Residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) are debt-based assets backed by the interest paid on residential loans. Mortgages and home-equity loans have a comparatively low rate of default and a high rate of interest since there is a high demand for the ownership of a personal or family residence. Investor risk is mitigated by pooling many of these loans to minimize the risk of default.





Key Takeaways

A Residential Mortgage Backed Security (RMBS) pays investors based on payments from many individual mortgages.An RMBS can increase profits and decrease risk to investors.Poorly-constructed RMBS contributed to the 2008 financial crisis.


   How a Residential Mortgage-Backed Security (RMBS) Works  

A residential mortgage-backed security is constructed by a government agency such as the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) or a non-agency investment-banking firm. These entities sell or control a large number of residential loans. They package them together into a single pool of loans and essentially sell bonds backed by this pool of loans.



The payments on these loans flow through to the investors who bought into this pool, and the interest rates they receive can be better than those offered by U.S. government-backed bonds. The issuing institutions keep a fee for the management of the pool, and the risks of default on these mortgages are shared by both the issuing entities and the investors.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of an RMBS  

An RMBS has the advantage of providing less risk and greater profitability to investors. It allows the issuing entities to raise more cash for reserves, against which they can make more loans. RMBS investors include life insurance companies that benefit from an efficient way to invest billions of dollars in higher-interest rate investments than government bonds while still taking acceptable risks.



An RMBS can contain various types of mortgages. They may contain mortgages with fixed rates, floating rates, adjustable rates, and mortgages of varying credit quality. Risks associated with RMBS include financial system stress that uniformly affects all investments within the pool that underlies the asset. This risk was evident in the 2008 financial crisis.


   RMBS Investing  

Investing in a residential mortgage-backed security can expose the investor to prepayment risk and credit risk. Prepayment is when the mortgage holder pays back the mortgage before its maturity date, reducing the interest the investor receives. Credit risk for RMBS investors arises when the borrower stops making payments on his mortgage.



Residential mortgage-backed securities are utilized by financial institutions like insurance companies to provide cash flow over an extended period. Buyers of residential mortgage-backed securities often help determine how they are constructed, so they can be uniquely tailored to offset a liability or to fit investor preferences for risk, return, and timing of cash flows.




What Is the Difference Between RMBS and CMBS?
Residential Mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) are backed by residential mortgages, generally for single-family homes. Commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) are backed by commercial loans.




What Types of Mortgages Are Included in an RMBS?
RMBS are pools of residential mortgage loans that may include different types of fixed or floating-rate loans. The security can be issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and include conforming loans. Non-agency RMBS issued by private financial institutions consists of mortgages that are considered non-conforming.




Are RMBS Considered Collateral Backed Investments?
RMBS consists of pooled small mortgage home loans backed by the houses as collateral, so the default risk associated with them is commonly low.


   The Bottom Line  

Residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) are debt-based assets constructed by a government agency such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or a non-agency investment-banking firm. RMBS consists of pooled small mortgage home loans backed by the houses as collateral, so the default risk associated with them is commonly low. The payments on these loans flow through to the investors who buy into the RMBS.
What Is a Residual Dividend?  

A residual dividend is a dividend policy used by companies whereby the amount of dividends paid to shareholders amounts to what profits are left over after the company has paid for its capital expenditures (CapEx) and working capital costs.



Companies that use a residual dividend policy fund CapEx with available earnings before paying dividends to shareholders. This means the dollar amount of dividends paid to investors each year will vary. 





Key Takeaways

Residual dividend policies are adopted by companies to prioritize capital expenditures over immediate shareholder dividend payments.Companies that maintain a residual dividend policy invest in growth opportunities from profits before paying shareholders their dividends.Management adopts a residual dividend policy to invest in the company’s development, such as upgrading manufacturing capacity or adopting new methods to reduce waste, theoretically resulting in greater long-term growth.With an immediate reduction in dividend payouts and fluctuation in the amounts over time, management may need to justify its decisions to shareholders.The residual dividend policy is adopted based on the belief that investors do not have a preference whether their returns are in the form of immediate dividends or long-term capital gains.


   How a Residual Dividend Works  

A residual dividend policy means companies use earnings to pay for CapEx first. Dividends are then paid with any remaining earnings generated.



A company’s capital structure typically includes both long-term debt and equity. CapEx can be financed with a loan (debt) or by issuing more stock (equity).






Return on assets (ROA), calculated as net income divided by total assets, is commonly used to assess management’s decision-making and the success of a residual dividend policy.


   Special Considerations   

While shareholders may accept management’s strategy of using earnings to pay for CapEx, the investment community analyzes how well the firm uses asset spending to generate more income. The return on asset (ROA) formula is net income divided by total assets, and ROA is a common tool used to assess management’s performance. 



If a clothing manufacturer's decision to spend $100,000 on CapEx is the right one, the company can increase production or operate machinery at a lower cost, and both of these factors can increase profits. As net income increases the ROA ratio improves, and shareholders may be more willing to accept the residual dividend policy in the future.



However, if the firm generates lower earnings and continues to fund CapEx at the same rate, shareholder dividends decline.


   Requirements for a Residual Dividend   

When a business generates earnings, the firm can either retain the earnings for use in the company or pay the earnings as a dividend to stockholders. Retained earnings are used to fund current business operations or to buy assets. Every company needs assets to operate, and those assets may need to be upgraded over time and eventually replaced. Business managers must consider the assets required to operate the business and the need to reward shareholders by paying dividends.



For the residual dividend policy to work, it assumes the dividend irrelevance theory is true. The theory suggests that investors are indifferent to which form of return they receive from a company—whether it be dividends or capital gains. Under this theory, the residual dividend policy does not affect the company’s market value since investors value dividends and capital gains equally. 



The calculation for residual dividends is done passively. Companies using retained earnings to finance CapEx tend to use the residual policy. The dividends for investors are generally inconsistent and unpredictable. 


   Example of Residual Dividends  

A clothing manufacturer maintains a list of capital expenditures that are required in future years. In the current month, the firm needs $100,000 to upgrade machinery and buy a new piece of equipment.



The firm generates $140,000 in earnings for the month and spends $100,000 on CapEx. The remaining income of $40,000 is paid as a residual dividend to shareholders, which is $20,000 less than was paid in each of the last three months.



Shareholders might be disappointed when management chooses to lower the dividend payment, and senior management must explain the rationale behind the capital spending to justify the lower payment.
What Is Residual Income?  

Residual income is the money that continues to flow after an initial investment of time and resources has been completed. Examples of residual income include artist royalties, rental income, interest income, and dividend payments.



The term residual income is used in other contexts:



In personal finance, residual income can refer to an individual's discretionary income, or the total amount of money left over after paying all personal debts and obligations.
In corporate finance, residual income is a measurement of corporate performance that reflects the total income generated after paying all relevant costs of capital.





Key Takeaways

Personal residual income is not generated by hourly wages. Rather, it requires an initial investment of money or time or both with the primary objective of earning ongoing revenue.Residual income is often referred to as passive income. Sources of residual income include real estate investing, stocks, bonds, and royalties.Corporate residual income is leftover profit after paying all costs of capital. 












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   How Residual Income Works   

Residual income broadly speaking is a measurement of tangential profits earned after subtracting all costs of capital related to generating that income. Other terms for residual income include economic value-added, economic profit, and abnormal earnings.






Although residual income is sometimes known as passive income, side hustles can be used to boost personal residual income. 


   Types of Residual Income   
  Stock Valuation  

Residual income is also a valuation method for estimating the intrinsic value of a company's common stock. It accounts for the cost of capital, meaning the combination of debt and equity expended to finance the company's operations.



The residual income valuation model values a company as the sum of book value and the present value of expected future residual income. Residual income in this case is the profit remaining after the deduction of opportunity costs for all sources of capital.



Residual income is calculated as net income less a charge for the cost of capital. This is known as the equity charge and is calculated as the value of equity capital multiplied by the cost of equity or the required rate of return on equity.



The formula is:



Residual Income = Net Income - Equity Charge



Given the opportunity cost of equity, a company can have positive net income but negative residual income.


  Corporate Finance  

Managerial accounting defines residual income for a company as the amount of leftover operating profit after paying all costs of capital used to generate the revenues. It is also considered the company's net operating income or the amount of profit that exceeds its required rate of return.



Residual income in this case may be used to assess the performance of a capital investment, a team, a department, or a business unit.



The calculation of residual income is as follows: Residual income = operating income - (minimum required return x operating assets).


  Personal Finance  

In personal finance, residual income is synonymous with monthly disposable income. It is the total income that remains after paying all monthly debts.



Thus, residual income is often a key factor when a lender considers a loan application. An adequate amount of residual income indicates that the borrower can cover the monthly loan payment.


   How to Generate Residual Income  

Most sources of residual income require an upfront investment of money, sweat equity, or both. Some examples:



Buy bonds. Once the bonds are purchased, the owner has a stream of cash available until the bonds reach their maturity.
Buy a rental property. Renting out a second home or investment property is a sound way to add to your income without much effort after the initial investment. If you lack the seed money, consider renting out a spare bedroom.
Invest in index funds: Your profits can grow over time even if you don't actively manage your investment.
Peer-to-peer lending: The internet has opened the way to various types of residual income, including peer-to-peer lending. A number of platforms are available to facilitate personal unsecured loans between individuals at competitive rates of interest.
Sell your stuff: In the broadest sense, residual income can be any side gig that adds to your income outside your regular job. eBay is good for cleaning out your closet and making money at the same time. Etsy is great for creative types who want to monetize a hobby.


   Residual Income vs. Passive Income  

The differences are subtle. Residual income may be passive income but passive income isn't necessarily residual.



In personal finance, passive income may be derived from stock dividends or from renting a room on Airbnb. There was an initial outlay of money to buy the stocks or the house, but a tangential benefit that costs little in additional time or effort has been derived from the initial investment. It is residual income as well as passive income.



Passive income is earned with little or no effort required after the initial investment.Residual income, for an individual, means the free cash available for spending after all obligations are met.




Is Residual Income Taxable?
Yes, almost all residual income is taxable. Maybe the income from some tax-exempt municipal bonds is not taxed. Otherwise, whether you got the tax from stock dividends or renting your spare bedroom, it's taxable income.




Why Is Residual Income Important?
Residual income is often passive income. Passive income is, by definition, relatively effortless. Stock dividends and bond premiums are examples. To quote legendary investor Warren Buffet: "If you don't find a way to make money while you sleep, you will work until you die."




How Do I Calculate My Residual Income?
If you are applying for a loan, your residual income is the amount of money you have to spend after all of your monthly obligations have been paid. This is also called discretionary income.If you are planning your long-term future, residual income takes on a different meaning. It is the amount of money you generate (or plan to generate in the future) from passive sources such as dividends and interest.


   The Bottom Line  

Residual income is not free money. It requires an upfront investment of money, hard work, or sweat equity. But once that work is completed, a stream of income has been established that takes little or no effort to maintain.
What Is Residual Standard Deviation?  

Residual standard deviation is a statistical term used to describe the difference in standard deviations of observed values versus predicted values as shown by points in a regression analysis.



Regression analysis is a method used in statistics to show a relationship between two different variables, and to describe how well you can predict the behavior of one variable from the behavior of another.



Residual standard deviation is also referred to as the standard deviation of points around a fitted line or the standard error of estimate.





Key Takeaways

Residual standard deviation is the standard deviation of the residual values, or the difference between a set of observed and predicted values.The standard deviation of the residuals calculates how much the data points spread around the regression line.The result is used to measure the error of the regression line's predictability.The smaller the residual standard deviation is compared to the sample standard deviation, the more predictive, or useful, the model is.


   Understanding Residual Standard Deviation  

Residual standard deviation is a goodness-of-fit measure that can be used to analyze how well a set of data points fit with the actual model. In a business setting for example, after performing a regression analysis on multiple data points of costs over time, the residual standard deviation can provide a business owner with information on the difference between actual costs and projected costs, and an idea of how much-projected costs could vary from the mean of the historical cost data.


   Formula for Residual Standard Deviation  

﻿















Residual


=



(


Y


−



Y



e


s


t




)


















S



r


e


s




=






∑




(


Y


−



Y



e


s


t




)



2





n


−


2




















where:

















S



r


e


s




=


Residual standard deviation
















Y


=


Observed value

















Y



e


s


t




=


Estimated or projected value
















n


=


Data points in population








\begin{aligned} &\text{Residual}=\left(Y-Y_{est}\right)\\ &S_{res}=\sqrt{\frac{\sum \left(Y-Y_{est}\right)^2}{n-2}}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &S_{res}=\text{Residual standard deviation}\\ &Y=\text{Observed value}\\ &Y_{est}=\text{Estimated or projected value}\\ &n=\text{Data points in population}\\ \end{aligned}


​Residual=(Y−Yest​)Sres​=n−2∑(Y−Yest​)2​​where:Sres​=Residual standard deviationY=Observed valueYest​=Estimated or projected valuen=Data points in population​﻿


   How to Calculate Residual Standard Deviation  

To calculate the residual standard deviation, the difference between the predicted values and actual values formed around a fitted line must be calculated first. This difference is known as the residual value or, simply, residuals or the distance between known data points and those data points predicted by the model.



To calculate the residual standard deviation, plug the residuals into the residual standard deviation equation to solve the formula.


   Example of Residual Standard Deviation   

Start by calculating residual values. For example, assuming you have a set of four observed values for an unnamed experiment, the table below shows y values observed and recorded for given values of x:









x
y


1
1


2
4


3
6


4
7






If the linear equation or slope of the line predicted by the data in the model is given as yest = 1x + 2 where yest = predicted y value, the residual for each observation can be found.



The residual is equal to (y - yest), so for the first set, the actual y value is 1 and the predicted yest value given by the equation is yest = 1(1) + 2 = 3. The residual value is thus 1 – 3 = -2, a negative residual value.



For the second set of x and y data points, the predicted y value when x is 2 and y is 4 can be calculated as 1 (2) + 2 = 4.



In this case, the actual and predicted values are the same, so the residual value will be zero. You would use the same process for arriving at the predicted values for y in the remaining two data sets.



Once you’ve calculated the residuals for all points using the table or a graph, use the residual standard deviation formula.



Expanding the table above, you calculate the residual standard deviation:












 x
 y
yest
 Residual (y-yest)
Sum of each residual squared, or Σ(y-yest)2 


 1
 1
 3
 -2
 4


 2
 4
 4
 0
 0


 3
 6
 5
 1
 1


 4
 7
 6
 1
 1






Observe that the sum of the squared residuals = 6, which represents the numerator of the residual standard deviation equation.



For the bottom portion or denominator of the residual standard deviation equation, n = the number of data points, which is 4 in this case. Calculate the denominator of the equation as:



(Number of residuals - 2) = (4 - 2) = 2



Finally, calculate the square root of the results:



Residual standard deviation: √(6/2) = √3 ≈ 1.732



The magnitude of a typical residual can give you a sense of generally how close your estimates are. The smaller the residual standard deviation, the closer is the fit of the estimate to the actual data. In effect, the smaller the residual standard deviation is compared to the sample standard deviation, the more predictive, or useful, the model is.



The residual standard deviation can be calculated when a regression analysis has been performed, as well as an analysis of variance (ANOVA). When determining a limit of quantitation (LoQ), the use of a residual standard deviation is permissible instead of the standard deviation.
What Is the Residual Sum of Squares (RSS)?  

The residual sum of squares (RSS) is a statistical technique used to measure the amount of variance in a data set that is not explained by a regression model itself. Instead, it estimates the variance in the residuals, or error term.



Linear regression is a measurement that helps determine the strength of the relationship between a dependent variable and one or more other factors, known as independent or explanatory variables.





Key Takeaways

The residual sum of squares (RSS) measures the level of variance in the error term, or residuals, of a regression model.The smaller the residual sum of squares, the better your model fits your data; the greater the residual sum of squares, the poorer your model fits your data. A value of zero means your model is a perfect fit.Statistical models are used by investors and portfolio managers to track an investment's price and use that data to predict future movements. The RSS is used by financial analysts in order to estimate the validity of their econometric models.






   Understanding the Residual Sum of Squares  

In general terms, the sum of squares is a statistical technique used in regression analysis to determine the dispersion of data points. In a regression analysis, the goal is to determine how well a data series can be fitted to a function that might help to explain how the data series was generated. The sum of squares is used as a mathematical way to find the function that best fits (varies least) from the data.



The RSS measures the amount of error remaining between the regression function and the data set after the model has been run. A smaller RSS figure represents a regression function that is well-fit to the data.



The RSS, also known as the sum of squared residuals, essentially determines how well a regression model explains or represents the data in the model.


   How to Calculate the Residual Sum of Squares  

RSS = ∑ni=1 (yi - f(xi))2



Where:



yi = the ith value of the variable to be predicted



f(xi) = predicted value of yi



n = upper limit of summation


   Residual Sum of Squares (RSS) vs. Residual Standard Error (RSE)  

The residual standard error (RSE) is another statistical term used to describe the difference in standard deviations of observed values versus predicted values as shown by points in a regression analysis. It is a goodness-of-fit measure that can be used to analyze how well a set of data points fit with the actual model.



RSE is computed by dividing the RSS by the number of observations in the sample less 2, and then taking the square root: RSE = [RSS/(n-2)]1/2


   Special Considerations  

Financial markets have increasingly become more quantitatively driven; as such, in search of an edge, many investors are using advanced statistical techniques to aid in their decisions. Big data, machine learning, and artificial intelligence applications further necessitate the use of statistical properties to guide contemporary investment strategies. The residual sum of squares—or RSS statistics—is one of many statistical properties enjoying a renaissance.



Statistical models are used by investors and portfolio managers to track an investment's price and use that data to predict future movements. The study—called regression analysis—might involve analyzing the relationship in price movements between a commodity and the stocks of companies engaged in producing the commodity.






Finding the residual sum of squares (RSS) by hand can be difficult and time-consuming. Because it involves a lot of subtracting, squaring, and summing, the calculations can be prone to errors. For this reason, you may decide to use software, such as Excel, to do the calculations.



Any model might have variances between the predicted values and actual results. Although the variances might be explained by the regression analysis, the RSS represents the variances or errors that are not explained.



Since a sufficiently complex regression function can be made to closely fit virtually any data set, further study is necessary to determine whether the regression function is, in fact, useful in explaining the variance of the dataset.



Typically, however, a smaller or lower value for the RSS is ideal in any model since it means there's less variation in the data set. In other words, the lower the sum of squared residuals, the better the regression model is at explaining the data.


   Example of the Residual Sum of Squares  

For a simple (but lengthy) demonstration of the RSS calculation, consider the well-known correlation between a country's consumer spending and its GDP. The following chart reflects the published values of consumer spending and Gross Domestic Product for the 27 states of the European Union, as of 2020.










Consumer Spending vs. GDP for EU Member States




Country
Consumer Spending(Millions)
GDP(Millions)


Austria
309,018.88
433,258.47


Belgium
388,436.00
521,861.29


Bulgaria
54,647.31
69,889.35


Croatia
47,392.86
57,203.78


Cyprus
20,592.74
24,612.65


Czech Republic
164,933.47
245,349.49


Denmark
251,478.47
356,084.87


Estonia
21,776.00
30,650.29


Finland
203,731.24
269,751.31


France
2,057,126.03
2,630,317.73


Germany
2,812,718.45
3,846,413.93


Greece
174,893.21
188,835.20


Hungary
110,323.35
155,808.44


Ireland
160,561.07
425,888.95


Italy
1,486,910.44
1,888,709.44


Latvia
25,776.74
33,707.32


Lithuania
43,679.20
56,546.96


Luxembourg
35,953.29
73,353.13


Malta
9,808.76
14,647.38


Netherlands
620,050.30
913,865.40


Poland
453,186.14
596,624.36


Portugal
190,509.98
228,539.25


Romania
198,867.77
248,715.55


Slovak Republic
83,845.27
105,172.56


Slovenia
37,929.24
53,589.61


Spain
997,452.45
1,281,484.64


Sweden
382,240.92
541,220.06



World Bank, 2020.



Consumer spending and GDP have a strong positive correlation, and it is possible to predict a country's GDP based on consumer spending (CS). Using the formula for a best fit line, this relationship can be approximated as:



GDP = 1.3232 x CS + 10447



The units for both GDP and Consumer Spending are in millions of U.S. dollars.



This formula is highly accurate for most purposes, but it is not perfect, due to the individual variations in each country's economy. The following chart compares the projected GDP of each country, based on the formula above, and the actual GDP as recorded by the World Bank.












Projected and Actual GDP Figures for EU Member States, and Residual Squares




Country
Consumer Spending Most Recent Value (Millions)
GDP Most Recent Value (Millions)
Projected GDP (Based on Trendline)
Residual Square (Projected - Real)^2


Austria
309,018.88
433,258.47
419,340.782016
193,702,038.819978


Belgium
388,436.00
521,861.29
524,425.52
6,575,250.87631504


Bulgaria
54,647.31
69,889.35
82,756.320592
165,558,932.215393


Croatia
47,392.86
57,203.78
73,157.232352
254,512,641.947534


Cyprus
20,592.74
24,612.65
37,695.313568
171,156,086.033474


Czech Republic
164,933.47
245,349.49
228,686.967504
277,639,655.929706


Denmark
251,478.47
356,084.87
343,203.311504
165,934,549.28587


Estonia
21,776.00
30,650.29
39,261.00
74,144,381.8126542


Finland
203,731.24
269,751.31
280,024.176768
105,531,791.633079


France
2,057,126.03
2,630,317.73
2,732,436.162896
10,428,174,337.1349


Germany
2,812,718.45
3,846,413.93
3,732,236.05304
13,036,587,587.0929


Greece
174,893.21
188,835.20
241,865.695472
2,812,233,450.00581


Hungary
110,323.35
155,808.44
156,426.85672
382,439.239575558


Ireland
160,561.07
425,888.95
222,901.407824
41,203,942,278.6534


Italy
1,486,910.44
1,888,709.44
1,977,926.894208
7,959,754,135.35658


Latvia
25,776.74
33,707.32
44,554.782368
117,667,439.825176


Lithuania
43,679.20
56,546.96
68,243.32
136,804,777.364243


Luxembourg
35,953.29
73,353.13
58,020.393328
235,092,813.852894


Malta
9,808.76
14,647.38
23,425.951232
77,063,312.875298


Netherlands
620,050.30
913,865.40
830,897.56
6,883,662,978.71


Poland
453,186.14
596,624.36
610,102.900448
181,671,052.608372


Portugal
190,509.98
228,539.25
262,529.805536
1,155,357,865.6459


Romania
198,867.77
248,715.55
273,588.833264
618,680,220.331183


Slovak Republic
83,845.27
105,172.56
121,391.061264
263,039,783.25037


Slovenia
37,929.24
53,589.61
60,634.970368
49,637,102.7149851


Spain
997,452.45
1,281,484.64
1,330,276.08184
2,380,604,796.8261


Sweden
382,240.92
541,220.06
516,228.185344
624,593,798.821215



World Bank, 2020.



The column on the right indicates the residual squares–the squared difference between each projected value and its actual value. The numbers appear large, but their sum is actually lower than the RSS for any other possible trendline. If a different line had a lower RSS for these data points, that line would be the best fit line.




Is the Residual Sum of Squares the Same as R-Squared?
The residual sum of squares (RSS) is the absolute amount of explained variation, whereas R-squared is the absolute amount of variation as a proportion of total variation.




Is RSS the Same as the Sum of Squared Estimate of Errors (SSE)?
The residual sum of squares (RSS) is also known as the sum of squared estimate of errors (SSE).




What Is the Difference Between the Residual Sum of Squares and Total Sum of Squares?
The total sum of squares (TSS) measures how much variation there is in the observed data, while the residual sum of squares measures the variation in the error between the observed data and modeled values. In statistics, the values for the residual sum of squares and the total sum of squares (TSS) are oftentimes compared to each other.




Can a Residual Sum of Squares Be Zero?
The residual sum of squares can be zero. The smaller the residual sum of squares, the better your model fits your data; the greater the residual sum of squares, the poorer your model fits your data. A value of zero means your model is a perfect fit.
What Is Residual Value?  

The residual value, also known as salvage value, is the estimated value of a fixed asset at the end of its lease term or useful life. In lease situations, the lessor uses the residual value as one of its primary methods for determining how much the lessee pays in periodic lease payments. As a general rule, the longer the useful life or lease period of an asset, the lower its residual value.





Key Takeaways

The residual value of an asset is based on what a company expects to receive in exchange for selling the asset at the end of its lease term or useful life.Different industries and fields use residual value differently.The residual value will influence the total depreciable amount a company uses in its depreciation schedule.Generally, the useful life or lease period is inversely related to the residual value of an asset.If you lease a car for three years, its residual value is how much it is worth after three years. 












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Residual Value  

Residual value formulas differ across industries, but its general meaning—what remains—is constant. In capital budgeting projects, residual values reflect how much you can sell an asset for after the firm has finished using it or once the asset-generated cash flows can no longer be accurately predicted. For investments, the residual value is calculated as the difference between profits and the cost of capital. 



In accounting, owner's equity is the residual net assets after the deduction of liabilities. In the field of mathematics, specifically in regression analysis, the residual value is found by subtracting the predicted value from the observed or measured value.


   How to Calculate Residual Value  

There are two components to calculating residual value: estimated salvage value and the cost of asset disposal. The net proceeds received by the disposition less the cost of disposal is the residual value.



Residual Value = Salvage Value - Cost of Asset Disposal



Be mindful that for assets with a low salvage value and high cost to dispose of, it is entirely possible to have a negative residual value. This means it will result in a liability for a company to be rid of the asset at the end of its useful life. A strong example is assets that must adhere to regulatory disposal requirements to remove waste without environmental contamination.



The difficulty in calculating residual value lies in the fact that both the salvage value and the cost to dispose of the asset may not truly be known until disposition. Management must make an estimate on both, and companies often rely heavily on comparable assets or transactions that have happened in the past to better understand the financial implications of their own item(s).



Management must periodically reevaluate the estimated value of the asset as asset deterioration, obsolescence, or changes in market preference may reduce the salvage value. In addition, the cost to dispose of the asset may become more expensive over time due to government regulation or inflation.






Though residual value is an important part in preparing a company's financial statements, residual value is often not directly shown on the reports.


   Uses of Residual Value  

If you lease a car for three years, its residual value is how much it is worth after three years. The residual value is determined by the bank that issues the lease, and it is based on past models and future predictions. Along with interest rate and tax, the residual value is an important factor in determining the car's monthly lease payments.



Additionally, consider the example of a business owner whose desk has a useful life of seven years. How much the desk is worth at the end of seven years (its fair market value as determined by agreement or appraisal) is its residual value, also known as salvage value. This information is helpful to management to know how much cash flow it may receive if it were to sell the desk at the end of its useful life.


   Residual Value vs. Resale Value  

Residual value and resale value are two terms that are often used when discussing car-purchasing and leasing terms. Using the example of leasing a car, the residual value would be a car’s estimated worth at the end of its lease term. Residual value is used to determine the monthly payment amount for a lease and the price the person holding the lease would have to pay to purchase the car at the end of the lease.



The residual value of cars is often expressed as a percentage of the manufacturer’s suggested retail price (MSRP). For example, residual may be expressed this way: $30,000 MSRP * Residual Value of 50% = $15,000 value after 3 years. So, a car with an MSRP of $30,000 and a residual value of 50% after three years would be worth $15,000 at the end of its lease.



Resale value is a similar concept, but it refers to a car that has been purchased, rather than leased. So resale value refers to the value of a purchased car after depreciation, mileage, and damage. While residual value is pre-determined and based on MSRP, the resale value of a car can change based on market conditions.






If you decide to buy your leased car, the price is the residual value plus any fees.


   Calculating Depreciation/Amortization Using Residual Value  

Residual value also figures into a company's calculation of depreciation or amortization. Suppose a company acquires a new software program to track sales orders internally. This software has an initial value of $10,000 and a useful life of five years. To calculate yearly amortization for accounting purposes, the owner needs the software's residual value, or what it is worth at the end of the five years.



Assume this value is zero and the company uses the straight-line method to amortize the software. Therefore, the company must subtract the residual value of zero from the $10,000 initial value and divide by the asset's useful life of five years to arrive at its yearly amortization, which is $2,000. If the residual value were $2,000, the yearly amortization would be $1,600 ($10,000 - $2,000 / 5 years).



For tangible assets, such as cars, computers, and machinery, a business owner would use the same calculation, only instead of amortizing the asset over its useful life, he would depreciate it. The initial value minus the residual value is also referred to as the "depreciable base."




What Is Residual Value in Statistics?
In regression analysis, the difference between the observed value of the dependent variable and the predicted value is called the residual. Each data point has one residual.




How Is Residual Value Calculated?
To determine the residual value of an asset, you must consider the estimated amount that the asset's owner would earn by selling the asset (minus any costs that might be incurred during the disposal).Residual value is often used when referring to a leased car. The residual value of a car is the estimated value of the car at the end of the lease. The residual value of a car is calculated by the bank or financial institution; it is typically calculated as a percentage of the manufacturer's suggested retail price (MSRP).




Is Residual Value the Same As Buyout?
Residual value and a lease buyout are two different things. A lease buyout is an option that is contained in some lease agreements that give you the option to buy your leased vehicle at the end of your lease. The price you will pay for a lease buyout will be based on the residual value of the car.




What Is Considered a Good Residual Value?
Residual value is often used in the context of leases for cars. The residual value is the value of the car at the end of the lease term. A good residual value is 55%-65% of the manufacturer's suggested retail price (MSRP).For other assets, companies aim to have a residual value as high as possible. This means that not only do they get to utilize the asset over its useful life, they also get to recover funds for the asset when they are done using it.


   The Bottom Line  

Residual value is one of the most important aspects of calculating the terms of a lease. It refers to the future value of a good (typically the future date is when the lease ends). When used in the context of a car lease, residual value is calculated using a number of different factors such as market value, seasonality, product lifecycle, and consumer preferences over time. In accounting, residual value refers to the remaining value of an asset after it has been fully depreciated.
What Is Resistance ?  

Resistance is one of the foundational elements of technical analysis (along with its corollary: support). Resistance is a price or price zone above the current market that contains the upside movement of an asset. Resistance is where selling interest appears over time, blocking further upside progress.



Resistance can be a single price point, such as the high of the day or the hourly high. Resistance can also be a zone, meaning an area several points wide, such as $0.50/$1.00. A resistance zone represents a test of the resistance level, which may be broken by a small amount, but ultimately turns back the price advance, leaving the resistance level essentially intact. It could also be interpreted to mean that there is even more supply around the resistance zone, potentially signaling a reversal lower.



Resistance can be found in any time frame of chart analysis, where a longer time frame (daily or weekly) suggests a more important, multiday resistance level, while a short-term chart (hourly or 30 minutes) may reveal only minor resistance (good for day traders).





Key Takeaways

A resistance level represents a price point or price zone that an asset has had trouble breaking above in the time period being considered.A resistance level may be several points wide, due to multiple attempts to break above the resistance, potentially forming a resistance zone and sending prices lower.Trendline analysis is a simple but powerful way to identify areas of resistance, while other mathematical methods are frequently used as well.Resistance levels are important to identify for multiple reasons: where to place a stop for a short position; where to place a take-profit order for a long position; and when to enter a long position on a break of resistance (a breakout trade).


   How Do Supply and Demand Affect Resistance?  

Demand for an asset is what propels it higher over time, absorbing market supply along the way. Liquidity refers to the amount of total supply and demand at any given time. High liquidity is likely to limit the overall share price movement, while low liquidity may see prices move excessively, potentially making a gap.



The source of the demand may be a piece of macroeconomic news, such as a comment from a Federal Reserve official or an earnings release. After a series of gains, however, the demand may eventually lessen or stop altogether, as in “the buying spree has ended.” If the price forms a top, then it now functions as a point or zone of resistance.



Supply can come from multiple sources, such as take-profit selling around a resistance point or zone. Another example is where option holders may want to defend their option positions by selling a lot of shares at a specific price point ahead of resistance. And of course, macro news may pull traders in to short the market for a specific stock or other asset if negative news emerges, leaving a resistance point behind in its wake.


   Resistance Is Made to Be Broken  

Using technical analysis, traders can identify a particular point or zone of resistance. That resistance zone is likely to be tested amid an uptrend. If the trend and buying interest are sufficient to challenge a resistance point, traders may find that the resistance area breaks, bringing in yet more breakout buyers. Stop-loss buy orders above the resistance area may also come in to play, bringing in yet another source of buying and clearly breaking above the resistance.



After a resistance point has been overcome, it is not unusual to see sellers briefly test lower to the breakpoint to see if it holds. If it does, traders are likely to conclude that the break of resistance is valid and that the upside is in play. This is an example of a broken resistance level turning into support. Known as the Polarity Principle, once resistance is broken, it becomes support, and vice versa. Whether it is now major or minor support depends on the time frame of the resistance. A break above a recent daily high is more bullish than a break of an hourly resistance point.


   Trading Using Resistance  

Once identified as a point of resistance, agile traders may seek to sell short on the approach to a particular resistance point, say $105 per share, or take profit on existing longs at or near to $105, both fresh sources of supply potentially reinforcing the resistance point. Traders who went short ahead of the resistance on speculation will be looking to buy back once the anticipated down move looks like it is about to end, or does end.



If the price moves higher to test the resistance point, those take-profit sell orders may get filled, reducing one source of supply. If speculative short sellers also get their orders filled, another source of supply is now gone. Most likely, the short sellers probably have left stop-loss buy orders higher above the resistance point or zone, allowing a margin of error for slippage. Should the uptrend continue and eventually break above the resistance level, those stop-loss buy orders may get triggered, generating a new source of demand that pushes the price higher. Alert breakout traders may enter the market on the buy side, adding another source of buying demand.


   Identifying Resistance Levels with Trendlines  

Trendlines are powerful tools to analyze a security’s historical price action and identify resistance levels. The chart below shows an hourly view of NVIDIA Corp. stock (NVDA). Note how an hourly top is formed at 220.00/50 and is subsequently broken, leading to gains in the price to 230.00/50, which is tested again and holds—forming a double top in the process. Also, note that 220.00/50 later becomes a pivot line, acting both as support and resistance on multiple occasions, respecting the notion of polarity, that broken resistance becomes support and vice versa.













In the daily NVDA chart below, we see how trendlines and basic pattern recognition can provide significant price signals and trading opportunities. On the left side, a double top pattern is formed over several days, suggesting a top and opening up downside potential. The following lows create a horizontal trendline that holds after the price failed again at the $190-per-share level. The price eventually tests the $140-per-share trendline level, which holds, and the price goes into a strong upward channel, breaking above the $190 major resistance, and extends to the $230-per-share level. Another double top is formed there, suggesting that the uptrend is over for the time being.













Alert readers may have noticed that the resistance levels encountered above are key and big round numbers like 140, 190, and 230. These are frequently referred to as psychological “big figures,” meaning traders pay close attention to these levels as potential zones of support and resistance. There may be no good reason to pay attention to them on their own, but psychological behavior makes them potential resistance levels.


   Identifying Resistance Levels with Trading Systems  

Many different technical tools can be used to identify likely resistance levels based on mathematical formulas. Among them are simple and exponential moving averages (20, 50, and 100 are favorites), Ichimoku Cloud charts, and Bollinger Bands, to name a few.



Below is an example of a daily NVDA chart with Bollinger Bands overlaid. Bollinger Bands are a momentum indicator set at two standard deviations from a simple 20-day moving average in the center. As you can see, the upper Bollinger Band neatly contains the price advances over the course of weeks, giving traders an up-to-date upper resistance band. That level could be used to take profit on long positions, while the moving average in the middle identifies the overall trend.














What Is Resistance?
Resistance is a price point or price zone that acts to limit gains in a security due to greater supply than demand.




How Do I Identify Resistance Levels?
Resistance levels can be identified through technical analysis of charts and the various tools that come with them. Among the favorite tools used to identify resistance levels are key highs, trendlines, moving averages (simple and exponential), Bollinger Bands, and Ichimoku Cloud charts.




How Do I Trade with Resistance Levels?
It depends on your position and view of the market, as resistance will eventually be broken at some point. An aggressive trader might go short from just below the resistance level, looking for a pullback or reversal lower, essentially speculating that the resistance will hold. That same trader would also likely place a buy-stop order above the resistance zone in case it breaks. A breakout trader might jump in on the long side if the resistance area is breached. A trader who is long might want to place a take-profit order to sell near to the resistance zone.




What Is the Polarity Principle?
The Polarity Principle refers to the price phenomenon whereby once resistance is broken, it becomes support, and vice versa. A break of a resistance zone will usually see a quick test of the breakout level to see if the break holds, or if it fails and reverses lower.


   The Bottom Line  

A resistance point or zone develops when prices are unable to move higher from that zone. Resistance levels can be found on short-term or long-term charts, with long-term resistance levels carrying more weight for the overall direction of the next move in the security. Resistance levels are identified by technical analysis or visual inspection, using such tools as trendlines, horizontal lines, moving averages, and Bollinger Bands.



From a trading perspective, resistance levels offer various trading opportunities. You may go with the flow and buy into a resistance zone, looking for a break higher. You might jump in on the long side after a breakout has occurred. Or, you could look to sell into the resistance zone, going short, holding the view that the resistance will hold and prices will turn lower. No matter your situation, once prices near a resistance zone, it’s time to take notice of the price action and subsequent opportunities.
What Is the Resolution Trust Corporation?  

The Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) is a now-defunct temporary federal agency. From 1989 to 1995, it largely resolved the savings and loan (S&L) crisis of the 1980s, which resulted in about a third of such U.S. institutions failing within a 10-year span. The RTC became a massive property-management company, cleaning up what was, at the time, the largest collapse of U.S. financial institutions since the Great Depression.



The RTC closed failed financial institutions placed in conservatorship by selling or merging troubled thrifts and folding their assets back into the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The RTC accomplished its work in roughly six years, slowly at first, but then by selling pools of assets at heavy discounts to private investors, which allowed the RTC to participate in any future market gains from those pools.



The RTC shuttered a total of 747 failed financial institutions, with total assets of $394 billion. It also liquidated the assets of these institutions.


   Understanding the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC)  

The Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) sought to maximize value from the sale of assets from failed S&Ls while minimizing the impact on real estate and financial markets.



The financial troubles that led to the RTC’s creation began in the 1970s. The S&L crisis stemmed from risky investments made in both the 1970s and 1980s by many small and supposedly safe S&Ls. Thousands of them failed after using investors’ passbook savings to buy fixed-rate home mortgages, which were not very liquid. Many institutions made these investments to take advantage of a poor federal policy in which all S&Ls paid the same rate of federal deposit insurance, no matter the riskiness of their underlying assets. This eventually caused the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation to fail, at which time the FDIC took over its responsibilities.


   Pros and Cons of the Resolution Trust Corporation  

The RTC faced many criticisms at the time, including the program’s cost, estimated at $130 million. Many critics balked at tax dollars being used to rescue private financial institutions.



Perhaps a sharper criticism, however, is that the failing S&Ls seemingly posed little threat to the global economy, global markets, or, arguably, even the U.S. economy. Most economists today do not point to the S&L crisis as the primary cause of the 1990-91 recession, for example. In retrospect, the threats posed by the failure of many small savings institutions pale in comparison to such things as the failure of Lehman Brothers in 2008.



Some may argue, however, that the experiences of the RTC, especially the pooling and packaging of assets and allowing the government to participate in any market upside from the bailout, helped in making decisions about future government bailouts.
What Is the Resource Curse?  

The term resource curse refers to a paradoxical situation in which a country underperforms economically, despite being home to valuable natural resources. A resource curse is generally caused by too much of the country’s capital and labor force concentrated in just a few resource-dependent industries. By failing to make adequate investments in other sectors, countries can become vulnerable to declines in commodity prices, leading to long-run economic underperformance.





Key Takeaways

The resource curse refers to countries that underperform economically, despite benefitting from valuable natural resources.It mainly occurs when a country focuses all of its production means on a resource-dependent sector.This can lead to becoming very dependent on the price of a particular commodity, making it difficult to continue developing the economy.Diversifying a nation's economy can help it avoid a resource curse.Angola and Saudi Arabia both suffer from the resource curse, although Saudi Arabia has had success diversifying in recent years.


   How the Resource Curse Works  

The resource curse is a paradoxical situation in which countries with an abundance of non-renewable natural resources experience stagnant economic growth or even economic contraction. Although there may be multiple reasons to explain why a resource curse happens, the phenomenon mainly occurs when a country begins to focus all of its production means on a single industry, such as mining or oil production, and neglects investment in other major sectors.



Also called a resource trap or paradox of plenty, it may also result from government corruption. If a large share of national wealth is concentrated in just a few industries, the government might abuse its regulatory powers, such as by awarding valuable contracts based on bribes. An overabundance of labor and capital that flow into just a small handful of sectors may weaken the rest of the economy and harm the country overall.



This type of problem is often observed in developing economies that discover large natural resource deposits. Once a natural resource is discovered, available investment capital tends to gravitate to this industry.



This new industry becomes a source of economic growth and relative economic prosperity, offering attractive wages, and encouraging citizens to invest their savings in the new industry. In the long run, this dynamic can lead to countries becoming very dependent on the price of that particular commodity, subsequently making it difficult to continue developing the economy.






The term resource curse is attributed to Richard Auty, who wrote about the concept in his 1993 book titled Sustaining Development in the Mineral Economies: The Resource Curse Thesis.


   Special Considerations  

The resource curse is considerably noticeable when it comes to one particular natural resource: petroleum. The political science department at the University of California, Los Angeles, conducted a study, analyzing the correlation between natural resource wealth and politics. It concluded that a resource curse did exist in petroleum-rich countries.



According to the study, three harmful (and largely unresolved) effects were evident in these countries:



Boosting authoritarian regimesIncreasing corruptionTriggering conflict in low- and middle-income nations



The study cited the use of the term resource curse in countries in Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, and the former Soviet Union.



This brings out the importance of diversification. If a country is too dependent on one or two resources, it can have severe and negative effects to its economy.






Countries with more diversified economies tend to weather global economic cycles better than countries with concentrated economies.


   Real-World Examples of the Resource Curse  
  Angola  

Located on the west coast of Southern Africa, Angola is home to some 34 million citizens. Its economy, however, is heavily dependent on commodities—particularly oil and gas resources. According to the International Trade Administration, roughly 75% of Angola's national revenues come from the oil and gas sector.



Angola’s economy, though, is extremely vulnerable to any large or sustained decline in the price of oil, since virtually all of the nation’s wealth is reliant on this one sector. In this sense, Angola may have been cursed by its large oil reserves.


  Saudi Arabia  

Another country that relies heavily on selling oil to other nations is Saudi Arabia. The value of the kingdom's oil exports exceeded $202.1 billion in 2021. But unlike Angola, Saudi Arabia took steps to steadily diversify its economy and move away from its resource curse.



Saudi Arabia succeeded in increasing its exports of various petroleum-related manufactured goods but these lie further up along the value chain. In doing so, the nation reduced its reliance on crude oil and take steps toward developing its economy, making it less vulnerable to the resource curse.



Some of the most notable industries that are flourishing include:



Financial: The Financial Sector Development Program was launched in 2017. Its aim was to boost the country's private sector, develop a capital market, and enhance financial planning.
Travel, Tourism, and Entertainment: The primary goal is to make the kingdom a major destination for tourists. The kingdom also aims to boost household spending when it comes to entertainment and leisure, notably through the new construction of movie theaters and a stake in Live Nation.
What Is a Restatement?  

A restatement is an act of revising one or more of a company’s previous financial statements to correct an error. Restatements are necessary when it is determined that a previous statement contained a "material" inaccuracy. This can result from accounting mistakes, noncompliance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), fraud, misrepresentation, or a simple clerical error. 





Key Takeaways

A restatement is a revision of one or more of a company’s previous financial statements to correct an error.Accountants are responsible for deciding whether a past error is “material” enough to warrant a restatement.An error can be considered material if the incorrect information would lead those receiving the statements to come to inaccurate conclusions.The FASB requires companies to issue a restatement to correct previously recorded errors.A reclassification involves correcting the classification of an entry.


   Understanding Restatements  

Company management and independent auditors are responsible for ensuring that quarterly and annual financial statements accurately reflect the financial condition of a firm. Sometimes, previous statements need to be amended. At times, these mistakes will be spotted by internal auditors. On other occasions, it might be a third party, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), that spots them.



The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) requires companies to issue a restatement to correct previous errors. Accountants are responsible for deciding whether a past error is “material” enough to warrant a restatement.



Material is a loose term that is not accompanied by specific percentage guidelines and so forth. As a general rule of thumb, an error can be considered material if the incorrect information would lead those receiving the statements to come to inaccurate conclusions as part of a standard analysis.



If an issue or error is found that affects part of a financial document or the document as a whole, a restatement will likely be required. Additionally, if certain key information about the original statement is received after the first statement was released, a restatement may be issued to adjust the financials based on the discoveries.


   The Dangers of Restatements  

Many restatements are the result of innocent mistakes and basic misinterpretation. However, some can raise red flags, highlighting potential fraud or incompetence. Over-reporting a company’s gains can be very misleading. It can lead investors to believe the company is in a stronger financial position than is actually the case. Based on the inaccurate information, investors may perform actions, in regards to the previously made investments, that otherwise would not have been made.






Public companies must file SEC Form 8-K to alert the investment community of material changes, as well as reissue corrected financial statements.﻿﻿



Negative restatements are regularly frowned on, shaking investor confidence and causing share prices to decline. They can also lead to fines: Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) was ordered to pay a $16 million civil penalty after internal auditors discovered errors in several of its previous financial statements. In 2015, the car rental company disclosed that restatements would weigh on profits for 2011, 2012, and 2013.


   Real-Life Example of a Restatement  

In February 2019, Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP) revealed it would restate its financial statements for fiscal years (FY) 2016 and 2017 after auditors discovered accounting blunders for income taxes related to deferred tax liabilities (DTL).



In a filing with regulators, the beer maker blamed the errors on its acquisition of a remaining 58 percent stake in MillerCoors in 2016. Understating deferred tax liability (DTL) and income tax expense boosted net profits by nearly $400 million in 2016. Overall, the company said it understated the value of the taxes owed but not yet paid on its balance sheet by $248m, and overstated its total equity by the same amount.



The finding did not inspire much confidence in Molson Coors Brewing’s accounting practices, as reflected by the sharp subsequent markdown in the company’s share price.


   Restatement Requirements  

When a publicly traded company determines it needs to amend its financial statements, it must file SEC Form 8-K within four days to notify investors of non-reliance on previously issued financial statements. It also needs to file amended 10-Q forms for the affected quarters and possibly amended 10-Ks, depending on how many accounting periods are affected by the erroneous data.



Companies should also provide a breakdown of how past errors occurred, how they were corrected, and whether there will likely be any future ramifications in their latest financial statements. These comments usually appear in the footnotes.


   Special Considerations  

When companies issue restatements, investors are advised to ascertain to the best of their abilities the seriousness of the error reported. How much of an impact is it likely to have and, more importantly, was it an innocent mistake, or something that appears to be more sinister? Look for indications from management on how it plans to stop similar mistakes from happening in the future.



It is also worth remembering that changes in certain financial estimates are not required, as these are based on anticipated events and not ones that have already occurred. These changes must only be reported on the next financial statement after the change is made and are not applied retroactively.


   Restatement FAQs  
  What Is the Difference Between Reclassification and Restatement?  

A restatement is the restatement of a revised financial statement. The restatement is purposed to correct what was previously reported erroneously. A reclassification involves correcting the classification of a transaction or entry, moving it from one ledger to another. For example, one could reclassify an entry from a current asset to a long-term asset.


  What Is the Difference Between Revision and Restatement?  

A revision is the correction of a reported amount in subsequent financial statements. However, the previously reported financial statement need not be reissued. With a restatement, on the other hand, the error must be material, prompting a revision and the issuance of a corrected financial statement.


  What Is the Restatement of Torts?  

The Restatement of Torts is a resource published by the American Law Institute (ALI) explaining the law as it pertains to certain situations, specifically involving torts. There are two Restatement of Torts: Restatement of the Law Second, Torts, and Restatement of the Law Third, Torts, which is the most recent published version.


  What Is the Restatement of Contracts?  

The Restatement of Contracts is a resource published by the American Law Institute (ALI) explaining the law as it pertains to contracts. In other words, they help courts clarify and interpret contract law.


   The Bottom Line  

When financial reports contain material inaccuracies, companies must correct the accounting error and reissue a corrected version of the financial statement. The error could have resulted from oversight, simple mistakes, or something more sinister, such as fraud. Despite the underlying reason, errors can cause those examining the statements to make decisions based on inaccurate data.
What Is Restricted Cash?  

Restricted cash, in contrast to unrestricted cash, is not freely available for a company to spend or invest. Restricted cash refers to money that is held for a specific purpose and thus not available to the company for immediate or general business use.



Restricted cash appears as a separate item from the cash and cash equivalents listing on a company's balance sheet. The reason for the cash being restricted is usually disclosed in the accompanying notes to the financial statements. Cash can be restricted for a number of reasons, including debt reduction and capital investments.





Key Takeaways

Restricted cash, in contrast to unrestricted cash, is not freely available for a company to spend or invest.Restricted cash refers to money that is held for a specific purpose, meaning it's not available for immediate or general business use.Restricted cash appears separately from cash on the balance sheet, while its purpose is disclosed in the financial statement footnotes.Restricted cash can be used as collateral for a loan or for capital expenditures such as a factory upgrade or equipment purchase.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Restricted Cash  

Restricted cash is held aside by companies and is earmarked for a specific purpose. Restricted cash could be set aside for a particular purchase or to repay a loan or debt. Cash that has been deemed restricted cannot be used for other purposes.



Restricted cash is classified as either a current asset, which is used up within one year, or a non-current asset, which are long-term assets. As a result, if the restricted cash is expected to be used in the short-term, it is classified as a current asset. If it is not expected to be used within a one-year time frame, it is classified as a non-current asset. Restricted cash typically appears on a company's balance sheet as either "other restricted cash" or as "other assets."


   Special Considerations  

There are a number of variables to the handling of restricted cash. For example, it may or may not be held in a separate bank account designated for the purpose for which the cash is restricted. Regardless of whether the cash is held in a special bank account or not, restricted cash is still included in a company's financial statements as a cash asset.



In the event that the restricted cash is not spent as intended, it may then become unrestricted cash that a company can transfer to a general cash account or spend for general business purposes. For example, a company may hold restricted cash for the purpose of making a large capital expenditure, such as a factory upgrade, but later decide against making the expenditure. The cash designated as restricted for that purpose is then freed up for the company to spend or invest elsewhere.


   Examples of Restricted Cash  

Although there are various reasons companies can restrict a portion of their cash, below are two of the most frequent uses for restricted cash.


  Capital Expenditures  

Companies often hold restricted cash for capital expenditures or as part of an agreement with a third party. Companies also frequently set aside cash designated as restricted in planning for a major investment expenditure, such as a new building.


  Loan or Debt Payments  

Lenders sometimes require a company to hold restricted cash as partial collateral against a loan or line of credit. A bank or other lender may require the company to set up a designated restricted cash account in which the company must maintain a minimum balance, sometimes referred to as a compensating balance, equal to a specified percentage of the credit extended by the bank. This is a fairly common practice in situations in which a bank grants a business loan to the owner of a new small business.
What Is Restricted Stock?  

Restricted stock refers to unregistered shares of ownership in a corporation that are issued to corporate affiliates, such as executives and directors. Restricted stock is non-transferable and must be traded in compliance with special Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations.



The restrictions are intended to deter premature selling that might adversely affect the company. Restricted stock typically becomes available for sale under a graded vesting schedule that lasts several years. Restricted stock is also referred to as "letter stock" and "section 1244 stock."





Key Takeaways

Restricted stock is a form of executive compensation where non-transferable shares are issued to employees that come with conditions on the timing of the sale.The restrictions include a vesting period that may last several years, on the condition that the employee will continue working at the company for a number of years or until a particular company milestone is met.The use of restricted stock is most common in established companies that want to motivate employees by giving them a share of the equity.







Types Of Shares: Authorized, Outstanding, Float And Restricted Shares


   How Restricted Stock Works  

Restricted shares provide an employee with a stake in their company, but they have no tangible value before they vest. Vesting gives employees rights to employer-provided assets over time, giving the employees an incentive to perform well and remain with a company. The vesting schedule set up by a company determines when employees acquire full ownership of the asset (in this case, restricted stock units). The restricted stock units are assigned a fair market value at the time of their vesting.



Restricted stock became more popular in the mid-2000s as companies were required to expense stock option grants. Restricted stock is often used as a form of employee compensation, in which case, it typically becomes transferrable upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, such as continued employment for a period of time or the achievement of particular product-development milestones, earnings per share (EPS) goals, or other financial targets.



Insiders are given restricted stock after merger and acquisition activity, underwriting activity, and affiliate ownership in order to prevent premature selling that might adversely affect the company. An executive may have to forfeit restricted stock if he leaves the company, fails to meet corporate or personal performance goals, or runs afoul of SEC trading restrictions. The SEC regulations that govern the trading of restricted stock are outlined under SEC Rule 144, which describes the registration and public trading of restricted stock and the limits on holding periods and volume.﻿﻿






An executive may have to give up restricted stock should they leave the company, miss certain pre-specified performance targets, or get in trouble with the Securities and Exchange Commission.



These shares may also come with a double-trigger provision. That means that an employee's shares become unrestricted if the company is acquired by another and the employee is fired in the restructuring that follows.


   Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) vs. Restricted Stock Awards  

Two variations on restricted stock are restricted stock units (RSUs) and restricted stock awards. A restricted stock unit is a promise made to an employee by an employer to grant a given number of shares of the company's stock to the employee at a predetermined time in the future. Since RSUs are not actually stocks, but only a right to the promised stock, they carry no voting rights. An RSU must be exercised in order to receive the stock. An RSU that is converted to a stock carries the standard voting rights for the class of stock issued.



A restricted stock award is similar to an RSU in a number of ways, except for the fact that the award also comes with voting rights. This is because the employee owns the stock immediately once it is awarded. Generally, an RSU represents stock, but in some cases, an employee can elect to receive the cash value of the RSU in lieu of a stock award. This is not the case for restricted stock awards, which cannot be redeemed for cash.


   Taxation of Restricted Stock  

The taxation of restricted stock is complex and is governed by Section 1244 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). Restricted stockholders pay tax on the capital gain or loss represented by the difference between the stock’s price on the date it vests and the date it is sold. In addition, restricted stock is taxable as ordinary income in the year it vests. This is the opposite of stock options, which are taxed when the employee exercises their option, not when they are vested.﻿﻿



The amount of restricted stock that must be declared as income is the stock’s fair market value on the vesting date minus its original exercise price. However, the restricted stockholder may do a Section 83(b) election, which lets them use the price on the grant date, not the vesting date, for the purposes of calculating ordinary income tax. The tax bill must be paid sooner in this case, but it may be substantially lower if the stock appreciates between the grant date and the vesting date. The risk of taking this election is that if the restricted stockholder leaves the company before the shares vest, the shares are forfeited, and taxes already paid are non-refundable.
What Is a Restricted Stock Unit (RSU)?  

A restricted stock unit (RSU) is an award of stock shares, usually given as a form of employee compensation. The recipient must meet certain conditions before the restricted stock units are transferred to the owner.



Restricted stock units are issued to employees through a vesting plan and distribution schedule after they achieve required performance milestones or upon remaining with their employer for a particular length of time.



Restricted stock units give employees interest in their employer's equity but have no tangible value until they are vested. The RSUs are assigned a fair market value (FMV) when they vest. Restricted stock units are considered income once vested, and a portion of the shares is withheld to pay income taxes. The employee then receives the remaining shares and has the right to sell them.





Key Takeaways

Restricted stock units are a form of stock-based employee compensation.RSUs are restricted during a vesting period that may last several years, during which time they cannot be sold.Once they are vested, RSUs can be sold or kept like any other shares of company stock.Unlike stock options or warrants, RSUs always have some value based on the underlying shares.For tax purposes, the entire value of vested RSUs must be included as ordinary income in the year of vesting.












Michela Buttignol / Investopedia


   Understanding Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)  

Restricted stock gained popularity as a form of employee compensation as an alternative to stock options after the accounting scandals of the mid-2000s involving companies like Enron and WorldCom. At the end of 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a statement requiring companies to book an accounting expense for stock options issued. This action leveled the playing field among equity types.



Given those scandals, companies began to consider other types of stock awards for attracting and retaining talent. RSUs, which had usually been reserved for higher levels of management, became more common.



The median number of stock options granted individually by Fortune 1000 companies dropped by 40% between 2003 and 2005. The median number of RSU awards rose by nearly 41% in the same period.






In certain instances vesting may be permitted to continue if an employee becomes disabled or retired.


   Special Considerations  

RSUs are treated differently for tax purposes than other forms of stock options. That is, the entire value of an employee's vested stock is counted as ordinary income in the year of vesting.



In order to declare the amount, an employee must subtract the original purchase of the stock or its exercise price from the FMV on the date it becomes fully vested. This difference is then declared as ordinary income by the taxpayer.



If the stock is sold at a later date (and not on the exercise date), the difference between the sale price and FMV is declared as either a capital gain or loss on the date of vesting.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of RSUs  
  Advantages  

RSUs provide an incentive for employees to stay with a company for the long term and help it perform well so that their shares increase in value. If an employee decides to hold their shares until they receive the full vested allocation and the company's stock rises, the employee receives the capital gain minus the value of the shares withheld for income taxes and the amount due in capital gains taxes.



Administration costs are minimal for employers as there aren't actual shares to track and record. RSUs also allow a company to defer issuing shares until the vesting schedule is complete, which helps delay the dilution of its shares.


  Disadvantages  

RSUs don't provide dividends before they vest. But an employer may pay dividend equivalents that can be moved into an escrow account to help offset withholding taxes, or be reinvested through the purchase of additional shares. The taxation of restricted stocks is governed by Section 1244 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC).



Restricted stock is included in gross income for tax purposes and is recognized on the date when the stocks become transferrable. This is also known as the vesting date.



RSUs aren't eligible for the IRC 83(b) Election, which allows an employee to pay tax before vesting, as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) doesn't consider them to be tangible property.



RSUs don't have voting rights until actual shares get issued to an employee at vesting. If an employee leaves before the conclusion of their vesting schedule, they forfeit the remaining shares to the company. For instance, if an employee's vesting schedule consists of 5,000 RSUs over two years and he resigns after 12 months, he forfeits 2,500 RSUs.





Pros

Incentivize employees to stay with the company
Employees receive capital gain minus value of shares withheld for income taxes
Minimal administrative costs



Cons

Don't provide dividends
Aren't considered tangible property so employees can't pay tax before the vesting period
Don't come with voting rights





   Examples of RSUs  

Suppose Madeline receives a job offer. Because the company thinks Madeline's skill set is valuable and hopes she remains a long-term employee, it offers her 1,000 RSUs in addition to a salary and other benefits.



The company's stock is worth $10 per share, making the RSUs potentially worth an additional $10,000. To give Madeline an incentive to stay with the company and receive the 1,000 shares, it puts the RSUs on a five-year vesting schedule.



Madeline receives 200 shares after one year with the company, another 200 shares after the second year, and so on until she acquires all 1,000 shares at the end of the vesting period.



Depending on the company's stock performance, Madeline may receive more or less than $10,000.


  Real-World Example  

As a real-world example of what a company does to issue RSUs, take a look at the December 2017 SEC Form 4 filed by the electric vehicle company Tesla (TSLA). This form indicates that the company's chief accounting officer, Eric Branderiz, had received 4,808 restricted stock units and was converting them into common shares.












 SEC EDGAR



Source: SEC EDGAR




How Do Restricted Stock Units Work?
Restricted stock units are a type of compensation in which an employee receives shares of stock that are paid out over a period of years.Restricted stock units fluctuate in value over time. From a company’s perspective, restricted stock units can help employee retention by incentivizing employees to stay with the company long-term. For employees, restricted stock units are a stake in a company’s success and occasionally produce very substantial income.




What Is the Difference Between Restricted Stock Units and Stock Options?
Stock options provide employees with the right but not the obligation to acquire shares of the company at a specified price. If the share price rises the employee can acquire the shares and sell them at the higher market price.Restricted stock units are awarded outright on a set series of dates over several years. The employee then owns the shares and can sell or keep them.




Do Restricted Stock Units Carry Voting Rights?
Restricted stock units do not carry voting rights until they become vested.Once they are vested, the units are converted into common stock shares and carry all the usual rights of stock ownership.The same goes for dividends: restricted stock units do not pay dividends until they vest.
What Is a Restrictive Covenant?  

A restrictive covenant is a condition that restricts, limits, prohibits, or prevents the actions of someone named in an enforceable agreement. In bond obligations, restrictive covenants limit the amount issuers can pay in dividends to investors. Restrictive covenants are common in real estate deeds and leases, where they restrict how owners and tenants can use a property.



It's important to differentiate between the two main types of covenants: negative and positive. Negative covenants are actions you can't take, while positive covenants are actions you must take. For example, a negative covenant in real estate could prevent you from raising chickens on your property. On the other hand, a positive covenant could require you to mow your lawn.





Key Takeaways

Restrictive covenants are clauses that prevent, prohibit, restrict, or limit the actions of a person or entity named in a contract.Restrictive covenants are common in real estate transactions and apply to everything from the colors you can paint your house to how many tenants can live in a building.In bond obligations, restrictive covenants aim to minimize default risk by limiting the amount issuers pay in investor dividends.Restrictive covenants are enforceable, meaning they can lead to fines and even legal action if they aren't followed.Restrictive covenants were previously used to keep communities racially segregated, a practice that's now illegal.


   Understanding Restrictive Covenants  

As the name implies, a restrictive covenant is an agreement that restricts one of the parties in a contract from taking specific actions. For example, a restrictive covenant may limit how much public companies pay their shareholders in dividends. It may also place a cap on executive salaries. Failure to abide by restrictive covenants can result in fines and other penalties, including legal action.



Restrictive covenants are commonly used to prevent a bond issuer from issuing more debt until one or more series of bonds mature. The issuer may also be restricted from paying dividends above a certain amount to shareholders to minimize bondholders' default risk. That's because if more money is paid to shareholders, less is available to meet payment obligations to lenders.






The more negative covenants a bond issue has, the lower the interest rate will be on the debt because restrictive covenants make the bonds safer in the eyes of investors.



Restrictive covenants are also found in:



Employment contracts (e.g., non-compete, non-disclosure, and non-solicitation agreements)
Mergers and acquisitions (M&A) contracts
Loan documents
Real estate agreements


   Restrictive Covenants in Real Estate  

Restrictive covenants are common in real estate. They mandate owners and tenants to avoid or take specific actions intended to preserve the value and enjoyment of the adjoining land. Restrictive covenants are established in a deed or a separately recorded document called a declaration of restrictive covenants. Homeowner associations (HOAs) stipulate covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs) to safeguard property values in the community. Covenants are generally considered valid only if reasonable and of benefit to all the property owners within the community.






A Declaration of Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions (CC&Rs) is a legal document that outlines the rules for a planned community. If you buy a home in a planned community, you generally must become a member of the homeowner association and follow the CC&Rs.



Restrictive covenants can cover things such as:



Minimum setback linesMinimum home size (square footage)Number of bedroomsBuilding height, width, and placement on the propertyArchitectural guidelines (e.g., construction materials, styles, and colors)Fence height and typeProperty use (e.g., business and rental use)Types of animals allowed on the property (e.g., no livestock)Flagpole height and flag sizeSignage (e.g., for sale or political signs)LandscapingMaintenance (e.g., lawn mowing, tree trimming)OutbuildingsSwimming poolsThe number and type of vehicles allowed on the propertyThe number of people who can occupy the property



In general, covenants are unenforceable if they violate homeowners' rights, violate federal or state laws, or are applied inconsistently or arbitrarily.






If you're considering entering an agreement that has restrictive covenants, be sure you understand what you're getting into before signing on the dotted line.


   History of Restrictive Housing Covenants  

Historically, restrictive covenants were used in real estate deals to influence the demographics of many communities in the U.S. The restrictions kept certain populations out of specific neighborhoods, encouraging racial, ethnic, and cultural segregation.



It wasn't uncommon for real estate contracts to bar Black and Jewish Americans from buying properties. For example, covenants were used between the 1920s and 1940s in Washington State to keep underrepresented groups out of some Seattle-area neighborhoods. Black, Jewish, and Asian Americans were forced to look for housing elsewhere by forming their own segregated communities.






The Goodwin Company attached racially restrictive covenants to property it sold in Washington State from 1924 to 1938. The Goodwin property deeds stated that property could not be sold “to any person not of the White race; nor shall any person not of the White race be permitted to occupy any portion of said lot or lots or of any building thereon, except a domestic servant actually employed by a White occupant of such building.”



In 1948, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that these racially charged provisions were unconstitutional under the country's equal protection laws after hearing the case of Shelley v. Kraemer. The ruling came after Missouri's top court blocked the Shelleys, a Black family, from taking possession of the home they bought in 1945 in St. Louis. The Kraemers, a White family who lived nearby, sued to prevent the Shelleys from moving into the neighborhood, citing a restrictive covenant prohibiting people of color from occupying the property.






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, you can file a complaint with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).



Despite the ruling, racial deed restrictions remain on the books in nearly every state in the U.S. While the covenants are no longer enforceable, the offensive language still exists.




What Is the Fair Housing Act?
The Fair Housing Act is a federal law that protects people from discrimination when they rent or buy a home, get a mortgage, seek housing assistance, or partake in other housing-related activities. The Act prohibits discrimination in housing based on race, color, national origin, religion, sex (including gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, and sexual harassment), familial status, and disability. The Fair Housing Act is also known as Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968.




Who Enforces Restrictive Covenants?
If you live in a planned community, the homeowners association (HOA) and the individual lot owners have the right to enforce covenants. However, violations can become unenforceable through laches—the loss of a right through undue delay or failure to assert it. For example, say you build a fence that violates the restrictive covenants. If the HOA doesn't try to enforce it until several years later, they could lose their rights to enforce through laches—meaning, you get to keep your fence.




What Is a Restrictive Covenant Agreement in Real Estate?
A restrictive covenant in real estate mandates owners and tenants to avoid or take specific actions to preserve the value and enjoyment of the adjoining land. For example, restrictive covenants can prevent owners and tenants from making certain renovations, having pets, parking RVs in the driveway, or raising livestock. Covenants that pass from owner to owner are said to "run with the land."
What Is Restructuring?  

Restructuring is an action taken by a company to significantly modify the financial and operational aspects of the company, usually when the business is facing financial pressures. Restructuring is a type of corporate action taken that involves significantly modifying the debt, operations, or structure of a company as a way of limiting financial harm and improving the business.



When a company is having difficulties with making the payments on its debt, it will often consolidate and adjust the terms of the debt in a debt restructuring, creating a way to pay off bondholders. A company can also restructure its operations or structure by cutting costs, such as payroll, or reducing its size through the sale of assets.





Key Takeaways

Restructuring is when a company makes significant changes to its financial or operational structure, typically while under financial duress.Companies may also restructure when preparing for a sale, buyout, merger, change in overall goals, or transfer of ownership.Following a restructuring, the company should be left with smoother, more economically sound business operations.


   Understanding Restructuring  

There are numerous reasons why companies might restructure, including deteriorating financial fundamentals, poor earnings performance, lackluster revenue from sales, excessive debt, and the company is no longer competitive, or too much competition exists in the industry.



A company may restructure as a means of preparing for a sale, buyout, merger, change in overall goals, or transfer to a relative. For example, a company might choose to restructure after it fails to successfully launch a new product or service, which then leaves it in a position where it cannot generate enough revenue to cover payroll and its debt payments.



As a result, depending on agreement by shareholders and creditors, the company may sell its assets, restructure its financial arrangements, issue equity to reduce debt, or file for bankruptcy as the business maintains operations.


   Restructuring Process  

When a company restructures internally, the operations, processes, departments, or ownership may change, enabling the business to become more integrated and profitable. Financial and legal advisors are often hired for negotiating restructuring plans. Parts of the company may be sold to investors, and a new chief executive officer (CEO) may be hired to help implement the changes.



The results may include alterations in procedures, computer systems, networks, locations, and legal issues. Because positions may overlap, jobs may be eliminated, and employees laid off.






A company undertakes a restructuring to modify the financial or operational aspect of its business, usually when faced with a financial crisis.



Restructuring can be a tumultuous, painful process as the internal and external structure of a company is adjusted and jobs are cut. But once it is completed, restructuring should result in smoother, more economically sound business operations.



After employees adjust to the new environment, the company can be in a better position for achieving its goals through greater efficiency in production; however, not all corporate restructurings end well. Sometimes, a company may need to admit defeat and begin selling or liquidating assets to pay off its creditors before permanently closing.


   Special Considerations  

Restructuring costs can add up quickly for things such as reducing or eliminating product or service lines, canceling contracts, eliminating divisions, writing off assets, closing facilities, and relocating employees.



Entering a new market, adding products or services, training new employees, and buying property result in extra costs as well. New characteristics and amounts of debt often result, whether a business expands or contracts its operations.


   Real-World Example  

In late March 2019, Savers Inc. the largest for-profit thrift store chain in the United States reached a restructuring agreement that cut its debt load by 40% and saw it taken over by Ares Management Corp. and Crescent Capital Group LP.



The out-of-court restructuring, which was approved by the company's board of directors, includes refinancing a $700 million first-lien loan and lowering the retailer's interest costs. Under the deal, the company's existing term loan holders get paid in full, while senior noteholders swapped their debt for equity.




What Are the Different Types of Restructuring?
A business can restructure in many different ways. The different types of restructuring include legal restructuring, turnaround restructuring, cost restructuring, divestment, spin-off, repositioning restructuring, and mergers and acquisitions.




Does Restructuring Mean Layoffs?
Generally, when a company restructures, it lays off some of its employees. This is typically so because a restructuring involves downsizing, which can include closing some groups, merging others, and generally looking to become more efficient and cut costs.




How Many Times Can a Company Restructure?
There is no legal limit to how many times a company can restructure. A company can decide to change its operations as many times as it deems necessary in order to become more efficient and cut costs. That being said, restructuring is a complicated process that involves a lot of time and strategy, and so is not a process to be done lightly or often.
What is a Restructuring Charge?  

A restructuring charge is a one-time expense that a company pays when reorganizing its operations. Examples of one-time expenses include furloughing or laying off employees, closing manufacturing plants or shifting production to a new location. Companies undertake these moves in an effort to boost profitability, but first must take a one-off hit in the form of an upfront restructuring charge.





Key Takeaways

A restructuring charge is a one-time cost that a company pays when it reorganizes its business.It is a short-term expense the company undertakes with an eye toward boosting long-term profitability.Restructuring charges are usually harmless but can sometimes be manipulated by creative accountants.


   Understanding Restructuring Charge  

Companies restructure operations to improve efficiency and boost profitability over the long-term. Restructuring charges occur for a variety of reasons, including when a company makes an acquisition, sells a subsidiary, downsizes, implements new technology, relocates assets, decreases or consolidates debt, diversifies into a new market or writes off assets.



Whatever the reason, a restructuring is usually driven by a need for change in the organization or business model of a company. A company that chooses to restructure is often experiencing significant problems, so much so that it is prepared to stomach some additional costs to improve its fortunes. A restructuring charge will cost a company in the short-term, yet hopefully will save it money in the long run.



Restructuring fees are nonrecurring operating expenses that show up as a line item on the income statement and factor into net income. Because the charge is an unusual or infrequent expense, it is less likely to impact shareholders' stakes in the company. In other words, news of a restructuring charge is unlikely to significantly impact a company's share price.



To find out more details about a restructuring charge, investors should consult the footnote to the financial statements. Additional information might also be provided in the management discussion and analysis (MD&A) section of the financial statement.


   Example of Restructuring Charge  

Due to poor industry forecasts, Company A has decided to downsize operations. It lays off several employees who each receive severance checks. The severance cost associated with this structural change in the business is a restructuring charge.



In contrast, Company Z is flourishing and growing rapidly. The company decides to hire more employees to keep up with its expansion. The costs associated with hiring new staff, such as signing bonuses and acquiring more office space, are also classified as restructuring charges.


   Special Considerations  

A restructuring charge will be mentioned in financial analyses as decreasing a company's operating income and diluted earnings. Restructuring charges will often have a significant impact on a company's income statement as a result.



Net income may be manipulated by inflating the amount for a restructuring charge. The charge is purposely exaggerated in order to create an expense reserve that will be used to offset ongoing operating expenses. Creative accountants use the restructuring provision to get rid of losses through one-time charges and to clean out the books. 



In effect, a large restructuring charge is reported so the company can take a big hit to earnings in the current period in order to make future period earnings appear more profitable. Analysts closely scrutinize any restructuring charge that shows up on a company's income statement to see if a company may have charged a recurring expense to its restructuring account.
What Is a Resume?  

A resume is a formal document that a job applicant creates to itemize their qualifications for a position. A resume is usually accompanied by a customized cover letter in which the applicant expresses an interest in a specific job or company and draws attention to the most relevant specifics on the resume.



American job coaches insist that a resume should be only one or two pages in length. British job applicants traditionally are expected to produce a somewhat more detailed document, called a CV (curriculum vitae).





Key Takeaways

Nowadays, resumes are typically sent by email or as part of an online application.The traditional one- to two-page limit for a resume stands, but nothing prevents you from attaching a brief video introduction or other illustration if it is relevant and enhances your presentation.It's smart to rewrite your resume to tailor it to a specific job you're seeking.


   Understanding a Resume  

A resume is almost always required for applicants to office jobs. They are the first step taken by corporate recruiters and hiring managers to identify candidates who might be invited to interview for a position.



Successful resumes highlight specific accomplishments applicants have achieved in former positions, such as cutting costs, transcending sales goals, increasing profits, and building out teams. 



There are many formats for resumes, with many variations for particular professions such as investment banking and the fashion trade.



Whatever the format, most resumes include a brief summary of skills and experience, followed by a bullet list of previous jobs in reverse chronological order and a list of degrees earned. A final section might be added to highlight specific skills, such as fluency in a foreign language, knowledge of computer languages, professionally useful hobbies, professional affiliations, and any honors achieved.



Brevity, a clean layout, and succinct language all are prized. People who have to sort through hundreds of resumes have short attention spans.


   The Resume Heading  

The heading on the resume should include not only your name, email address, and mobile phone number but also your address on LinkedIn or another professional community and the address of your website or blog if you have one.



Be aware that any hiring manager will, as a matter of course, enter your name in the Google search field. Do a search on your own and see if you can optimize your own results or at least decently bury any youthful faux pas.


   Resume Trouble Spots  

Recruiters examine job histories for significant employment gaps or a pattern of job-hopping. Be prepared to explain either, whether in a cover letter or during an interview. An applicant with a history of short-lived jobs might consider omitting a few of the oldest ones, especially if they aren't relevant to the current job opening.



For example, if you spent years working behind a counter in food service, then went back to school to earn physical therapy credentials, forget some of those early jobs in food service. Flesh out the sections that report your skills, training, and experience in the field that's now your specialty. You can mention those other jobs in the interview while explaining what a reliable professional you are.



The past can be particularly dangerous for applicants to new technology companies seeking to assemble cutting-edge teams. Legacy skills may imply obsolescence. The most powerful resumes underline how an applicant can thrive in the job that's open right now.


   Changing Times for Resumes  

It goes without saying that resumes these days are delivered as email attachments or uploaded for an online application, not printed out and mailed.



Although the two-page maximum still stands, many applicants use the web to its full potential when it comes to attachments. Video introductions, charts, graphs, and other illustrations can make you stand out, so long as they're relevant and slickly made.


   What You Should Not Put on a Resume  

There is so much talk about what should be in your resume, but there are also some things that ought to be kept off the page. First, and most importantly, are your age, marital status, and the number of children you may have. While a potential employer might be able to deduce this information via a web search, it isn't relevant for a job application.



In addition, do not list your current salary, religion, political beliefs, or any personal details (like your hobbies), unless that information is required for the job in question.




What Are Common Resume Mistakes?
Common resume mistakes include typos, vague details without a lack of specifics, either being too long in detail or too short, grammatical errors, poor verb usage, adding impertinent information, and not including enough information on skills.




Should I Create More Than One Resume?
This depends on whether you are applying for different types of jobs. For example, if you are applying for an office manager job, you should tailor your resume to outline your leadership and organizational skills. But you might also be interested in applying for a retail position, so creating a second resume that instead highlights any retail experience that you have will put you in a better position to get that job.




What If I Do Not Have Any Work Experience?
You can still create a strong resume even if you do not have any professional work experience. Your resume can include any volunteer work you have done and the responsibilities you had during this time. If you are still in school, you can also list any academic organizations you are a part of and any offices and responsibilities you're holding.


   The Bottom Line  

Your resume is what gets you the job interview. It's the first step in getting hired. So you want to spend plenty of time making sure it's professional, represents who you are, is void of mistakes, does not contain superfluous information, and highlights why you would be the best candidate for the job.



Your resume should be recent and contain only the most important information; remove anything else. If you've been working for two decades, employers aren't interested in your high school GPA or any internships you had during college. Keep it concise, interesting, and impressive, and you'll be sure to get a response from companies.
What Is Retail Banking?  

Retail banking, also known as consumer banking or personal banking, is banking that provides financial services to individual consumers rather than businesses. Retail banking is a way for individual consumers to manage their money, have access to credit, and deposit their funds in a secure manner.



Services offered by retail banks include checking and savings accounts, mortgages, personal loans, credit cards, and certificates of deposit (CDs).





Key Takeaways


Retail banking provides financial services to individual consumers rather than large institutions.
Services offered include savings and checking accounts, mortgages, personal loans, debit or credit cards, certificates of deposit (CDs), and more.
Retail banks can be local community banks or the divisions of large commercial banks.
Today, many fintech companies can provide all the same services as retail banks through internet platforms and smartphone apps.
While retail banking services are aimed at individuals in the general public, corporate banking services are offered only to small or large companies and corporate bodies.



   How Does Retail Banking Work?  

Many financial services companies aim to be the one-stop-shop retail banking destination to their individual consumers. Consumers expect a range of basic services from retail banks, such as checking accounts, savings accounts, personal loans, lines of credit, mortgages, debit cards, credit cards, and CDs.



Most consumers use local branch banking services, which provide onsite customer service for all of a retail customer's banking needs. Through local branch locations, financial representatives provide customer service and financial advice. Financial representatives are also the lead contact for underwriting applications related to credit-approved products.



Though a consumer may not use all these retail banking services, the primary service is a checking and savings account to deposit money. This is a common, secure way for individuals to store their cash.



Furthermore, it allows them the ability to earn interest on their money. Most savings accounts offer rates based on the fed funds rate. Checking and savings accounts also come with a debit card to allow for ease of withdrawal of funds and payment for goods and services.



Retail banks are also an important source of credit for individuals. They offer consumers credit to purchase big-ticket items such as homes and cars. This extension of credit can take the form of mortgages, auto loans, or credit cards and is an important facet of the economy as it provides liquidity to ordinary consumers, which helps the economy grow.






One of the biggest trends in retail banking today is the shift to mobile and online banking. Specifically, banks are adding more tools and features, such as the ability to put temporary holds on cards, view recurring charges, or scan a fingerprint to log into an account, to retain their existing customers and attract new ones.


   How a Retail Bank Generates Income  

A retail bank stores the cash deposits of its retail clients. It then uses these deposits to make loans to other clients. The Federal Reserve formerly required that all banks keep 10% of their demand and checking deposits in-house overnight—this was changed to 0% in March 2020.



This is known as the reserve requirement and is seen as a safety and liquidity measure. This means that the remainder of the deposit on hand is allowed to be lent out. The banks charge interest rates on these loans at a higher rate than they pay on customer deposits, which is how banks earn income.



In the banking industry, consumers also rely on the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) to insure their bank deposits. As of March 31, 2023, the FDIC insured 4,672 institutions, commercial banks and savings banks. The total amount of assets the FDIC insured was $23.72 trillion and the total amount of loans and leases insured was $12.212 trillion.


   Types of Retail Banks  

Retail banks come in a variety of types and sizes, from local community banks, which are small and locally run to the retail banking services of large, global corporate banks such as JPMorgan Chase and Citibank.



As of March 31, 2023, the top five largest U.S. commercial banks by assets were:



JPMorgan ChaseBank of AmericaCitibankWells FargoU.S. Bank



All these banks offer retail banking services, which form a large portion of their revenue. Credit unions are another type of retail bank that works as a non-profit cooperative where members pool their assets to be able to provide loans and other financial services to other members.



Credit unions typically provide better interest rates for their members because they aren't corporate entities seeking profits and they don't have to pay corporate taxes on any earnings.


   Expanded Services in Retail Banking  

Banks are adding to their product offerings to provide a greater range of services for their retail clients. In addition to basic retail banking accounts and customer service from local branch financial representatives, banks have started offering teams of financial advisors with broadened product offerings, investment services such as wealth management, brokerage accounts, private banking, and retirement planning.



In the 21st century, a movement toward internet banking has also broadly expanded the offerings for retail banking customers. Several banks now provide online services to customers solely through the internet and mobile applications, limiting the number of times a customer needs to go to a local branch to do business.



In addition to traditional banks offering online services, many new fintech companies have blossomed, offering similar services with more ease, and often at better prices, as they don't incur the expense of needing traditional brick-and-mortar bank branches. Examples of these banks include N26, Monzo, and Chime.





Note

A Chase survey released in early 2023 found that consumers overwhelmingly want to manage their banking activities in one place, and prefer using their mobile apps to do this. Eighty-seven percent of survey respondents said they use their banking app at least once a month or more. They monitor account balances and deposit checks through their smartphone, and may even apply for a mortgage that way.


   Retail Banking vs. Corporate Banking  

While retail banking services are provided to individuals in the general public, corporate banking services are only offered to companies and corporate bodies. The scope of the products and services available is also different: Retail banking is customer-oriented and corporate banking is business-oriented.



The financial worth of transactions is comparably higher in corporate banking than in retail banking. The source of profit is also different: the difference between the margin of interest of borrowers and lenders is the main source of profit in retail banking, while corporate banking's source of profit is the interest and fees charged on the services provided.



Corporate banks provide businesses with the following services:



Loans and other credit productsTreasury and cash management servicesEquipment lendingCommercial real estateTrade financeEmployer services



Some corporate banks also have investment banking arms that offer related services to their corporate clients, such as asset management and securities underwriters.




What Are Some Features of Retail Banking?
Retail banking is intended to help consumers manage their money by giving them access to basic banking services, a source of credit, and financial advice. The general public can access a variety of services through a retail bank, including checking and savings accounts, mortgages, credit cards, foreign currency and remittance services, and automobile financing.




What Is an Example of a Retail Bank?
U.S. Bank and Bank of America are two examples of retail banks because they provide consumer banking products like checking and savings accounts, mortgages, personal loans, credit cards, and certificates of deposit (CDs).




What Is the Difference Between Commercial Banking and Retail Banking?
Retail banking offers deposit, access, and lending services to individuals. Commercial banking is another name for corporate banking, which offers banking services to businesses, governments, and other institutions. While retail banking offers its services to people for personal use, commercial banking serves institutions.


   The Bottom Line  

Retail banks offer a variety of products and services to retail customers. When people think about a bank, they usually think about a retail bank. In every city across the country, there are bank branches that make banking services accessible to the general public.



The most common services that retail banks offer are checking and savings accounts, mortgages, personal loans, credit cards, and certificates of deposit (CDs).
What Is a Retail Investor?  

A retail investor, also known as an individual investor, is a non-professional investor who buys and sells securities or funds that contain a basket of securities such as mutual funds and exchange traded funds (ETFs).



Retail investors execute their trades through traditional or online brokerage firms or other types of investment accounts. Retail investors purchase securities for their own personal accounts and often trade in dramatically smaller amounts as compared to institutional investors. An institutional investor is an umbrella term for larger-scale investments by professional portfolio and fund managers who might manage a mutual fund or pension fund.





Key Takeaways

Retail investors are non-professional market participants who generally invest smaller amounts than larger, institutional investors.Due to their smaller trades, retail investors may pay higher fees and commissions, although some online brokers offer no-fee trading.The retail investment market is enormous since it includes retirement accounts, brokerage firms, online trading, and robo-advisors.


   Understanding Retail Investors  

Retail investors usually buy and sell trades in the equity and bond markets and tend to invest much smaller amounts than large institutional investors. However, wealthier retail investors can now access alternative investment classes like private equity and hedge funds. Because of their small purchasing power, most retail investors may have to pay higher fees or commissions for their trades, although many brokers have eliminated fees for online trades.



The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is charged with protecting retail investors to ensure the markets function in a fair and orderly manner. The SEC helps retail investors by providing education and the enforcement of regulations to ensure people remain confident and comfortable investing in the markets.



Retail investors have a significant impact on market sentiment, which represents the overall tone in the financial markets. Predictors of investor sentiment include mutual fund flows, the first-day performance of IPOs, and survey data from the American Association of Individual Investors, which questions retail investors about their expectations for the market. Sentiment is also tracked by stockbrokers like TD Ameritrade and E*TRADE.


   Criticisms of Retail Investors  

Critics say smaller investors do not have the knowledge, discipline, or expertise to research their investments. An investor who makes small size trades is sometimes pejoratively known as a piker.



As a result, they undermine the financial markets’ role in allocating resources efficiently; and through crowded trades, cause panic selling. These unsophisticated investors are said to be vulnerable to behavioral biases and may underestimate the power of the masses that drive the market.


   The Retail Investment Market  

The retail investment market in the United States is significant in size and scope, and according to the SEC, in 2020, "American households own $29 trillion worth of equities—more than 58% of the U.S. equity market—either directly or indirectly through mutual funds, retirement accounts, and other investments."﻿﻿



"Forty-three million U.S. households hold a retirement or brokerage account. Fifty-six million U.S. households (44% of all households) own at least one U.S. mutual fund" as of 2018.﻿﻿ 



And while Americans gravitated to savings accounts and passive investing in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, the number of households that own stocks has risen since. According to the Federal Reserve’s survey of consumer finances, about 53% of families owned stocks, and 70% of upper-middle-income families owned stocks in 2019.﻿﻿



Unlike institutional traders, retail traders are more likely to invest in stocks of smaller companies because they can have lower price points, allowing them to buy many different securities in an adequate number of shares to achieve a diversified portfolio.



Retail investors now have access to more financial information, investment education, and trading tools than ever before. Brokerage fees have decreased, and mobile trading has enabled investors to actively manage their portfolios from their smartphones or other mobile devices. A huge range of retail funds and brokers have modest minimum investment amounts or minimum deposits of a few hundred dollars, and some ETFs and robo-advisors don’t require any. Nevertheless, as democratized as investing becomes, it is still all about doing your homework.


   Institutional Investors  

Institutional investors are the big players in the market who move big money. Examples of institutional investors include:



Pension funds
Mutual funds
Money managers
Insurance companies
Investment banks
Commercial trusts
Endowment funds for a university or college
Hedge funds
Private equity firms or investors



Institutional investors account for a significant amount of the trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). They move large blocks of shares and have a tremendous influence on the stock market's movements. Because they are considered sophisticated investors who are knowledgeable and, therefore, less likely to make uneducated investments, institutional investors are subject to fewer of the protective regulations that the SEC provides to your average, everyday investor.



The money that institutional investors use is not actually money that the institutions own themselves. Institutional investors generally invest for other people. If you have a pension plan at work, a mutual fund, or any kind of insurance, you are actually benefiting from the expertise of institutional investors.
What Is the Retail Price Index (RPI)?  

The Retail Price Index (RPI) is one of two measures of consumer inflation produced by the United Kingdom's Office for National Statistics (ONS). It measures certain types of cost escalation but is not considered the official inflation statistic in the U.K. The RPI was introduced in 1947 and implemented in 1956.





Key Takeaways

The Retail Price Index (RPI) is calculated and published by the Office of National Statistics in the United Kingdom.The RPI is not considered the official U.K. inflation rate statistic.The RPI is used for cost escalation in government transfer payments and wage contract negotiation.


   Retail Price Index (RPI) and Inflation  

First calculated in June 1947, the RPI was the principal measure of inflation in the U.K. and replaced the previous Cost of Living Index. The Retail Price Index (RPI) was replaced by the Consumer Prices Index (CPI) as the primary measure of inflation in 2003 to set the inflation target for the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee. In 2013, the Office of National Statistics reclassified the RPI as "not a national statistic" but continues to include it with other indexes on its website.






The rate of inflation is the change in prices for goods and services over time.


   Using the RPI  

Although the RPI is not an official statistic, it is used to determine:



cost of living and wage escalation
tax allowances on index-linked securities
social housing rent increases
wage rates during employment negotiations


   RPI vs. CPI  

The RPI tracks changes in the cost of a fixed basket of goods over time, and it is produced by combining about 180,000 price quotes for around 700 representative items. The CPI began in 1996 as the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices (HICP). This index was developed to unite statistics for measuring all EU economies following the Economic and Monetary Union in 1992.



Since the CPI was introduced, the measurement of 12-month inflation in the U.K. has generally been higher when measured by the RPI, as compared to the CPI. The difference arises because the RPI includes several items excluded in the CPI, and vice versa. Secondly, the two indicators measure price change for different target populations, and both use different formulas, leading to a difference known as the "formula effect."




Why Is the RPI Considered a Legacy Measurement?
Over time, the RPI calculation has not been updated or corrected to create a correct measure of inflation. The U.K. Statistics Authority considers RPI to be “a legacy measure” for this reason and publishes it only because it is required to do so.




What Is Included in the CPI?
The CPI includes all spending by private and institutional households and foreign nationals when visiting the United Kingdom.




What Is an Example of the RPI vs. CPI?
Due to the varying inputs to both indexes, the inflation rate calculations differ significantly. In May 2023, the CPI was 8.7%, and the RPI was 11.4%. The ONS in the U.K. lists the RPI as "not a national statistic."


   The Bottom Line  

The Retail Price Index (RPI) is calculated and published by the Office of National Statistics in the United Kingdom. The Consumer Prices Index (CPI) replaced the RPI in 2003 as the statistical measure of inflation in the U.K. The RPI is considered a legacy measure since its formula is no longer updated or recalculated but continues to be included on the ONS website.
What Are Retail Sales?  

Retail sales are an economic metric that tracks consumer demand for finished goods. This figure is a very important data set as it is a key monthly market-moving event. Retail sales are reported each month by the U.S. Census Bureau and indicate the direction of the economy. It acts as a key economic barometer and whether inflationary pressures exist. Retail sales are measured by durable and non-durable goods purchased over a defined period of time. Sales for the report are derived from 13 types of retailers from food service to retail stores.





Key Takeaways

Retail sales represent a key macroeconomic metric that tracks consumer demand for finished goods.Consumer purchases of durable and non-durable goods are compiled in a report.The retail sales report helps analysts and investors gauge the health of the economy and any inflationary pressures that may exist.Data is gathered by the U.S. Census Bureau and includes sales from 13 types of food service and retail stores.An accurate measure of retail sales is vital for gauging the economic health of the U.S. because consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of the gross domestic product.


   Understanding Retail Sales  

Retail sales are a good indicator of the pulse of the economy and its projected path toward expansion or contraction. Retail sales figures are reported by all food service and retail stores and compiled by the U.S. Census Bureau. The measurement is typically based on data sampling and is used to model the patterns for the entire country.



As a leading macroeconomic indicator, healthy retail sales figures typically elicit positive movements in equity markets. Higher sales are good news for shareholders of retail companies because it means higher earnings. Bondholders, on the other hand, are quite ambivalent towards this metric. A booming economy is good for all, but lower retail sales figures and a contracting economy would translate to a decrease in inflation. This may cause investors to gravitate toward bonds, eventually leading to higher bond prices.



Retail sales capture in-store sales, as well as catalog and other out-of-store sales of both durable (last for more than three years) and non-durable goods (those with a three-year or shorter life span).



These are broken down into a number of different categories including (but not limited to):



Clothing and clothing accessories storesPharmacies and drug storesFood and beverage storesElectronics and appliance storesFurniture storesGasoline stationsNew car dealers



As a broad economic indicator, the retail sales report is one of the timeliest reports because it provides data that is only a few weeks old. Individual retail companies often provide their own sales figures at the same time every month, and their stocks can experience volatility as investors process the data.



Major changes in price can affect retail sales figures. These fluctuations in prices are seen primarily in two retail sales categories: food retailers and gas stations. Large increases in food and energy prices can cause sales figures to drop in both categories, thus affecting the sales of a particular month.





$696.4 billion

Retail sales for July 2023, which is an increase of 0.7% since June 2023.


   Special Considerations  

An accurate measure of retail sales is incredibly vital for gauging the economic health of the U.S. This is due to the fact that consumer spending, or Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE), accounts for two-thirds of gross domestic product (GDP). Retail sales are reported in the U.S. on a monthly basis.



The data for the report is collected by the U.S. Census Bureau in its Monthly Retail Trade Survey. The report, which is released in the middle of every month, shows the total number of sales in the measured time period, usually the prior month, and the percentage change from the last report. The report also includes the year-over-year change in sales to account for the seasonality of consumer-based retail.



The sales figures are often presented in two ways: with and without the inclusion of auto and gas sales. Most economists choose to analyze retail sales without including car sales because these figures tend to fluctuate more than other sales. The same applies to gas station sales which are subject to oil and gas price volatility. The main reason that this volatile data stream is ignored is that consumers don't have a choice when it comes to consumption.



Retail sales are affected by seasonality. The holiday season is typically believed to have the highest level of sales. This is partly due to the holiday shopping season for Christmas. This time of the year accounts for a large portion of yearly sales for many retailers, primarily for hobby, toy, game, and department stores.




How Is Retail Sales Data Calculated?
The retail sales figures are compiled monthly by the Census Bureau, which is part of the U.S. Department of Commerce. They are released in the middle of the month and cover the previous month's sales.




How Does Inflation Impact Retail Sales?
Higher inflation causes the price of most goods and services to spike. As a result, consumers tend to scale back overall spending or prioritize necessities and select inflation-proof purchases.




Why Are Retail Sales Important?
Retail sales are seen as a stand-in for consumer spending, and by extension, can be seen as a key measure of the health of the economy.


   The Bottom Line  

Retail sales is an important indicator that signals either the contraction or expansion of an economy. An increase in retail sales signals a healthy economy that is expanding while a decrease in retail sales signals the opposite. An increase in retail sales usually moves stocks upward and is good for shareholders.
What Are Retained Earnings?  

Retained earnings are the cumulative net earnings or profits of a company after accounting for dividend payments. As an important concept in accounting, the word “retained” captures the fact that because those earnings were not paid out to shareholders as dividends, they were instead retained by the company.



For this reason, retained earnings decrease when a company either loses money or pays dividends and increase when new profits are created.





Key Takeaways

Retained earnings (RE) are the amount of net income left over for the business after it has paid out dividends to its shareholders.The decision to retain the earnings or distribute them among shareholders is usually left to company management.A growth-focused company may not pay dividends at all or pay very small amounts because it may prefer to use retained earnings to finance expansion activities.Companies may choose to use their retained earnings for increasing production capacity, hiring more sales representatives, launching a new product, or share buybacks, among others.Retained earnings are an important variable for assessing a company’s financial health because it shows the net income that a company has saved over time, and therefore has the ability to reinvest in the business or distribute to shareholders.












Mira Norian / Investopedia


   What Is the Retained Earnings Formula and Calculation?  
















RE


=


BP


+


Net Income (or Loss)


−


C


−


S
















where:
















BP


=


Beginning Period RE
















C


=


Cash dividends
















S


=


Stock dividends







\begin{aligned} &\text{RE} = \text{BP} + \text{Net Income (or Loss)} - \text{C} - \text{S} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{BP} = \text{Beginning Period RE} \\ &\text{C} = \text{Cash dividends} \\ &\text{S} = \text{Stock dividends} \\ \end{aligned}


​RE=BP+Net Income (or Loss)−C−Swhere:BP=Beginning Period REC=Cash dividendsS=Stock dividends​


   What Can Retained Earnings Tell You?  

Retained earnings refer to the historical profits earned by a company, minus any dividends it paid in the past. To get a better understanding of what retained earnings can tell you, the following options broadly cover all possible uses that a company can make of its surplus money. For instance, the first option leads to the earnings money going out of the books and accounts of the business forever because dividend payments are irreversible.



All of the other options retain the earnings for use within the business, and such investments and funding activities constitute retained earnings.



The income money can be distributed (fully or partially) among the business owners (shareholders) in the form of dividends.
It can be invested to expand existing business operations, like increasing the production capacity of the existing products or hiring more sales representatives.
It can be invested to launch a new product/variant, like a refrigerator maker foraying into producing air conditioners or a chocolate cookie manufacturer launching orange- or pineapple-flavored variants.
The money can be used for any possible merger, acquisition, or partnership that leads to improved business prospects.
It can also be used for share buybacks.
The earnings can be used to repay any outstanding loan (debt) that the business may owe.



Retained earnings are also called earnings surplus and represent reserve money, which is available to company management for reinvesting back into the business. When expressed as a percentage of total earnings, it is also called the retention ratio and is equal to (1 - the dividend payout ratio).



Though the last option of debt repayment also leads to the money going out of the business, it still has an impact on the business’s accounts (for example, on saving future interest payments, which qualifies it for inclusion in retained earnings).



Profits give a lot of room to the business owner(s) or the company management to use the surplus money earned. This profit is often paid out to shareholders, but it can also be reinvested back into the company for growth purposes. The money not paid to shareholders counts as retained earnings.


  Management and Retained Earnings  

The decision to retain the earnings or to distribute them among shareholders is usually left to the company management. However, it can be challenged by the shareholders through a majority vote because they are the real owners of the company.



Management and shareholders may want the company to retain the earnings for several different reasons. Being better informed about the market and the company’s business, the management may have a high-growth project in view, which they may perceive as a candidate for generating substantial returns in the future.



In the long run, such initiatives may lead to better returns for the company shareholders instead of those gained from dividend payouts. Paying off high-interest debt also may be preferred by both management and shareholders, instead of dividend payments.



On the other hand, when a company generates surplus income, a portion of the long-term shareholders may expect some regular income in the form of dividends as a reward for putting their money in the company. Traders who look for short-term gains may also prefer dividend payments that offer instant gains.



Most often, the company’s management takes a balanced approach. It involves paying out a nominal amount of dividends and retaining a good portion of the earnings, which offers a win-win.


   What Is the Difference Between Retained Earnings and Dividends?  

Dividends can be distributed in the form of cash or stock. Both forms of distribution reduce retained earnings. Cash payment of dividends leads to cash outflow and is recorded in the books and accounts as net reductions. As the company loses ownership of its liquid assets in the form of cash dividends, it reduces the company’s asset value on the balance sheet, thereby impacting RE.



On the other hand, though stock dividends do not lead to a cash outflow, the stock payment transfers part of the retained earnings to common stock. For instance, if a company pays one share as a dividend for each share held by the investors, the price per share will reduce to half because the number of shares will essentially double. Because the company has not created any real value simply by announcing a stock dividend, the per-share market price is adjusted according to the proportion of the stock dividend.



Though the increase in the number of shares may not impact the company’s balance sheet because the market price is automatically adjusted, it decreases the per-share valuation, which is reflected in capital accounts, thereby impacting the RE.



A growth-focused company may not pay dividends at all or pay very small amounts because it may prefer to use the retained earnings to finance activities such as research and development (R&D), marketing, working capital requirements, capital expenditures, and acquisitions to achieve additional growth. Such companies have high retained earnings over the years.



A maturing company may not have many options or high-return projects for which to use the surplus cash, and it may prefer handing out dividends. Such companies tend to have low RE.


   What Is the Difference Between Retained Earnings and Revenue?  

Both revenue and retained earnings are important in evaluating a company’s financial health, but they highlight different aspects of the financial picture. Revenue sits at the top of the income statement and is often referred to as the top-line number when describing a company’s financial performance.



Revenue is the money generated by a company during a period but before operating expenses and overhead costs are deducted. In some industries, revenue is called gross sales because the gross figure is calculated before any deductions.



Retained earnings are the portion of a company’s cumulative profit that is held or retained and saved for future use. Retained earnings could be used for funding an expansion or paying dividends to shareholders at a later date. Retained earnings are related to net (as opposed to gross) income because it’s the net income amount saved by a company over time.


   What Are the Limitations of Retained Earnings?  

For an analyst, the absolute figure of retained earnings during a particular quarter or year may not provide any meaningful insight. Observing it over a period of time (for example, over five years) only indicates the trend of how much money a company is adding to retained earnings.



As an investor, one would like to know much more—such as the returns that the retained earnings have generated and if they were better than any alternative investments. Additionally, investors may prefer to see larger dividends rather than significant annual increases to retained earnings.


   What Is Retained Earnings to Market Value?  

One way to assess how successful a company is in using retained money is to look at a key factor called retained earnings to market value. It is calculated over a period of time (usually a couple of years) and assesses the change in stock price against the net earnings retained by the company.



For example, during the period from September 2016 through September 2020, Apple Inc.’s (AAPL) stock price rose from around $28 to around $112 per share. During the same period, the total earnings per share (EPS) was $13.61, while the total dividend paid out by the company was $3.38 per share.



As Morningstar indicates, Apple had the following EPS and dividend figures over the given time frame, and summing them up gives the above values for total EPS and total dividend.













The difference between total EPS and total dividend gives the net earnings retained by the company: $13.61 - $3.38 = $10.23. That is, over the period, the company retained a total of $10.23 earnings per share.



Over the same duration, its stock price rose by $84 ($112 - $28) per share. Dividing this price rise per share by net earnings retained per share gives a factor of 8.21 ($84 ÷ $10.23), which indicates that for each dollar of retained earnings, the company managed to create around $8.21 of market value.



If the company had not retained this money and instead taken an interest-bearing loan, the value generated would have been less due to the outgoing interest payment. RE offers internally generated capital to finance projects, allowing for efficient value creation by profitable companies. However, readers should note that the above calculation is indicative of the value created with respect to the use of retained earnings only, and it does not indicate the overall value created by the company.


   Retained Earnings Example  

Companies publicly record retained earnings under the shareholders’ equity section on the balance sheet. For instance, Apple’s balance sheet from the third fiscal quarter (fiscal Q3) of 2019 shows that the company had retained earnings of $53.724 billion as of the end of the quarter in June 2019:













Similarly, the iPhone maker, whose fiscal year ends in September, had $70.4 billion in retained earnings as of September 2018.



The retained earnings are calculated by adding net income to (or subtracting net losses from) the previous term’s retained earnings and then subtracting any net dividend(s) paid to the shareholders.



The figure is calculated at the end of each accounting period (monthly/quarterly/annually). As the formula suggests, retained earnings are dependent on the corresponding figure of the previous term. The resultant number may be either positive or negative, depending upon the net income or loss generated by the company over time. Alternatively, the company paying large dividends that exceed the other figures can also lead to the retained earnings going negative. 



Any item that impacts net income (or net loss) will impact the retained earnings. Such items include sales revenue, cost of goods sold (COGS), depreciation, and necessary operating expenses.




Are retained earnings a type of equity?
Retained earnings are a type of equity and are therefore reported in the shareholders’ equity section of the balance sheet. Although retained earnings are not themselves an asset, they can be used to purchase assets such as inventory, equipment, or other investments. Therefore, a company with a large retained earnings balance may be well-positioned to purchase new assets in the future or offer increased dividend payments to its shareholders.




What does negative retained earnings mean?
Generally speaking, a company with a negative retained earnings balance would signal weakness because it indicates that the company has experienced losses in one or more previous years. However, it is more difficult to interpret a company with high retained earnings.




What does it mean for a company to have high retained earnings?
On one hand, high retained earnings could indicate financial strength since it demonstrates a track record of profitability in previous years. On the other hand, it could be indicative of a company that should consider paying more dividends to its shareholders. This, of course, depends on whether the company has been pursuing profitable growth opportunities.




Where is retained earnings on a balance sheet?
Retained earnings can typically be found on a company’s balance sheet in the shareholders’ equity section. Retained earnings are calculated through taking the beginning-period retained earnings, adding to the net income (or loss), and subtracting dividend payouts.




Are retained earnings the same as profits?
The main difference between retained earnings and profits is that retained earnings subtract dividend payments from a company’s profit, whereas profits do not. Where profits may indicate that a company has positive net income, retained earnings may show that a company has a net loss depending on the amount of dividends it paid out to shareholders.
What Is a Retainer Fee?  

A retainer fee is an amount of money paid upfront to secure the services of a consultant, freelancer, lawyer, or other professional. A retainer fee is most commonly paid to third parties that the payer has engaged to perform a specific action on their behalf.



These fees, almost always paid upfront, only ensure the receiver's commitment. In addition, retainer fees usually do not represent the total final cost of the services provided.





Key Takeaways:

A retainer fee is a payment made to a professional, often a lawyer, by a client for future services.Retainer fees do not guarantee an outcome or final product.Portions of retainer fees can be refunded if services cost less than initially planned.


   Understanding Retainer Fees  

A retainer fee is an advance payment a client makes to a professional, and it is considered a down payment on the future services rendered by that professional. Regardless of occupation, the retainer fee funds the initial expenses of the working relationship. For this reason, these fees usually remain separate from the hourly wages of the consultant, freelancer, or lawyer. This ensures that money is not used for personal purposes before fully performing services.



The most common form of retainer fee applies to lawyers who, in most cases, require potential clients to provide an upfront retainer fee.






Retainer fees do not guarantee an outcome or final product.


   Example of a Retainer Fee  

A lawyer may charge a $500 retainer fee. If the lawyer charges $100 an hour, the retainer covers all services up to the five-hour limit. The lawyer then bills the client for the cost of any additional hours they invest on behalf of the client.



So, if a trial case takes 10 hours, the lawyer charges the client an additional $500, which comes to $1,000 when including the retainer. If the client's case is resolved before reaching the five-hour limit, the lawyer refunds the remaining portion of the retainer to the client.


   Earned Retainer Fees vs. Unearned Retainer Fees  

An unearned retainer fee refers to the initial payment held in a retainer account before any services are provided. Retainer fees are earned once services have been fully rendered.



In the example above, the retainer is considered unearned until the court case is closed and finalized. These unearned fees do not belong to the person performing the tasks—in this case, the lawyer—until work begins. Any unearned retainer fees that are not used can be returned to the client.



Earned retainer fees are the portion of the retainer that the lawyer is entitled to after work begins. Earned retainer fees may be granted to the lawyer bit by bit, depending on the number of hours worked. Retainer fees can also be distributed based on tasks or milestones. For instance, a lawyer may receive 25% of the retainer fee after completing the pre-trial process.




How Much Should a Retainer Fee Be?
It depends on the industry of the professional you're retaining the services of and their compensation expectations. Generally, it should be close to the professional's hourly rate multiplied by the hours they expect to work.




How Do You Calculate a Retainer Fee?
Retainer fees can be calculated by estimating the hours needed to complete or maintain the project the professional is hired for and multiplying it by their hourly rate. Some professionals might charge an amount per expected service.




How Much Is a Lawyer Retainer Fee in the US?
Retainer fees vary by specialty, ranging from hundreds to thousands of dollars depending on what they are retained for.


   The Bottom Line  

A retainer fee is a down payment on a professional's services to ensure you have priority. Retainer fees are usually charged by lawyers, accountants, and consultants to maintain their continued services.
What Is a Retention Bonus?  

A retention bonus is a targeted payment or reward outside of an employee's regular salary that is offered as an incentive to keep a key employee on the job during a particularly crucial business cycle, such as a merger or acquisition, or during a crucial production period. This payment, meant to keep an employee from leaving their position, is typically a one-time payment. In recent years, retention bonuses have become increasingly popular as corporate poaching has increased.





Key Takeaways

A retention bonus is a targeted one-time payment or reward outside of an employee's regular salary that is offered as an incentive to keep a key employee on the job.When an organization is going through a disruptive period of organizational change, it offers financial incentives to senior executives and key employees to persuade them to stay with the company until it becomes stable.Key employees may also be offered a retention bonus if their employer suspects they may be looking to leave to a competitor in order to keep them.Terms of a retention bonus agreement may also include non-disclosure terms, assignment right terms, and reimbursement terms should retention bonus installment payments be made.Evaluating a retention bonus agreement requires cost-benefit analysis that compares the financial incentive to the downsides of the agreement such as stunted job growth, dissatisfaction in employment, or lack of lifestyle opportunities of interest.


   Understanding Retention Bonuses  

When an organization is going through a disruptive period of organizational change, it offers financial incentives to senior executives and key employees to persuade them to stay with the company until it becomes stable. The financial incentive is referred to as a retention bonus. Retention bonuses may also be extended to preserve company-specific information during a project or technically-specific information that may be more difficult to replace.



During a merger, restructure, or reorganization, a company will attempt to retain its best employees to make certain that it has enough people working in the company during the challenging times. For example, a business that is shutting down a department or project will offer retention bonuses to its best performers to ensure that it has the much-needed employees to see the project through to the end.


   Booming Economies and Liquid Labor Markets  

In a booming economy with a strong job market in which employees are being offered and sold attractive job benefits from other companies, the probability of a business losing its valuable employees to competitors is high. With the corporate landscape changing almost daily and a liquid labor market allowing workers to move from job to job more easily, retention bonuses have provided a great way for companies to keep key employees.



In addition, employees who have obtained new skills or completed training that is vital to the operations of a business may be offered retention bonuses to ensure that they do not take their skills elsewhere. In addition to losing the employee with an advanced skillset, a company runs the risk of the employee joining a competitor.



A retention bonus is typically a one-time payment made to an employee. Companies usually prefer to offer a retention bonus instead of a salary increase because they may not have the necessary finances in place to commit to a permanent salary raise.



Depending on the company, the value of an employee’s retention bonus may be tied to the employee’s length of service with the firm. The bonus is paid at the end of a period as either a percentage of the employee’s current salary or a lump sum of money. For example, if a project will take 12 months to be completely shut down, the employee retention bonus will be paid after 15 months to ensure that the employee stays for the remaining life of the project.






Not all employment agreements contain a retention bonus, and retention bonuses may be included as a financial incentive at any time during an employee's term.


   Common Criteria of Retention Bonus Agreements  

Every retention bonus agreement will be different. However, retention bonus agreements will broadly touch the same concepts that an employee must agree to in order to be eligible for their bonus.



Financial Terms: This includes the dollar amount if the payment is to be a lump-sum payment or valuation amount if the payment is to be an equity distribution.
Employment Status: This means an employee must be employed by the company in a specific capacity on a specific date. This date is often called the vesting date or vesting period.
Financial Health: This includes the condition that the company must be solvent and meet specific liquidity conditions in order for the bonus payment to be made.
Continued Employment Disclaimer: This language often stipulates that the retention bonus agreement does not confirm or guarantee employment after the vesting date has passed.
Non-Disclosure Agreement: This means an employee must not disclose specific information to competitors or external parties during the duration of the retention bonus agreement.
Bonus Assignment: This language confirms that should the company be acquired or merge with another company during the retention period, the employee's retention bonus may be assigned to a different legal entity.
Reimbursement Agreement: Should a retention bonus be paid in periodic installment, an agreement may require the employee to repay or reimburse the company for previously received retention bonuses should the employee leave prior to the final payment.
Signature: The retention bonus agreement often requires a signature from the company and signature from the employee to be legally binding.


   Special Considerations: Tax Treatment of Retention Bonuses  

The IRS treats all bonuses, including retention bonuses, as supplemental wages. Supplemental wage is defined simply as compensation paid in addition to the employee’s regular wages. Taxes are usually applied to a retention bonus using either the aggregate method or the percentage method.



Under the percentage method, bonuses are separated from the employee's salary and taxed a flat rate of 22% directly. If the bonus amount is over $1 million, then it will be taxed 37% (or the highest income tax rate for that year). If an employee received $1.2 million as a retention bonus in 2021, $200,000 would be taxed at 37%, and $1 million would be taxed the regular 22% rate.



The aggregate method is used when the employer withholds tax by combining the retention bonus with the employee’s regular salary into a single payment. The tax rate used is found in the withholding table, which is based on information submitted in the employee’s IRS W-4 Form.






Retention bonuses are often subject to withholding taxes, and the retention bonus agreement will stipulate the terms of withholding.


   Benefits of a Retention Bonus  
  Benefits for Employers  

The obvious primary benefit for employers for offering a retention bonus is the retention of the employee. By keeping a specific worker around for longer, the company may:



Have better cross-training opportunities before the employee leaves.Have support on specific aspects of the company throughout the entire life of a project.Have continuity between staff members to ensure overlapping periods of headcount.Have better operational results as the retained employee is financially motivated to meet the criteria of their retention bonus.



Employers may also receive notoriety for offering retention bonuses. This may incidentally lead to greater recruitment interest as prospective workers may be enticed to the company for this reason. In addition, current employees may feel motivated to work harder to gain specialized knowledge in hopes of receiving a retention bonus one day themselves. Last, companies may experience lower net expenses when considering the cost of hiring a new employee.


  Benefits for Employees  

The obvious benefit for a retained employee is the additional financial incentive. Often equal to up to 15% of their base compensation, an employee will simply get paid more money if they stick around the company offering a retention bonus.



Agreeing to a retention bonus arrangement also has positive impacts on the relationship between an employee or company. The company clearly needs the employee to stay; though bridges may not be burned when the employee departs, a employee is more likely to forge a stronger long-term relationship with company personnel as they help them through the retention period.



Though an employee is being financial incentivized to stay, employees may also gain trust of prospective employers by demonstrating their loyalty by staying through the retention period. This includes the demonstration that the employee was a critical part of the success of the company, helping publicly boost the employee's general value to other employers.


   How to Earn a Retention Bonus  

There's never a guarantee that your company will extend a retention bonus offer to you. However, there are specific conditions that are often in place that make it more likely for a company to financially incentivize an employee to temporarily stay. Conditions to increase your odds of you earning a retention bonus include:



Gain employment in specific industries. Technically-advanced industries are more likely to extend retention bonuses as employees may be more difficult to find with company-specific or industry-specific knowledge.
Enter project-centric roles. Some retention bonuses are tied to projects where a company does not want to lose key staff members during the life of the project.
Identify M&A target companies. Other retention bonuses are tied to companies that merge or are acquired by other companies that do not want to lose staff during the acquisition period.
Continue to advance and be promoted. Retention bonuses are more likely to be paid to higher-level staff with more important knowledge worth retaining.
Search for jobs that specifically mention retention bonuses. Job postings may list specific positions eligible for a retention bonus, and companies may broadly announce they this is a benefit for working for their their company.






Even if a job doesn't list a retention bonus, consider negotiating to have one included. Companies may be more inclined to award a higher back-end retention bonus as opposed to a front-end signing bonus.


   Should You Accept a Retention Bonus?  

Analyzing whether or not to accept a retention bonus is an example of a cost-benefit analysis. On one hand, you may be entitled to a lump sum payment should you stay with your current employer in the short-term. On the other hand, you may be sacrificing greater potential benefits in return. You should accept a retention bonus offer if the bonus outweighs the "costs" below:



The financial cost of not pursuing a different job. This includes forgoing a potentially higher salary, incentive plan, or better company payroll benefits.The cost of (not) developing your career. Regardless of pay, accepting a bonus payment prevents an employee from pursuing other career development growth changes. This includes potentially not learning or having greater project opportunities.The cost of being unhappy at work. A non-financial consideration is an emotional expense of staying in a job an employee may not be happy at. Accepting a retention bonus agreement means an employee must commit to their role even if they are not satisfied, stressed, or unhappy with their current role.The cost of foregoing lifestyle options. An employee must accept a company's current work benefit or structure. For example, an employee interested in remote work may have to accept that their company requires an in-office presence during their retention bonus period.




What Is a Typical Retention Bonus?
Retention bonuses are highly specific to the individual company and position. Though most retention bonuses will land around 10%-15% of an employee's compensation, more senior employees with more specialized knowledge will often receive more favorable retention bonuses.




How Are Retention Bonuses Paid?
Retention bonuses are often paid as a lump sum on a specified date agreed to by both the employee and the company. Should the agreement be modified or terminated early, the employee may receive a pro rata proportion of the bonus or may forego the bonus entirely. In addition, some agreements may be structured where the employee receives small portions over time (i.e. 5% of the bonus each month for five months, then the remaining 75% bonus in the final month of employment).




Who Is Eligible for a Retention Bonus?
Any employee is technically eligible for a retention bonus. However, companies will likely only offer retention bonuses to highly-skilled, technically-proficient workers that will be difficult to replace during a specific time period. In addition, employees with more integral knowledge about a company's specific project or department may be more likely to be incentivized to stay while other staff members are brought up to speed on specific information about the company.




Can You Negotiate a Retention Bonus?
Yes, employees can negotiate their retention bonus. In addition to negotiating the payoff amount of the retention bonus, employees should discuss the term of the agreement to ensure they are comfortable with the date of the payment and the expectation of what the employee will do during the retention bonus period.


   The Bottom Line  

Retention bonuses are additional incentive payments used to entice an employee into staying with a company. When used effectively, both a company and the employee mutually agree there is a benefit on both ends for the worker to stay. When used ineffectively, an employee may receive compensation for not delivering much value. The decision whether or not to accept a retention bonus depends on extenuating financial and non-financial factors.
What Is the Retention Ratio?  

The retention ratio is the proportion of earnings kept back in the business as retained earnings. The retention ratio refers to the percentage of net income that is retained to grow the business, rather than being paid out as dividends. It is the opposite of the payout ratio, which measures the percentage of profit paid out to shareholders as dividends. The retention ratio is also called the plowback ratio.





Key Takeaways

The retention ratio is the portion of earnings kept back in a firm to grow the business as opposed to being paid out as dividends to shareholders.The payout ratio is the opposite of the retention ratio which measures the percentage of profits paid out as dividends to shareholders.After dividends have been paid out, the amount of profit left over is known as retained earnings.The retention ratio helps investors determine how much money a company is keeping to reinvest in the company's operations.Growing companies typically have high retention ratios as they are investing earnings back into the company to grow rapidly.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   Understanding the Retention Ratio  

Companies that make a profit at the end of a fiscal period can use the funds for a number of purposes. The company's management can pay the profit to shareholders as dividends, they can retain it to reinvest in the business for growth, or they can do some combination of both. The portion of the profit that a company chooses to retain or save for later use is called retained earnings.



Retained earnings is the amount of net income left over for the business after it has paid out dividends to its shareholders. A business generates earnings that can be positive (profits) or negative (losses).



Retained earnings are similar to a savings account because it's the cumulative collection of profit that's retained or not paid out to shareholders. Profit can also be reinvested back into the company for growth purposes.



The retention ratio helps investors determine how much money a company is keeping to reinvest in the company's operation. If a company pays all of its retained earnings out as dividends or does not reinvest back into the business, earnings growth might suffer. Also, a company that is not using its retained earnings effectively has an increased likelihood of taking on additional debt or issuing new equity shares to finance growth.



As a result, the retention ratio helps investors determine a company's reinvestment rate. However, companies that hoard too much profit might not be using their cash effectively and might be better off had the money been invested in new equipment, technology, or expanding product lines.



New companies typically don't pay dividends since they're still growing and need the capital to finance growth. However, established companies usually pay a portion of their retained earnings out as dividends while also reinvesting a portion back into the company.


   How to Calculate the Retention Ratio  

The formulas for the retention ratio are



﻿









Retention Ratio


=




Retained Earnings




Net Income










\begin{aligned} \text{Retention Ratio}=\frac{\text{Retained Earnings}}{\text{Net Income}} \end{aligned}


Retention Ratio=Net IncomeRetained Earnings​​﻿



or the alternative formula is:



﻿









Retention Ratio


=




Net Income


−


 Dividends Distributed




Net Income










\begin{aligned} \text{Retention Ratio}=\frac{\text{Net Income} -\text{ Dividends Distributed}}{\text{Net Income}}\\ \end{aligned}


Retention Ratio=Net IncomeNet Income− Dividends Distributed​​﻿



There are two ways to calculate the retention ratio. The first formula involves locating retained earnings in the shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet.



Obtain the company's net income figure listed at the bottom of its income statement.Divide the company's retained earnings by the net income figure.



The alternative formula does not use retained earnings but instead subtracts dividends distributed from net income and divides the result by net income.


   Special Considerations  

The retention ratio is typically higher for growth companies that are experiencing rapid increases in revenues and profits. A growth company would prefer to plow earnings back into its business if it believes that it can reward its shareholders by increasing revenues and profits at a faster pace than shareholders could achieve by investing their dividend receipts.



Investors may be willing to forego dividends if a company has high growth prospects, which is typically the case with companies in sectors such as technology and biotechnology.



The retention rate for technology companies in a relatively early stage of development is generally 100%, as they seldom pay dividends. But in mature sectors such as utilities and telecommunications, where investors expect a reasonable dividend, the retention ratio is typically quite low because of the high dividend payout ratio.



The retention ratio may change from one year to the next, depending on the company’s earnings volatility and dividend payment policy. Many blue chip companies have a policy of paying steadily increasing or, at least, stable dividends. Companies in defensive sectors such as pharmaceuticals and consumer staples are likely to have more stable payout and retention ratios than energy and commodity companies, whose earnings are more cyclical.


   Limitations of Using the Retention Ratio  

A limitation of the retention ratio is that companies that have a significant amount of retained earnings will likely have a high retention ratio, but that doesn't necessarily mean the company is investing those funds back into the company.



Also, a retention ratio doesn't calculate how the funds are invested or if any investment back into the company was done effectively. It's best to utilize the retention ratio along with other financial metrics to determine how well a company is deploying its retained earnings into investments.



As with any financial ratio, it's also important to compare the results with companies in the same industry as well as monitor the ratio over several quarters to determine if there's any trend.


   Real World Example  

Below is a copy of the balance sheet for Meta (META), formerly Facebook, as reported in the company's annual 10-K, which was filed on Jan. 31, 2019.



In the shareholders' equity section, the company's retained earnings totaled $41.981 billion for the period (highlighted in green).From the company's income statement (not shown) it posted a profit or net income of $22.112 billion for the same period.Calculate its retention ratio by the following: $41.981 billion / $22.112 billion, which equals 1.89 or 189%.



The reason the retention ratio is so high is that the tech company has accumulated profit and didn't pay dividends. As a result, the company had plenty of retained earnings to invest in the company's future. A high retention ratio is very common for technology companies.















Facebook balance sheet example.
 Investopedia
What Is a Retirement Income Certified Professional (RICP)?  

The term Retirement Income Certified Professional (RICP) refers to a financial professional who specializes in retirement income planning. Financial professionals earn the RICP designation after following the program for retirement income professionals. Once qualified, RICPs advise retirees and near-retirees as to the best way to use the assets they have accumulated for retirement to live comfortably within a realistic budget and not run out of money prematurely.





Key Takeaways

A retirement income certified professional specializes in retirement income planning.The designation is given to professionals who complete the RICP training program offered by the American College of Financial Professionals.RICPs help retirees and near-retirees use the assets they have accumulated for retirement sustainably.RICP applicants must have three years' worth of business experience.Students take three courses and must pass an exam for each.


   Understanding Retirement Income Certified Professionals (RICPs)  

According to its website, the American College of Financial Services gives financial professionals access to the education they need to achieve their career goals. Financial programs range from the chartered life underwriter (CLU) insurance specialty program—the first financial designation program offered by the school since 1927—to the more recent RICP.



The not-for-profit college located in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, created the RICP designation to serve the financial planning needs of America’s increasing population of retirees and near-retirees. The knowledge required to accumulate retirement savings and the ability to use that savings to generate a comfortable and lasting income in retirement is considered two separate traits.






The growing number of retirees is creating demand for financial professionals who can guide people in the optimal use of their assets during retirement—not just how to save for retirement as they age.



The RICP is designed for financial professionals who already have a broad-based financial planning credential, such as chartered financial consultant, certified financial planner, or CLU, or whose businesses already emphasize retirement income planning. Applicants must have three years of business experience in order to be considered for the program. According to the website, an undergraduate or graduate degree is the equivalent of one year's worth of experience.






To take the RICP program, applicants must already be financial professionals such as a chartered financial consultant, a certified financial planner, or a chartered life underwriter.



Designed as a self-study program, the RICP curriculum consists of three online courses that students must complete. They are as follows:



Retirement Income Process, Strategies, and SolutionsSources of Retirement IncomeManaging a Retirement Income Plan



The program provides students with a series of best practices ranging from topics such as Social Security, risks in retirement financial planning, Medicare and other health insurance options, long-term care needs, as well as tax and estate planning. These arm RICPs with the tools they need to help their clients maintain their customary standard of living throughout retirement, address income gaps, create an estate plan, and limit risk.



Students must pass a closed-book 100-question exam at the end of each course. RICPs must adhere to a code of ethics and reporting requirements. Individuals with the RICP designation must also update their credentials with 15 hours of continuing education that they must complete every two years.


   Special Considerations  

While many financial professionals are experienced in advising and helping individuals to accumulate retirement assets, the increasing number of retirees means there is a large demand for expertise in how to manage and use those assets. But fewer advisers have expertise in subjects such as how to determine the following:



When a client is financially prepared to retire
The rate at which retirement savings should be withdrawn
How an individual’s asset allocation should change during retirement
The best age for an individual to start claiming Social Security benefits
How to pay for health care and nursing home care
Late-in-life tax planning
Retirement housing



The RICP program aims to fill the gap in the financial industry.
What Is a Retirement Money Market Account?  

A retirement money market account is a money market account held within someone's larger retirement account, such as an individual retirement account (IRA) or 401(k). In a retirement money market account, deposits are placed in low-risk investments such as certificates of deposit (CDs), Treasury bills, and short-term commercial paper.





Key Takeaways

Retirement money market accounts are money market accounts held in a retirement account such as a 401(k) or an IRA.These accounts pay lower interest rates but provide liquidity and stability.Retirement money market accounts held in a bank are FDIC-insured.If you're retired, you can use a retirement money market account to write checks and make withdrawals as needed.


   How a Retirement Money Market Account Works  

A retirement money market account is meant to be a temporary holding point for cash you move into the account before it's invested in securities with greater potential for returns. The deposits are invested in low-risk investments that may pay only slightly better than a savings account. But the benefit is that the funds are stable and liquid. The downside is that the return on such an account tends to be very low compared with equity investments or even less-liquid fixed-income investments.



A retirement money market account may be held within a Roth IRA, traditional IRA, rollover IRA, 401(k), or other retirement account. Unlike a regular money market account, a retirement money market account is governed by a retirement plan agreement. That means, for example, that you may not be able to withdraw money from the account without paying a penalty until you have reached a minimum age, such as 59½. As a benefit, however, the account balance may be allowed to grow tax-free.



A retirement money market account is a conservative investment that may be used as part of a diversification strategy within an overall retirement portfolio. Its value is expected to remain stable regardless of how the stock or bond markets perform.



Regular savings accounts, on the other hand, with often lower rates, give you the advantage of easier access to money should you need it, though there may be limits on how many monthly transactions may be made. Regular money market accounts may also have monthly transaction limits, but may offer the ability to use debit cards or checks to access the money. Some of the best money market accounts may pay higher interest rates than regular savings accounts. For example, in June 2023, the money market account interest rates ranged from 4.00% to over 5.00% APY.





Important

Money market funds are mutual funds that are offered by brokerages, investment companies, and financial services firms. They pool money from multiple investors and invest in high-quality, short-term securities. Their funds are easily accessible. While money market accounts sound similar (and people often confuse the two), they are actually closer to savings accounts. Money market accounts are on-demand, interest-bearing accounts that are held at a bank or credit union. Both types of accounts are recommended components of an overall retirement savings plan.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Retirement Money Market Account  

Unlike stocks and bonds, money market account balances held at a bank are FDIC-insured up to $250,000 per depositor, per institution.



In addition, a retirement money market account may be used to store the proceeds of stock and bond sales as the account holder gets older and seeks more-conservative holdings. In addition, money market accounts often have check-writing privileges, making it easy for retirees to withdraw retirement account funds as needed.



While these accounts sometimes pay a higher rate of interest than a generic savings account, a major drawback of retirement money market accounts is that they may not earn enough interest to outpace inflation, meaning your balance effectively shrinks each year in terms of its purchasing power. It's critical not to get complacent and leave cash in a retirement money market account for too long because the funds should be invested for optimum returns to boost your retirement savings.





Important

Penalty-free withdrawals generally aren't allowed from retirement money market accounts until you reach age 59½.


   Part of a Retirement Savings Strategy  

Most people don't know how much money they'll actually need for their retirement. Not saving enough means not being able to afford a certain lifestyle. And it also means you'll have to work longer, which may not be feasible.



Short-term investments such as high-yield savings accounts, regular money market accounts, and certain CDs are great places to store your cash. As noted above, these investment vehicles are insured and provide lower returns. But because they are easily liquidated, you can rely on them for immediate needs, such as a car or a family emergency.





Tip

Consider putting your money saved into different buckets—one for the short term, one for the medium term, and one for the long term—all of which can serve a different purpose.



Investments that may be good for the medium term, anywhere from two to seven years, include stocks and bonds. By investing via a brokerage account, for example, you can get exposure to the market, giving you enough time to generate significant returns when the market is good. Diversifying these investments helps protect you when the market isn't good. And when a big goal is approaching, such as college for your children or your own retirement, you can shelter some of this money in regular money market accounts and similar safer harbors.



Your long-term investment bucket—for a horizon of more than seven years—should also include stocks, bonds, and other securities like mutual funds. In addition, you should consider opening an IRA, a 401(k), or a Roth IRA, in which you can hold a retirement money market account. If you have an employer-sponsored plan, it's a great way to invest pretax money, and your employer may match part or all of your savings. Long-term investments give you more time to recover from market losses.




What Is Unique About a Retirement Money Market Account?
Money in a retirement money market account is governed by a retirement plan. This can place some limits on what you can do with the money in this type of money market account. For example, it means you can’t withdraw money from your retirement money market account until you have reached a certain age. On the flip side, the money in the account can grow tax-free or tax-deferred, although it shouldn't be left in a money market account for long. You may be able to maximize returns by taking the money and investing it in securities like stocks.




How Do a Regular Money Market Account and a Retirement Money Market Account Differ?
The main difference between a retirement money market account and a traditional money market account is where the money and account are held. A retirement money market account is part of a broader retirement account, such as a 401(k) or an IRA. A traditional money market account is usually held at a bank or credit union and operates much like a savings account but with check-writing privileges.




How Is a Regular Money Market Account Different from a 401(k)?
A regular money market account is similar to a savings account in that the money is liquid and offers a specific rate of interest. A 401(k) is a tax-deferred account that acts as a vehicle for a wide range of investments to save for retirement. Contributions to a 401(k) are made with pre-tax money and you must pay taxes on your withdrawals. A regular money market account is funded with after-tax dollars, and there are no tax benefits associated with these accounts. Money market accounts come with an interest rate that guarantees returns, but it can change over time. A 401(k) account invests money in funds, stocks, and bonds, and returns are not guaranteed.


   The Bottom Line  

A retirement money market account is a money market account that's part of a retirement account, like an IRA or 401(k). In a retirement money market account, your money is placed in lower-risk, fairly liquid accounts and investments like CDs, Treasury bills, and short-term commercial paper.



This type of money market account is meant to be a temporary place for your cash before you move it into the account before it's invested in securities with greater potential for returns. Money market deposits are invested in low-risk options that may pay only slightly better than a savings account. But the benefit is that the funds are stable and liquid. However, the return on such an account tends to be lower than equity investments or fixed income investments, so it's important to not wait—move your money into investments where you can potentially earn better returns to maximize your retirement savings.
What Is Retirement Planning?  

Retirement planning involves determining retirement income goals and what's needed to achieve those goals. Retirement planning includes identifying income sources, sizing up expenses, implementing a savings program, and managing assets and risk. Future cash flows are estimated to gauge whether the retirement income goal is possible.



You can start at any time, but it works best if you factor it into your financial planning as early as possible. That’s the best way to ensure a safe, secure—and fun—retirement. The fun part is why it makes sense to pay attention to the serious and perhaps boring part: planning how you’ll get there.





Key Takeaways

It is never too early or too late to start retirement planning.Retirement planning refers to financial strategies of saving, investments, and ultimately distributing money meant to sustain oneself during retirement.Many popular investment vehicles, such as individual retirement accounts and 401(k)s, allow retirement savers to grow their money with certain tax advantages.Retirement planning takes into account not only assets and income but also future expenses, liabilities, and life expectancy.If you are under 50, you can contribute a maximum of $22,500 in 2023 to a $401(k) (up from $20,500 for 2022).







8 Essential Tips For Retirement Saving


   Understanding Retirement Planning  

In the simplest sense, retirement planning is what one does to be prepared for life after paid work ends. This isn't just financially but in all aspects of life.



The non-financial aspects include lifestyle choices such as how to spend time in retirement, where to live, and when to quit working altogether, among other things. A holistic approach to retirement planning considers all these areas.



The emphasis that one puts on retirement planning changes at different stages of life. For instance:



Early in a person’s working life, retirement planning is about setting aside enough money for retirement. During the middle of your career, it might also include setting specific income or asset targets and taking steps to achieve them. Once you reach retirement age, you go from accumulating assets to what planners call the distribution phase. You’re no longer paying into your retirement account(s). Instead, your decades of saving begin paying you out.






Some retirement plans change depending on where you are. For instance, the United States and Canada each have unique systems of workplace-sponsored plans.


   How Much Do You Need to Retire?  

Remember that retirement planning starts long before you retire. The general rule is the sooner you start, the better. Your magic number, which is the amount you need to retire comfortably, is highly personalized. But there are numerous rules of thumb that can give you an idea of how much to save.



How much you need depends on who you ask. For instance:



People used to say that you need around $1 million to retire comfortably.
Other professionals use the 80% rule, which states that you need enough to live on 80% of your income at retirement. So if you made $100,000 per year, then you would need savings that could produce $80,000 per year for roughly 20 years, or a total of $1.6 million, including the income generated by your retirement assets.
Others say most retirees aren’t saving anywhere near enough to meet those benchmarks and should adjust their lifestyle to live on what they have.



While the amount of money you'll want to have in your nest egg is important, it's also a good idea to consider all of your expenses. Be sure to calculate the costs for housing, health insurance, food, clothing, and your vehicle/transportation. And since you'll have more free time on your hands, you may also want to factor in the cost of entertainment and travel. While it may be hard to come up with concrete figures, be sure to come up with a reasonable estimate so there are no surprises later on.






Start as early as you can on whatever method that you, and possibly a financial planner, use to calculate your retirement savings needs.


   Steps to Retirement Planning  

Regardless of where you are in life, there are several key steps that apply to almost everyone during their retirement planning. The following are some of the most common:



Come up with a plan. This includes deciding when you want to start saving when you want to retire, and how much you'd like to save for your ultimate goal.
Decide how much you'll set aside each month. Using automatic deductions takes away the guesswork, keeps you on track, and takes away the temptation to stop or forget depositing money on your own.
Choose the right accounts for you. Take the chance to invest in a 401(k) or similar account if your employer offers that option. Remember, if the company offers an employer match and you don't sign up, you're just giving away free money. And don't forget to have an emergency fund, which can be easily liquidated if you need cash in a pinch.
Check on your investments from time to time and make periodic adjustments. It's always a good idea to make any changes whenever there's a change in your lifestyle and when you enter a different stage in your life.


   Retirement Plans  

Retirement accounts come in many shapes and sizes. The rules and regulations for each may be different.


  Employer-Sponspored Plans  

Young adults should take advantage of employer-sponsored 401(k) or 403(b) plans. The former is a type of retirement account offered by major corporations. The latter is a similar plan used by employees of public schools and certain charities. Both work in similar fashions.



An up-front benefit of these qualified retirement plans is that your employer has the option to match what you invest up to a certain amount. For example, if you contribute 3% of your annual income to your plan account, your employer may match that and deposit the equivalent sum into your retirement account, essentially giving you a 3% bonus that grows over the years.



You can and should contribute more than the amount that will earn the employer match. In fact, some experts recommend upward of 10%. For the 2023 tax year, participants under age 50 can contribute up to $22,500 of their earnings to a 401(k) or 403(b) (up from $20,500 for 2022), some of which may be additionally matched by an employer. People over age 50 can contribute an extra $7,500 per year as a catch-up contribution (up from $6,500 in 2022).



Additional advantages of 401(k) plans include earning a higher rate of return than a savings account (although the investments are not free of risk). Also, the funds within the account are not subject to income tax until you withdraw them. Since your contributions are taken off your gross income, you will get an immediate income tax break. Those who are on the cusp of a higher tax bracket might consider contributing enough to lower their tax liability.


  Traditional Individual Retirement Account (IRA)  

The traditional individual retirement account (IRA) lets you put aside pre-tax dollars. This means that the money you save is deducted from your income before your taxes are taken out. As such, it lowers your taxable income and, therefore, your tax liability. So if you're on the cusp of a higher tax bracket, investing in a traditional IRA can knock you down to a lower one.



The tax benefit to this kind of account is upfront. So when it comes time to take distributions from the account, you are subject to your standard tax rate at that time. Keep in mind, though, that the money grows on a tax-deferred basis. There are no capital gains or dividend taxes that are assessed on the balance of your account until you begin making withdrawals.



The IRS sets limits on how much you can contribute to a traditional IRA each year. This figure is set based on inflation. The limit for 2023 is $6,500 (up from $6,000 in 2022). People who are 50 and older can invest an additional $1,000 for a total of $7,500 in 2023 (up from $6,500 in 2022). Distributions must be taken at age 72 and can be taken as early as 59½. You are subject to a 10% penalty if you make withdrawals before that. You will also incur taxes at your regular income tax rate.


  Roth Individual Retirement Account (IRA)  

A Roth IRA can be an excellent tool for young adults, funded with post-tax dollars. This eliminates the immediate tax deduction but avoids a more significant income tax bite when the money is withdrawn at retirement. Starting a Roth IRA early can pay off big time in the long run, even if you don’t have a lot of money to invest at first. Remember, the longer the money sits in a retirement account, the more tax-free interest is earned.



Roth IRAs have some limitations. The contribution limit for either IRA (Roth or traditional) is $6,500 a year, or $7,500 if you are over age 50. Still, a Roth has some income limits: A single filer can contribute the full amount only if they make $129,000 or less annually, as of the 2022 tax year, and $138,000 in 2023. After that, you can invest to a lesser degree, up to an annual income of $144,000 in 2022 and $153,000 in 2023. (The income limits are higher for married couples filing jointly.)



Like a 401(k), a Roth IRA has some penalties associated with taking money out before you hit retirement age. But there are a few notable exceptions that may be very useful for younger people or in case of emergency. First, you can always withdraw the initial capital you invested without paying a penalty. Second, you can withdraw funds for certain educational expenses, a first-time home purchase, health care expenses, and disability costs.


  SIMPLE Individual Retirement Account (IRA)  

The SIMPLE IRA is a retirement account offered to employees of small businesses in lieu of the 401(k), which is expensive to maintain. It works the same way a 401(k) does, allowing employees to save money automatically through payroll deductions with the option of an employer match. This amount is capped at 3% of an employee's annual salary. The annual contribution limit for a SIMPLE IRA is $15,500 in 2023, up from $14,000 in 2022. Catch-up contributions of $3,500 allow employees 50 or older to bump that limit up to $19,000.






Once you set up a retirement account, the question becomes how to direct the funds. For those intimidated by the stock market, consider investing in an index fund that requires little maintenance, as it simply mirrors a stock market index like the Standard & Poor’s 500. Target-date funds are also designed to automatically alter and diversify assets over time based on your goal retirement age.


   Stages of Retirement Planning  

Below are some guidelines for successful retirement planning at different stages of your life.


  Young Adulthood (Ages 21–35)  

Those embarking on adult life may not have a lot of money free to invest, but they do have time to let investments mature, which is a critical and valuable piece of retirement savings. This is because of the principle of compounding.



Compound interest allows interest to earn interest, and the more time you have, the more interest you will earn. Even if you can only put aside $50 a month, it will be worth three times more if you invest it at age 25 than if you wait to start investing until age 45, thanks to the joys of compounding. You might be able to invest more money in the future, but you’ll never be able to make up for any lost time.






Keep in mind that certain federal agencies and uniformed services offer thrift savings plans.


  Early Midlife (Ages 36–50)  

Early midlife tends to bring a number of financial strains, including mortgages, student loans, insurance premiums, and credit card debt. However, it’s critical to continue saving at this stage of retirement planning. The combination of earning more money and the time you still have to invest and earn interest makes these years some of the best for aggressive savings.



People at this stage of retirement planning should continue to take advantage of any 401(k) matching programs that their employers offer. They should also try to max out contributions to a 401(k) or Roth IRA (you can have both at the same time). For those ineligible for a Roth IRA, consider a traditional IRA. As with your 401(k), this is funded with pretax dollars, and the assets within it grow tax-deferred.



Some employer-sponsored plans offer a Roth option to set aside after-tax retirement contributions. You are limited to the same annual limit, but there are no income limitations as with a Roth IRA.



Finally, don’t neglect life insurance and disability insurance. You want to ensure that your family could survive financially without pulling from retirement savings should something happen to you.


  Later Midlife (Ages 50–65)  

As you age, your investment accounts should become more conservative. While time is running out to save for people at this stage of retirement planning, there are a few advantages. Higher wages and potentially having some of the aforementioned expenses (mortgages, student loans, credit card debt, etc.) paid off by this time can leave you with more disposable income to invest.



And it's never too late to set up and contribute to a 401(k) or an IRA. One benefit of this retirement planning stage is catch-up contributions. From age 50 on, you can contribute an additional $1,000 a year to your traditional or Roth IRA and an additional $7,500 a year to your 401(k) in 2023 (up from $6,500 for 2022).



For those who have maxed out tax-incentivized retirement savings options, consider other forms of investment to supplement your retirement savings. Certificates of deposit (CDs), blue-chip stocks, or certain real estate investments (like a vacation home that you rent out) may be reasonably safe ways to add to your nest egg.



You can also begin to get a sense of what your Social Security benefits will be and at what age it makes sense to start taking them. Eligibility for early benefits starts at age 62, but the retirement age for full benefits is 66.



This is also the time to look into long-term care insurance, which will help cover the costs of a nursing home or home care should you need it in your advanced years. If you don't properly plan for health-related expenses, especially unexpected ones, they can decimate your savings.






The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers an online calculator.


   Other Aspects of Retirement Planning  

Retirement planning includes a lot more than simply how much you will save and how much you need. It takes into account your complete financial picture.


  Your Home  

For most Americans, the single biggest asset they own is their home. How does that fit into your retirement plan? A home was considered an asset in the past, but since the housing market crash, planners see it as less of an asset than they once did. With the popularity of home equity loans and home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), many homeowners are entering retirement in mortgage debt instead of well above water.



Once you retire, there’s also the question of whether you should sell your home. If you still live in the home where you raised multiple children, it might be more significant than you need, and the expenses that come with holding onto it might be considerable. Your retirement plan should include an unbiased look at your home and what to do with it.


  Estate Planning  

Your estate plan addresses what happens to your assets after you die. It should include a will that lays out your plans, but even before that, you should set up a trust or use some other strategy to keep as much of it as possible shielded from estate taxes. 



As of 2023, the first $12.92 million of an estate is exempt from estate taxes (up from $12.06 million for 2022), but more and more people are finding ways to leave their money to their children in a way that doesn’t pay them in a lump sum. There may also be changes coming down the pipeline in Congress regarding estate taxes, as the estate tax amount is scheduled to drop to $5 million in 2026.


  Tax Efficiency  

Once you reach retirement age and begin taking distributions, taxes become a big problem. Most of your retirement accounts are taxed as ordinary income tax. That means you could pay as much as 37% in taxes on any money that you take from your traditional 401(k) or IRA. That’s why it’s essential to consider a Roth IRA or a Roth 401(k), as both allow you to pay taxes upfront rather than upon withdrawal.



If you believe you will make more money later in life, it may make sense to do a Roth conversion. An accountant or financial planner can help you work through such tax considerations.


  Insurance  

A key component of retirement planning is protecting your assets. Age comes with increased medical expenses, and you will have to navigate the often-complicated Medicare system. Many people feel that standard Medicare doesn’t provide adequate coverage, so they look to a Medicare Advantage or Medigap policy to supplement it. There’s also life insurance and long-term care insurance to consider.



Another type of policy issued by an insurance company is an annuity. An annuity is much like a pension. You put money on deposit with an insurance company that later pays you a set monthly amount. There are many different options with annuities and many considerations when deciding if an annuity is right for you.




How Do I Start Planning for Retirement?
Retirement planning isn't difficult. It's as easy as setting aside some money every month—every little bit counts. The easiest way is to start contributing through an employer-sponsored plan if your company offers one. You may also want to consider talking to a professional, such as a financial planner or investment broker who can steer you in the right direction. The earlier you start, the better. That's because your investments grow over time by earning interest. And you'll earn interest on that interest.




Why Is Retirement Planning So Important?
Retirement planning allows you to sock away enough money to maintain the same lifestyle you currently have. After all, no one wants to work right up until the end. While you may work part-time or pick up the odd gig here or there, it probably won't be enough to sustain your current lifestyle. And Social Security benefits will only take you so far. That's why it's so important to have a viable plan that allows you to get the maximum amount of money when you retire.




What Other Aspects Should I Consider During Retirement?
Retirement planning is such an important part of your financial well-being. But there are other things you need to consider outside of what happens after you retire. Ensure that your finances are giving you the biggest tax breaks possible, so a Roth conversion may be a good idea if you believe you'll be earning some income later on in life. You may also want to consider what happens to your assets after you die, which is where estate planning comes into play. Life insurance can help offset any expenses that you leave behind for your loved ones if you become injured or die unexpectedly.


   The Bottom Line  

Everyone dreams of the day they can finally say goodbye to the workforce and retire. But doing so costs money. That's where retirement planning comes into play. And it doesn't matter at which point you are in your life. Sure, you may have Social Security benefits, but that may not be enough, especially if you're used to a certain lifestyle. Setting aside money now means you'll have less to worry about later.
What Is a Retracement?  

A retracement is a technical term used to identify a minor pullback or change in the direction of a financial instrument, such as a stock or index. Retracements are temporary in nature and do not indicate a shift in the larger trend.





Key Takeaways

A retracement is a minor pullback or change in the direction of a financial instrument, such as a stock or index.The term, used by technical analysts to analyze the price of securities, refers to a short-term change in a stock's price relative to an overarching trend.Once a retracement is over, there should be a continuation of the previous trend.Retracements are not the same as reversals—with the latter, the price of the security must breach support or resistance levels.


   Understanding a Retracement  

A retracement refers to the temporary reversal of an overarching trend in a stock's price. Distinct from a reversal, retracements are short-term periods of movement against a trend, followed by a return to the previous trend.



The chart below illustrates the share price of General Electric Co. It is showing that the stock is in a downtrend. However, there are points on the chart that indicate that the price is rising, which would be considered a retracement.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



A retracement by itself does not say much. However, when combined with other technical indicators it can help a trader identify if the current trend is likely to continue or if a significant reversal is taking hold.






A retracement should be used with other technical indicators and never alone. If not used correctly, it could cause the analysis to be misguided.


   Retracement vs. Reversal  

It is essential to determine the difference between a reversal and a short-term retracement. A retracement is not easy to identify because it can easily be mistaken for a reversal. Even worse is if a reversal is mistaken for a retracement.



The chart below shows the S&P 500 during 2018 when a significant uptrend took place between April and October. There are three retracements identified on the chart, although there were a series of smaller ones as well, as the S&P 500 was rising to record highs.



What is most important is that the retracements never breached the uptrend. However, in October what appeared to be a retracement became a reversal after the index did finally fall below the uptrend, leading to a sharp decline.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2021



Again, it is important to remember that a retracement is a minor or short-term pullback in the price of a stock or index. What is key is that the stock does not breach a critical level of support or resistance nor breach the uptrend or downtrend. Should the price fall below or rise above support or resistance, or violate an uptrend or downtrend, then it is no longer considered a retracement but a reversal.
What Is Retrocession?  

Retrocession refers to kickbacks, trailer fees or finders fees that asset managers pay to advisers or distributors. These payments are often done discreetly and are not disclosed to clients, although they use client funds to pay the fees.



Retrocession commission is a heavily criticized fee-sharing arrangement in the financial industry because money flows back to marketers for their efforts in raising interest for a particular product. Therefore, this raises the question of impartiality and favoritism on the part of the advisor. The system would seem to encourage advisors to promote funds or products because they will receive a fee for doing so, not because the products are the best option for the client.





Key Takeaways

Retrocession fees are kickbacks to wealth managers or other money managers that are provided by a third party.Retrocession commission is controversial in the financial world because money is going back to marketers for advocating specific products.Retrocession fees are typically recurring, with one-time kickbacks usually called a finder's fee, referral fee, or acquisition commission.Types of retrocession fees include custody banking, trading, and financial product purchases.


   Understanding Retrocession  

Retrocession fees are commissions paid to a wealth manager or other new money manager by a third party. For example, banks often pay retrocession fees to wealth managers who partner with them. The bank will encourage and compensate the managers for bringing business to the bank. Banks may also receive retrocession fees from third parties, such as investment funds, for distributing or promoting specific financial products.



Some consider retrocession fees a dubious compensation model because they can influence a bank or wealth manager’s decision to recommend products that may not be in the best interest of their clients. This suggestion of an investment product where the advisor receives retrocession appears inherently problematic. However, the suggested product is usually suited for the client, as they are mostly high-quality investment products, such as mutual funds. But the issue remains of motivation and agenda, when two roughly equal products are available, one with compensation attached and one without, where some advisors may find themselves unduly influenced.


   Types of Retrocession  

Retrocession fees typically refer to recurring compensations, as opposed to a one-time deal. A one-off payment is generally called a finder’s fee, referral fee or acquisition commission.



There are three types of retrocession fees:



Custody banking retrocession fees are where a wealth manager receives compensation for attracting a new customer who brings that customer's investment funds into the custody institution. With frequent changes in the service provider association, a wealth manager can generate retrocession fees that benefit them financially but do not necessarily benefit their client.
Trading retrocession fees are compensation for various trading transactions, such as buying and selling securities. The more sales that occur, the higher the retrocession fees become. Because most trades include a brokerage fee for the transaction, which the customer must pay, this again may benefit the money manager.
Financial product purchase retrocession fees are part of the recurring total expense ratio (TER), which customers must pay and are typical with investment funds. These recurring sums flow back to the client acquirer. Because the total expense ratio is charged to the customer each year, the acquirer receives retrocession fees every year as recurring commissions.


   Real World Example  

In 2015, JP Morgan settled a case with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for $267 million. The SEC stated that JP Morgan selected third-party hedge funds based on hedge fund managers' willingness to provide fees to a bank affiliate. In these instances, the bank did not inform clients it suggested and preferred the mutual funds willing to share their royalties and instead implied no particular partiality.﻿﻿ According to Forbes, the JP Morgan settlement was the first time the term retrocession was introduced to U.S. investors.
What Is a Return?  

A return, also known as a financial return, in its simplest terms, is the money made or lost on an investment over some period of time.



A return can be expressed nominally as the change in dollar value of an investment over time. A return can also be expressed as a percentage derived from the ratio of profit to investment. Returns can also be presented as net results (after fees, taxes, and inflation) or gross returns that do not account for anything but the price change. It even includes a 401(k) investment.





Key Takeaways

A return is the change in price of an asset, investment, or project over time, which may be represented in terms of price change or percentage change.A positive return represents a profit, while a negative return marks a loss.Returns are often annualized for comparison purposes, while a holding period return calculates the gain or loss during the entire period that an investment was held.The real return accounts for the effects of inflation and other external factors, while the nominal return is only interested in price change.The total return for stocks includes price change as well as dividend and interest payments.


   Understanding a Return  

Prudent investors know that a precise definition of return is situational and dependent on the financial data input to measure it. An omnibus term like “profit” could mean gross, operating, net, before tax, or after tax. An omnibus term like “investment” could mean selected, average, or total assets.



A holding period return is an investment’s return over the time that it is owned by a particular investor. Holding period return may be expressed nominally or as a percentage. When expressed as a percentage, the term often used is rate of return (RoR).



For example, the return earned during the periodic interval of a month is a monthly return and of a year is an annual return. Often, people are interested in the annual return of an investment, or year-over-year (YoY) return, which calculates the price change from today to that of the same date one year ago.



Returns over periodic intervals of different lengths can only be compared when they have been converted to same-length intervals. It is customary to compare returns earned during yearlong intervals. The process of converting shorter or longer return intervals to annual returns is called annualization.


   Nominal Return  

A nominal return is the net profit or loss of an investment expressed in the amount of dollars (or other applicable currency) before any adjustments for taxes, fees, dividends, inflation, or any other influence on the amount. It can be calculated by figuring the change in the value of the investment over a stated time period plus any distributions minus any outlays.



Distributions received by an investor depend on the type of investment or venture but may include dividends, interest, rents, rights, benefits, or other cash flows received by an investor. Outlays paid by an investor depend on the type of investment or venture but may include taxes, costs, fees, or expenditures paid by an investor to acquire, maintain, and sell an investment. 



For example, assume an investor buys $1,000 worth of publicly traded stock, receives no distributions, pays no outlays, and sells the stock two years later for $1,200. The nominal return in dollars is $1,200 - $1,000 = $200.






A positive return is the profit, or money made, on an investment or venture. Likewise, a negative return represents a loss, or money lost on an investment or venture.


   Real Return  

The real rate of return is adjusted for changes in prices due to inflation or other external factors. This method expresses the nominal rate of return in real terms, which keeps the purchasing power of a given level of capital constant over time.



Adjusting the nominal return to compensate for factors such as inflation allows you to determine how much of your nominal return is real return. Knowing the real rate of return of an investment is very important before investing your money. That’s because inflation can reduce the value as time goes on, just as taxes also chip away at it.



Investors should also consider whether the risk involved with a certain investment is something they can tolerate given the real rate of return. Expressing rates of return in real values rather than nominal values, particularly during periods of high inflation, offers a clearer picture of an investment’s value.






The total return for a stock includes both capital gains and losses and dividend income, while the nominal return for a stock depicts only its price change.


   Return Ratios  

Return ratios are a subset of financial ratios that measure how effectively an investment is being managed. They help to evaluate if the highest possible return is being generated on an investment. In general, return ratios compare the tools available to generate profit, such as the investment in assets or equity to net income.



Return ratios make this comparison by dividing selected or total assets or equity into net income. The result is a percentage of return per dollar invested that can be used to evaluate the strength of the investment by comparing it to benchmarks like the return ratios of similar investments, companies, industries, or markets. For instance, return of capital (ROC) means the recovery of the original investment.


  Return on Investment (ROI)  

A percentage return is a return expressed as a percentage. It is known as the return on investment (ROI). ROI is the return per dollar invested. ROI is calculated by dividing the dollar return by the initial dollar investment. This ratio is multiplied by 100 to get a percentage. Assuming a $200 return on a $1,000 investment, the percentage return or ROI is ($200 ÷ $1,000) × 100 = 20%.


  Return on Equity (ROE)  

Return on equity (ROE) is a profitability ratio calculated as net income divided by average shareholder’s equity that measures how much net income is generated per dollar of stock investment. If a company makes $10,000 in net income for the year and the average equity capital of the company over the same time period is $100,000, then the ROE is 10%.


  Return on Assets (ROA)  

Return on assets (ROA) is a profitability ratio calculated as net income divided by average total assets that measures how much net profit is generated for each dollar invested in assets. It determines financial leverage and whether enough is earned from asset use to cover the cost of capital. Net income divided by average total assets equals ROA. For example, if net income for the year is $10,000, and total average assets for the company over the same time period is equal to $100,000, then the ROA is $10,000 divided by $100,000, or 10%.


   Yield vs. Return  

Yield and return are sometimes used interchangeably in finance. However, depending on the context, they can also take on different meanings. In some such cases, yield is taken as a subset of return.



Yield, in the context of fixed income, for example, is the income generated by an investment, usually expressed as a percentage of the investment’s price or face value. For instance, a bond with a face value of $1,000 and an annual coupon (interest payment) of $50 would have a yield of 5%. Return, on the other hand, encompasses both the income generated by an investment and any capital gains or losses that result from changes in the investment’s market price.



Pay attention to the context within which these terms are being used to understand whether they refer to the same thing or something slightly different.




Is it possible to have a negative return?
Yes, negative returns are indicative of a loss, while positive returns show a gain.




What is risk-return tradeoff?
Investors require a higher expected return for riskier investments to compensate for that additional risk of loss. This is why low-risk securities, such as government bonds, carry relatively lower expected returns than higher-risk securities like growth stocks.




What are gross return and net return?
Gross return is the absolute change in price plus any income paid by the investment over some period of time. Net return takes the gross return and subtracts any commissions, management and other fees, and taxes. In other words, net return is what you are able to actually pocket from the investment. The so-called real return additionally accounts for the effects of inflation.




How does diversification impact returns?
Investing in a variety of different securities can help diversify a portfolio and potentially achieve a higher return without adding much additional risk. By spreading out investments across different sectors and asset classes that are not highly correlated, investors can minimize the risk of any single security negatively impacting returns. Indeed, the math shows that proper diversification can reduce a portfolio’s volatility while maintaining or potentially increasing its expected return.


   The Bottom Line  

Return is the gain or loss that an investment generates over a period of time. A positive return indicates a profit, while a negative return indicates a loss. The return on an investment is usually quoted as a percentage and includes any income that the investment generates (e.g., interest, dividends) as well as capital gains (price increases). To generate higher expected returns, investors usually need to take on more risk of potential losses.
What Is Return of Capital (ROC)?  

Return of capital (ROC) is a payment that an investor receives as a portion of their original investment and that is not considered income or capital gains from the investment. Note that a return of capital reduces an investor's adjusted cost basis. Once the stock's adjusted cost basis has been reduced to zero, any subsequent return will be taxable as a capital gain.





Key Takeaways

Return of capital (ROC) is a payment, or return, received from an investment that is not considered a taxable event and is not taxed as income.Capital is returned, for example, on retirement accounts and permanent life insurance policies; regular investment accounts return gains first.Investments are composed of a principal that should generate a return; this amount is the cost basis. Return of capital is the return of the principal only, and it is not any gain or any loss as a result of the investment












Investopedia / Jessica Olah






   How Return of Capital (ROC) Works  

When an individual invests, they put the principal to work in hopes of generating a return—an amount known as the cost basis. When the principal is returned to an investor, that is the return of capital. Since it does not include gains (or losses), it is not considered taxable—it is similar to getting your original money back.






Return of capital should not be confused with return on capital, where the latter is the return earned on invested capital (and is taxable).



Some types of investments allow investors to first receive their capital back before receiving gains (or losses) for tax purposes. Examples include qualified retirement accounts such as 401(k) plans or IRAs and cash accumulated from permanent life insurance policies. These products are examples of first-in-first-out (FIFO) because investors receive their first dollar back before touching gains.



Cost basis is defined as an investor’s total cost paid for an investment, and the cost basis for a stock is adjusted for stock dividends, stock splits, and the cost of commissions to purchase the stock. It is important for investors and financial advisors to track the cost basis of each investment so that any return of capital payments can be identified.



When an investor buys an investment and sells it for a gain, the taxpayer must report the capital gain on a personal tax return, and the sale price less the investment’s cost basis is the capital gain on the sale. If an investor receives an amount that is less than or equal to the cost basis, the payment is a return of capital and not a capital gain.






Some dividends from real estate investment trusts (REITs) are considered a return of capital, since investors get their invested funds back. Although they are not taxed, these dividends reduce the cost basis in a REIT investment.


   Example of Stock Splits and Return of Capital  

Assume, for example, that an investor buys 100 shares of XYZ common stock at $20 per share, and the stock has a 2-for-1 stock split so that the investor’s adjusted holdings total 200 shares at $10 per share. If the investor sells the shares for $15, the first $10 is considered a return of capital and is not taxed. The additional $5 per share is a capital gain and is reported on the personal tax return.


   Factoring in Partnership Return of Capital  

A partnership is defined as a business in which two or more people contribute assets and operate an entity to share in the profits. The parties create a partnership using a partnership agreement. Calculating the return of capital for a partnership can be difficult.



A partner’s interest in an entity is tracked in the partner’s capital account, and the account is increased by any cash or assets contributed by the partner along with the partner’s share of profits. The partner’s interest is reduced by any withdrawals or guaranteed payments and by the partner’s share of partnership losses. Withdrawal up to the partner’s capital account balance is considered a return of capital and is not a taxable event.



Once the entire capital account balance is paid to the partner, however, any additional payments are considered income to the partner and are taxed on the partner’s personal tax return.




What Is the Difference Between Capital Dividends and Regular Dividends?
Return of capital is also called capital dividend. The term refers to a payment that a company makes to its investors and that is drawn from its paid-in-capital or shareholders' equity. By contrast, regular dividends are paid from the company's earnings.




How Is Return of Capital Taxed?
Return of capital distributions are not subject to tax. However, once the adjusted costbasis of the stock is reduced to zero, any non-dividend distributions are considered to be a taxable capital gain.




What Is the Difference Between Return on Capital and Return of Capital?
Return on Capital is the annual return you earn from an initial investment, and it's taxable. Return of Capital is the rate at which an initial investment can be recouped.


   The Bottom Line  

When an investor receives a return of capital, they are getting back some or all of their investments in a stock or fund back. 



Return of capital can be easily confused with dividends, but these two types of distributions function differently. Return of capital distributions are taken from its paid-in-capital or shareholders' equity, whereas dividends are paid from the company's earnings.



Return of capital distributions aren't taxable, but they can have tax implications because they might produce additional realized capital gains.
What Is Return on Assets (ROA)?  

The term return on assets (ROA) refers to a financial ratio that indicates how profitable a company is in relation to its total assets. Corporate management, analysts, and investors can use ROA to determine how efficiently a company uses its assets to generate a profit.



The metric is commonly expressed as a percentage by using a company's net income and its average assets. A higher ROA means a company is more efficient and productive at managing its balance sheet to generate profits while a lower ROA indicates there is room for improvement.





Key Takeaways

Return on assets is a metric that indicates a company's profitability in relation to its total assets.ROA can be used by management, analysts, and investors to determine whether a company uses its assets efficiently to generate a profit.You can calculate a company's ROA by dividing its net income by its total assets.It's always best to compare the ROA of companies within the same industry because they'll share the same asset base. ROA factors in a company's debt while return on equity does not. 












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Return on Assets (ROA)  

Businesses are about efficiency. Comparing profits to revenue is a useful operational metric, but comparing them to the resources a company used to earn them displays the feasibility of that company's existence. Return on assets is the simplest of such corporate bang-for-the-buck measures. It tells you what earnings are generated from invested capital or assets.



ROA for public companies can vary substantially and are highly dependent on the industry in which they function so the ROA for a tech company won't necessarily correspond to that of a food and beverage company. This is why when using ROA as a comparative measure, it is best to compare it against a company's previous ROA numbers or a similar company's ROA.



The ROA figure gives investors an idea of how effective the company is in converting the money it invests into net income. The higher the ROA number, the better, because the company is able to earn more money with a smaller investment. Put simply, a higher ROA means more asset efficiency.



ROA is calculated by dividing a company’s net income by its total assets. As a formula, it's expressed as:








R


e


t


u


r


n


 


o


n


 


A


s


s


e


t


s


=




N


e


t


 


I


n


c


o


m


e




T


o


t


a


l


 


A


s


s


e


t


s





Return\ on\ Assets = \frac{Net\ Income}{Total\ Assets}


Return on Assets=Total AssetsNet Income​



For example, pretend Sam and Milan both start hot dog stands. Sam spends $1,500 on a bare-bones metal cart, while Milan spends $15,000 on a zombie apocalypse-themed unit, complete with costume.



Let's assume that those were the only assets each firm deployed. If over some given period, Sam earned $150 and Milan earned $1,200, Milan would have the more valuable business but Sam would have the more efficient one. Using the above formula, we see Sam’s simplified ROA is $150 / $1,500 = 10%, while Milan's simplified ROA is $1,200/$15,000 = 8%.


   Special Considerations  

Because of the balance sheet accounting equation, note that total assets are also the sum of its total liabilities and shareholder equity. Both types of financing are used to fund a company's operations. Since a company's assets are either funded by debt or equity, some analysts and investors disregard the cost of acquiring the asset by adding back interest expense in the formula for ROA.



In other words, the impact of taking more debt is negated by adding back the cost of borrowing to the net income and using the average assets in a given period as the denominator. Interest expense is added because the net income amount on the income statement excludes interest expense.






ROA shouldn't be the only determining factor when it comes to making your investment decisions. In fact, it's just one of the many metrics available to evaluate a company's profitability.


   Return on Assets (ROA) vs. Return on Equity (ROE)  

Both ROA and return on equity (ROE) measure how well a company utilizes its resources. But one of the key differences between the two is how they each treat a company's debt. ROA factors in how leveraged a company is or how much debt it carries. After all, its total assets include any capital it borrows to run its operations.



On the other hand, ROE only measures the return on a company’s equity, which leaves out its liabilities. Thus, ROA accounts for a company’s debt and ROE does not. The more leverage and debt a company takes on, the higher ROE will be relative to ROA. Thus, as a company takes on more debt, its ROE would be higher than its ROA.



Assuming returns are constant, assets are now higher than equity and the denominator of the return on assets calculation is higher because assets are higher. This means that a company's ROA falls while its ROE stays at its previous level.


   Limitations of ROA  

As noted above, one of the biggest issues with ROA is that it can't be used across industries. That’s because companies in one industry have different asset bases than those in another. So the asset bases of companies within the oil and gas industry aren't the same as those in the retail industry.



Some analysts also feel that the basic ROA formula is limited in its applications, being most suitable for banks. Bank balance sheets better represent the real value of their assets and liabilities because they’re carried at market value via mark-to-market accounting (or at least an estimate of market value) versus historical cost. Both interest expense and interest income are already factored into the equation.



For non-financial companies, debt and equity capital are strictly segregated, as are the returns to each:



Interest expense is the return for debt providersNet income is the return for equity investors



So the common ROA formula jumbles things up by comparing returns to equity investors (net income) with assets funded by both debt and equity investors (total assets). Two variations on this ROA formula fix this numerator-denominator inconsistency by putting interest expense (net of taxes) back into the numerator. So the formulas would be:



ROA Variation 1: Net Income + [Interest Expense x (1 - Tax Rate)] / Total AssetsROA Variation 2: Operating Income x (1 - Tax Rate) / Total Assets






The St. Louis Federal Reserve provided data on U.S. bank ROAs, which generally hovered under 1.4% between 1984 and 2020 when it was discontinued.


   Example of ROA  

Remember that ROA is most useful for comparing companies in the same industry, as different industries use assets differently. For example, the ROA for service-oriented firms, such as banks, will be significantly higher than the ROA for capital-intensive companies, such as construction or utility companies.



Let's evaluate the ROA for three companies in the retail industry:



Macy's (M)
Kohl’s (KSS)
Dillard's (DDS)



The data in the table is for the trailing 12 months (TTM) as of Feb. 13, 2019.











Retail Sector Stocks


Company
Net Income
Total Assets
ROA




Macy's
$1.7 billion
$20.4 billion
8.3%


Kohl's
$996 million
$14.1 billion
7.1%


Dillard's
$243 million
$3.9 billion
6.2%






Every dollar that Macy's invested in assets generated 8.3 cents of net income. Macy's was better at converting its investment into profits, compared with Kohl’s and Dillard’s. One of management's most important jobs is to make wise choices in allocating its resources, and it appears Macy’s management, in the reported period, was more adept than its two peers.




How Is ROA Used by Investors?
Investors can use ROA to find stock opportunities because the ROA shows how efficient a company is at using its assets to generate profits.A ROA that rises over time indicates the company is doing well at increasing its profits with each investment dollar it spends. A falling ROA indicates the company might have over-invested in assets that have failed to produce revenue growth, a sign the company may be in some trouble. ROA can also be used to make apples-to-apples comparisons across companies in the same sector or industry.




How Can I Calculate a Company's ROA?
ROA is calculated by dividing a firm's net income by the average of its total assets. It is then expressed as a percentage.Net profit can be found at the bottom of a company's income statement, and assets are found on its balance sheet. Average total assets are used in calculating ROA because a company's asset total can vary over time due to the purchase or sale of vehicles, land, equipment, inventory changes, or seasonal sales fluctuations. As a result, calculating the average total assets for the period in question is more accurate than the total assets for one period.




What Is Considered a Good ROA?
A ROA of over 5% is generally considered good and over 20% excellent. However, ROAs should always be compared amongst firms in the same sector. For instance, a software maker has far fewer assets on the balance sheet than a car maker. As a result, the software company's assets will be understated and its ROA may get a questionable boost.
What Is Return on Average Assets (ROAA)?  

Return on average assets (ROAA) is an indicator used to assess the profitability of a firm's assets, and it is most often used by banks and other financial institutions as a means to gauge financial performance. Sometimes, ROAA is used interchangeably with return on assets (ROA) although the latter often uses current assets instead of average assets.





Key Takeaways

Return on average assets (ROAA) shows how well a company uses its assets to generate profits and works best when comparing to similar companies in the same industry.ROAA formula uses average assets to capture any significant changes in asset balances over the period being analyzed.Companies that invest heavily upfront into equipment and other assets typically have a lower ROAA.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Return on Average Assets (ROAA)  

Return on average assets (ROAA) shows how efficiently a company is utilizing its assets and is also useful when assessing peer companies in the same industry. Unlike return on equity, which measures the return on invested and retained dollars, ROAA measures the return on the assets purchased using those dollars.



The ROAA result varies greatly depending on the type of industry, and companies that invest a large amount of money up front into equipment and other assets will have a lower ROAA. A ratio result of 5% or better is generally considered good.



The ratio shows how well a firm's assets are being used to generate profits. ROAA is calculated by taking net income and dividing it by average total assets. The final ratio is expressed as a percentage of total average assets. The formula is:


















R


O


A


A


=



Net Income


Average Total Assets

















where:
















Net Income


=


Net income for the same period as assets
















Average Assets


=


(


Beginning


+


Ending Assets


)


/


2







\begin{aligned} &ROAA=\frac{\text{Net Income}}{\text{Average Total Assets}}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{Net Income} = \text{Net income for the same period as assets}\\ &\text{Average Assets} = (\text{Beginning} + \text{Ending Assets}) / 2 \end{aligned}


​ROAA=Average Total AssetsNet Income​where:Net Income=Net income for the same period as assetsAverage Assets=(Beginning+Ending Assets)/2​



Net income is found on the income statement, which provides an overview of a company's performance during a given time period. Analysts can look to the balance sheet to find assets. Unlike the income statement, which shows growing balances through the year, the balance sheet is only a snapshot in time. It does not provide an overview of changes made over a certain time period, but at the end of the time period.



To arrive at a more accurate measure of return on assets, analysts like to take the average of the asset balances from the beginning and end of the same period that was used to define net income.






Analysts often use average assets because it takes into consideration balance fluctuations throughout the year and provides a more accurate measure of asset efficiency over a given time period.


   ROAA Example  

Assume that Company A has $1,000 in net income at the end of Year 2. An analyst will take the asset balance from the firm's balance sheet at the end of Year 1, and average it with the assets at the end of Year 2 for the ROAA calculation.



The firm's assets at the end of Year 1 are $5,000, and they increase to $15,000 by the end of Year 2. The average assets between Year 1 and Year 2 is ($5,000+$15,000)/2 = $10,000. The ROAA is then calculated by taking the company's $1,000 net income and dividing it by $10,000 to arrive at the answer of 10%.



If the return on assets is calculated using assets from only the end of Year 1, the return is 20%, because the company is making more income on fewer assets. However, if the analyst calculates return on assets using only the assets measured at the end of Year 2, the answer is 6%, because the company is making less income with more assets.




How does ROAA differ from ROA?
If return on assets (ROA) uses average assets, then ROA and ROAA will be identical. If, however, an analyst uses only beginning or ending assets (as opposed to the average), then ROAA will provide a more accurate picture since average assets will smooth out changes or volatility in assets over an accounting period.




What are average assets?
A company's balance sheet will often report the average level or value of assets held over an accounting period, such as a quarter or fiscal year. It is often calculated as beginning assets less ending assets divided by two. This is done because on any given day, a firm's actual level of assets will fluctuate in the course of doing business. The average, therefore, provides a better metric.




How does ROAA differ return on total assets (ROTA)?
ROAA is similar to ROTA, however ROAA uses net income in the numerator, whereas ROTA uses EBIT (earnings before income and taxes) in the numerator. Both use average total assets in the denominator.
What Is Return on Average Capital Employed – ROACE?  

The return on average capital employed (ROACE) is a financial ratio that shows profitability versus the investments a company has made in itself. This metric differs from the related return on capital employed (ROCE) calculation, in that it takes the averages of the opening and closing capital for a period of time, as opposed to only the capital figure at the end of the period.


   The Formula for ROACE Is  

﻿















ROACE


=




EBIT




Average Total Assets


−


L


















where:
















EBIT


=


Earnings before interest and taxes
















L


=


Average current liabilities








\begin{aligned} &\text{ROACE} = \frac{ \text{EBIT} }{ \text{Average Total Assets} - \text{L} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{EBIT} = \text{Earnings before interest and taxes} \\ &\text{L} = \text{Average current liabilities} \\ \end{aligned}


​ROACE=Average Total Assets−LEBIT​where:EBIT=Earnings before interest and taxesL=Average current liabilities​﻿


   What Does Return on Average Capital Employed Tell You?  

Return on average capital employed (ROACE) is a useful ratio when analyzing businesses in capital-intensive industries, such as oil. Businesses that can squeeze higher profits from a smaller amount of capital assets will have a higher ROACE than businesses that are not as efficient in converting capital into profit. The formula for the ratio uses EBIT in the numerator and divides that by average total assets less average current liabilities.



Fundamental analysts and investors like to use the ROACE metrics since it compares the company's profitability to the total investments made in new capital.






The return on average capital employed (ROACE) is a financial ratio that shows profitability versus the investments a company has made in itself.Fundamental analysts and investors like to use the ROACE metrics since it compares the company's profitability to the total investments made in new capital.ROACE differs from the ROCE since it accounts for the averages of assets and liabilities.


   Example of How ROACE Is Used  

As a hypothetical example of how to calculate ROACE, assume that a company begins the year with $500,000 is assets and $200,000 in liabilities. It ends the year with $550,000 in assets and the same $200,000 in liabilities. During the course of the year, the company earned $150,000 of revenue and had $90,000 of total operating expenses. Step one is to calculate the EBIT:



﻿















EBIT


=


R


−


O


=


$


1


5


0


,


0


0


0


−


$


9


0


,


0


0


0


=


$


6


0


,


0


0


0
















where:
















R


=


Revenue
















O


=


Operating expenses








\begin{aligned} &\text{EBIT} = \text{R} - \text{O} = \$150,000 - \$90,000 = \$60,000 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{R} = \text{Revenue} \\ &\text{O} = \text{Operating expenses} \\ \end{aligned}


​EBIT=R−O=$150,000−$90,000=$60,000where:R=RevenueO=Operating expenses​﻿



The second step is to calculate the average capital employed. This is equal to the average of the total assets minus the liabilities at the beginning of the year and the end of the year:



﻿















CB


=


$


5


0


0


,


0


0


0


−


$


2


0


0


,


0


0


0


=


$


3


0


0


,


0


0


0
















where:
















CB


=


Capital employed beginning of year








\begin{aligned} &\text{CB} = \$500,000 - \$200,000 = \$300,000 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{CB} = \text{Capital employed beginning of year} \\ \end{aligned}


​CB=$500,000−$200,000=$300,000where:CB=Capital employed beginning of year​﻿



﻿















CE


=


$


5


5


0


,


0


0


0


−


$


2


0


0


,


0


0


0


=


$


3


5


0


,


0


0


0
















where:
















CE


=


Capital employed end of year








\begin{aligned} &\text{CE} = \$550,000 - \$200,000 = \$350,000 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{CE} = \text{Capital employed end of year} \\ \end{aligned}


​CE=$550,000−$200,000=$350,000where:CE=Capital employed end of year​﻿



﻿















AC


=




$


3


0


0


,


0


0


0


+


$


3


5


0


,


0


0


0




2




=


$


3


2


5


,


0


0


0
















where:
















AC


=


Average capital employed








\begin{aligned} &\text{AC} = \frac{ \$300,000 + \$350,000 }{ 2 } = \$325,000 \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{AC} = \text{Average capital employed} \\ \end{aligned}


​AC=2$300,000+$350,000​=$325,000where:AC=Average capital employed​﻿



Lastly, by dividing the EBIT by the average capital employed, the ROACE is determined:



﻿















ROACE


=




$


6


0


,


0


0


0




$


3


2


5


,


0


0


0




=


1


8


.


4


6


%








\begin{aligned} &\text{ROACE} = \frac{ \$60,000 }{ \$325,000 } = 18.46\% \\ \end{aligned}


​ROACE=$325,000$60,000​=18.46%​﻿


   The Difference Between ROACE and ROCE  

Return on capital employed (ROCE) is a closely-related financial ratio that also measures a company's profitability and the efficiency with which its capital is employed. ROCE is calculated as follows:



﻿















ROCE


=




EBIT




Capital Employed










\begin{aligned} &\text{ROCE} = \frac{ \text{EBIT} }{ \text{Capital Employed} } \\ \end{aligned}


​ROCE=Capital EmployedEBIT​​﻿



Capital employed, also known as funds employed, is the total amount of capital used for the acquisition of profits by a firm or project. It is the value of all the assets employed in a business or business unit and can be calculated by subtracting current liabilities from total assets. ROACE, on the other hand, uses average assets and liabilities. Averaging for a period smooths the figures to remove the effect of outlier situations, such as seasonal spikes or declines in business activity.


   Limitations of ROACE  

Investors should be careful when using the ratio, since capital assets, such as a refinery, can be depreciated over time. If the same amount of profit is made from an asset each period, the asset depreciating will make ROACE increase because it is less valuable. This makes it look as if the company is making good use of capital, though, in reality, it is not making any additional investments.
What Is Return on Average Equity (ROAE)?  

Return on average equity (ROAE) is a financial ratio that measures the performance of a company based on its average shareholders' equity outstanding. Typically, ROAE refers to a company's performance over a fiscal year, so the ROAE numerator is net income and the denominator is computed as the sum of the equity value at the beginning and end of the year, divided by 2.



Return on average equity differs from the more common Return on Equity (ROE), which measures net income for the year divided by the amount of shareholder equity at the end of the year, which can be subject to stocks sales, dividend payments, and other share dilutions.





Key Takeaways


A high ROAE means a company is creating more income for each dollar of stockholders' equity. 
ROAE also reveals how a company is making its money, whether through profitability, debt accumulation, or asset sales, for example. 
To discern actual profitability, profit margin is calculated by dividing net income by sales. 
The average asset turnover is a measure of asset efficiency and is calculated by dividing sales by the average total assets. 
The financial leverage, measured as the average assets divided by the average stockholders' equity, is a measure of the firm's debt level.



   The Basics of Return On Average Equity (ROAE)  

The return on equity (ROE), a determinant of performance, is calculated by dividing net income by the ending shareholders' equity value in the balance sheet. This equity value can include last-minute stock sales, share buybacks, and dividend payments. This means that ROE may not accurately reflect a business' actual return over a period of time.



The return on average equity (ROAE) can give a more accurate depiction of a company's corporate profitability, especially if the value of the shareholders' equity has changed considerably during a fiscal year. ROAE is an adjusted version of the return on equity (ROE) measure of company profitability, in which the denominator, shareholders' equity, is changed to average shareholders' equity. Basically, instead of dividing net income by stockholders' equity, an analyst divides net income by the sum of the equity value at the beginning and end of the year, divided by 2.



Net income is found on the income statement in the annual report. Stockholders' equity is found at the bottom of the balance sheet in the annual report. The income statement captures transactions from the entire year, whereas the balance sheet is a snapshot in time. As a result, analysts divide net income by an average of the beginning and end of the time period for balance sheet line items. If a business rarely experiences significant changes in its shareholders' equity, it is probably not necessary to use an average equity figure in the denominator of the calculation.



In situations where the shareholders' equity does not change or changes by very little during a fiscal year, the ROE and ROAE numbers should be identical, or at least similar.


   An Example of ROAE  

The key equation is: ROAE= Net Income/ Average Stockholders’ Equity



For example, Company XYZ starts out last year with $1,000,000 in shareholder equity and finishes the next year with $ 1,500,000 in shareholder equity, due to investments from investors, leaving them with an average shareholder equity value of $1,250,000 for the year. These figures can be found from the balance sheet of the last year and the end of the current year. During the current year, XYZ earns $200,000 in net income (found on the income statement for the end of the current year). Using the ROAE equation: Net income/ (Prior year shareholder equity + Current year shareholder value / 2), the result is $200,000/1,250,000= 16% gain.



Investors will want to compare ROE’s and ROAE’s between companies in similar sectors to see which are most profitable and efficient based on shareholder equity. If company XYZ is muddling along with a sub-10% ROAE and company ABC is turning in a +20% ROAE, investors will have a better understanding of where their investments are likely to perform better.
What Is Return on Capital Employed (ROCE)?  

The term return on capital employed (ROCE) refers to a financial ratio that can be used to assess a company's profitability and capital efficiency. In other words, this ratio can help to understand how well a company is generating profits from its capital as it is put to use. ROCE is one of several profitability ratios financial managers, stakeholders, and potential investors may use when analyzing a company for investment.





Key Takeaways

Return on capital employed is a financial ratio that measures a company’s profitability in terms of all of its capital.ROCE is similar to return on invested capital.It's always a good idea to compare the ROCE of companies in the same industry as those from differing industries usually vary.Higher ratios tend to indicate that companies are profitable.Many companies may calculate the following key return ratios in their performance analysis: return on equity, return on assets, return on invested capital, and return on capital employed.


   Understanding Return on Capital Employed (ROCE)  

Return on capital employed can be especially useful when comparing the performance of companies in capital-intensive sectors, such as utilities and telecoms. This is because, unlike other fundamentals such as return on equity (ROE), which only analyzes profitability related to a company’s shareholders’ equity, ROCE considers debt and equity. This can help neutralize financial performance analysis for companies with significant debt.



Ultimately, the calculation of ROCE tells you the amount of profit a company is generating per $1 of capital employed. The more profit per $1 a company can generate, the better. Thus, a higher ROCE indicates stronger profitability across company comparisons.



For a company, the ROCE trend over the years can also be an important indicator of performance. Investors tend to favor companies with stable and rising ROCE levels over companies where ROCE is volatile or trending lower.



ROCE is one of several profitability ratios that can be used when analyzing a company’s financial statements for profitability performance. Other ratios can include the following:



ROE
Return on assets (ROA)
Return on invested capital (ROIC)






Return on capital employed is also commonly referred to as the primary ratio because it indicates the profits earned on corporate resources.


   How to Calculate ROCE  

The formula for ROCE is as follows:


















ROCE


=



EBIT


Capital Employed

















where:
















EBIT


=


Earnings before interest and tax
















Capital Employed


=


Total assets 


−


 Current liabilities







\begin{aligned} &\text{ROCE} = \frac{ \text{EBIT} }{ \text{Capital Employed} } \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{EBIT} = \text{Earnings before interest and tax} \\ &\text{Capital Employed} = \text{Total assets } - \text{ Current liabilities} \\ \end{aligned}


​ROCE=Capital EmployedEBIT​where:EBIT=Earnings before interest and taxCapital Employed=Total assets − Current liabilities​



ROCE is a metric for analyzing profitability and for comparing profitability levels across companies in terms of capital. Two components are required to calculate ROCE. These are earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) and capital employed.



Also known as operating income, EBIT shows how much a company earns from its operations alone without interest on debt or taxes. It is calculated by subtracting the cost of goods sold (COGS) and operating expenses from revenues.



Capital employed is very similar to invested capital, which is used in the ROIC calculation. Capital employed is found by subtracting current liabilities from total assets, which ultimately gives you shareholders’ equity plus long-term debts. Instead of using capital employed at an arbitrary point in time, some analysts and investors may choose to calculate ROCE based on the average capital employed, which takes the average of opening and closing capital employed for the time period under analysis.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of ROCE  
  Pros of ROCE  

There are various reasons why companies should track ROCE. ROCE provides a comprehensive measure of a company's overall performance by considering both profitability and capital efficiency. It helps assess the effectiveness of capital allocation decisions and the ability to generate returns on invested capital. Therefore, ROCE allows for meaningful comparisons between companies operating in different industries and highlights a company's ability to generate profits from the capital it employs.



ROCE is an important metric for investors as it reflects the company's ability to generate returns on their investment. A consistently high ROCE indicates that the company is generating attractive returns, which can instill confidence in investors and potentially attract more capital.



ROCE also serves as a useful management tool for assessing the performance of different business units or projects within a company. It helps identify areas where capital may be tied up inefficiently and allows for better decision-making regarding resource allocation and investment strategies. More specifically, ROCE provides a long-term perspective on a company's profitability and efficiency. It considers the profitability generated over an extended period and relates it to the capital employed.


  Cons of ROCE  

There are also many downsides to ROCE, each of which users must be aware of when analyzing ROCE calculations. Due to differences in capital intensity and business structures, ROCE may not be directly comparable across sectors. ROCE also primarily concentrates on profitability and capital efficiency, but it leaves out other crucial elements of financial performance including revenue growth, margins, the creation of cash flow, and return on equity.



Since ROCE is based on past financial data, it could not accurately reflect current market circumstances or growth possibilities. It is a reflection of previous capital investments' success and may not be a reliable predictor of future profitability or the potential effects of new investments. In addition, the effect of a company's capital structure, such as debt or equity financing, is not taken into account by ROCE.



ROCE is susceptible to manipulation through financial engineering and accounting techniques, just like any other financial indicator. It also may not take into account changes in the industry as a whole, changes in the economy, or other variables that may have an influence on a company's performance. Last, relying entirely on ROCE might result in a limited viewpoint and an inadequate evaluation of a company's current situation and future prospects.





Pros

Performance evaluation combining profitability and efficiency
Helps identify inefficient capital utilization
Boosts investor confidence in returns
Measures capital efficiency and allocation
Comparability across industries



Cons

Limited comparability across diverse industries
Historical focus may not reflect future prospects
Ignores the impact of capital structure
Does not capture complete financial performance
Susceptible to manipulation and accounting practices





   How Companies Can Improve ROCE  

Improving ROCE requires a strategic approach that focuses on enhancing profitability and capital efficiency. Companies can achieve this by streamlining operations, optimizing capital allocation, and continuous monitoring and evaluation. Operational efficiency involves streamlining and optimizing operations to reduce costs, improve productivity, and increase profitability. Companies often do this by enacting lean practices, automation, and process improvements. These solutions can eliminate waste and enhance efficiency.



Effective capital allocation also involves evaluating and prioritizing capital investment decisions. Companies can focus on projects with high potential returns and aligning investments with the company's strategic objectives. This also means prioritizing working capital management towards inventory, receivables, and payables, reducing inventory carrying costs and shortening receivables collection periods related to the most profitable projects.



Asset optimization also involves optimizing asset utilization to generate maximum returns. For example, companies can renegotiate leases, sell underutilized or non-performing assets, renegotiating leases and contracts, and exploring shared asset models. ROCE is improved when fewer capital is deployed; by avoiding unnecessary carrying costs or long-term investment expenses, companies can improve the returns it incurs.



Last, pricing and margins should be reviewed. Sales and revenue growth strategies should focus on expanding market share, developing innovative products, and strengthening customer relationships. Talent and skills development should be invested in employee training and development programs, while risk management should be mitigated to minimize negative impacts on ROCE. All of these solutions focus more on scaling the "return" aspect of ROCE.



It should go without saying that continuous monitoring and evaluation should be conducted to track progress and identify areas for improvement. Companies should tailor their strategies based on their specific industry, competitive landscape, and internal capabilities to achieve sustainable improvements in ROCE. As companies enact strategies to improve ROCE, it must be aware of unrelated repercussions that may have negative impacts elsewhere.


   ROCE and Business Cycles  

In many ways, ROCE is tied to changes during different economic cycles:



Expansionary Phase: Businesses frequently encounter rising demand, escalating sales, and advantageous market circumstances during an economic expansion. As a result, ROCE may increase as businesses enjoy more revenues, enhanced profitability, and effective capital allocation. Enhanced operating leverage and economies of scale may result in an increase in ROCE during rapid economic growth.
Peak Phase: Growth rates may start to decline and competition may pick up during the peak phase of an economic cycle. Although businesses may continue to make strong profits, ROCE may suffer if growth is sluggish. High levels of efficiency and profitability may be difficult for businesses to sustain, and ROCE may stabilize or slightly drop.
Contraction Phase: Businesses frequently experience diminishing demand, decreased sales, and economic difficulties during an economic downturn or recession. Because of rising cost pressures and declining revenues, profit margins may be affected. As businesses fight to maintain profitability and capital efficiency, ROCE tends to fall under such situations.
Recovery Phase: As the economy begins to come out of a recession, companies may notice a slow but steady increase in demand and sales. Profitability may increase for businesses that control expenses well and adjust to shifting market conditions. As the economy starts to pick up steam and businesses get their footing, ROCE may begin to recover during this period.
Early Growth Phase: Businesses may see a rebound in growth potential and investment prospects in the early phases of an economic recovery. As businesses engage in new initiatives, grow their businesses, and take advantage of changing market trends, ROCE may fluctuate greatly depending on how well these ventures do. Due to greater capital costs, ROCE may be lower at first, but if investments are effective, it can rise with time.


   Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) vs. Return on Invested Capital (ROIC)  

When analyzing profitability efficiency in terms of capital, both ROIC and ROCE can be used. Both metrics are similar in that they provide a measure of profitability per total capital of the firm. In general, both the ROIC and ROCE should be higher than a company’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC) in order for the company to be profitable in the long term.



ROIC is generally based on the same concept as ROCE, but its components are slightly different. The calculation for ROIC is as follows:



Net Operating Profit After Tax ÷ Invested Capital



Net operating profit after tax is a measure of EBIT x (1 – tax rate). This takes into consideration a company’s tax obligations, but ROCE usually does not.



Invested capital in the ROIC calculation is slightly more complex than the simple calculation for capital employed used in ROCE. Invested capital may be either:



Net Working Capital + Property Plant and Equipment (PP&E) + Goodwill and Intangibles



or



Total Debt and Leases + Total Equity and Equity Equivalents + Non-Operating Cash and Investments



The invested capital is generally a more detailed analysis of a firm’s overall capital.


   Example of ROCE  

Consider two companies that operate in the same industry: ACE Corp. and Sam & Co. The table below shows a hypothetical ROCE analysis of both companies.











(in millions)
ACE Corp.
Sam & Co.
 


Sales
$15,195
$65,058
 


EBIT
$3,837
$13,955
 


Total Assets
$12,123
$120,406
 


Current Liabilities
$3,305
$30,210
 


Capital Employed
$8,818
$90,196
TA - CL


Return on Capital Employed
0.4351
0.1547
EBIT/Capital Employed






As you can see, Sam & Co. is a much larger business than ACE Corp., with higher revenue, EBIT, and total assets. However, when using the ROCE metric, you can see that ACE Corp. is more efficiently generating profit from its capital than Sam & Co. ACE ROCE is 44 cents per capital dollar or 43.51% vs. 15 cents per capital dollar for Sam & Co., or 15.47%.




What Does It Mean for Capital to Be Employed?
Businesses use their capital to conduct day-to-day operations, invest in new opportunities, and grow. Capital employed refers to a company's total assets less its current liabilities. Looking at capital employed is helpful since it's used with other financial metrics to determine the return on a company's assets and how effective management is at employing capital.




Why Is ROCE Useful If We Already Have ROE and ROA Measures?
Some analysts prefer ROCE over return on equity and return on assets because the return on capital considers both debt and equity financing. These investors believe the return on capital is a better gauge for the performance or profitability of a company over a more extended period of time.




How Is Return on Capital Employed Calculated?
Return on capital employed is calculated by dividing net operating profit, or earnings before interest and taxes, by capital employed. Another way to calculate it is by dividing earnings before interest and taxes by the difference between total assets and current liabilities.




What Is a Good ROCE Value?
While there is no industry standard, a higher return on capital employed suggests a more efficient company, at least in terms of capital employment. However, a lower number may also be indicative of a company with a lot of cash on hand since cash is included in total assets. As a result, high levels of cash can sometimes skew this metric.




What Is a Good Percentage for Return on Capital Employed?
The general rule about ROCE is the higher the ratio, the better. That's because it is a measure of profitability. A ROCE of at least 20% is usually a good sign that the company is in a good financial position. But keep in mind that you shouldn't compare the ROCE ratios of companies in different industries. As with any financial metric, it's best to do an apples-to-apples comparison.


   The Bottom Line  

There are a number of different financial metrics that help analysts and investors review the financial health and well-being of different companies. You can use a company's return on capital employed to determine how profitable it is and how efficiently it uses its capital. You can easily calculate it using figures from corporate financial statements. But be sure to compare the ROCE of companies within the same industry as those from different sectors tend to have varying ratios. But it's generally a given that having a ratio of 20% or more means that a company is doing well.
What Is Return on Equity (ROE)?  

Return on equity (ROE) is a measure of financial performance calculated by dividing net income by shareholders' equity. Because shareholders' equity is equal to a company’s assets minus its debt, ROE is considered the return on net assets.



ROE is considered a gauge of a corporation's profitability and how efficient it is in generating profits. The higher the ROE, the more efficient a company's management is at generating income and growth from its equity financing.





Key Takeaways

Return on equity (ROE) is the measure of a company's net income divided by its shareholders' equity.ROE is a gauge of a corporation's profitability and how efficiently it generates those profits.The higher the ROE, the better a company is at converting its equity financing into profits.To calculate ROE, divide net income by the value of shareholders' equity.ROEs will vary based on the industry or sector in which the company operates.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen



ROE is expressed as a percentage and can be calculated for any company if net income and equity are both positive numbers. Net income is calculated before dividends paid to common shareholders and after dividends to preferred shareholders and interest to lenders.















Return on Equity


=



Net Income


Average Shareholders’ Equity








\begin{aligned} &\text{Return on Equity} = \dfrac{\text{Net Income}}{\text{Average Shareholders' Equity}}\\ \end{aligned}


​Return on Equity=Average Shareholders’ EquityNet Income​​
Net income is the amount of income, net expenses, and taxes that a company generates for a given period. Average shareholders' equity is calculated by adding equity at the beginning of the period. The beginning and end of the period should coincide with the period during which the net income is earned.
Net income over the last full fiscal year, or trailing 12 months, is found on the income statement—a sum of financial activity over that period. Shareholders' equity comes from the balance sheet—a running balance of a company’s entire history of changes in assets and liabilities.
It is considered best practice to calculate ROE based on average equity over a period because of the mismatch between the income statement and the balance sheet.


   Calculating Return on Equity (ROE)  

ROE is calculated by comparing the proportion of net income against the amount of shareholder equity. It is calculated as:



ROE = Net Income / Shareholders' Equity



Net income is calculated as the difference between net revenue and all expenses including interest and taxes. It is the most conservative measurement for a company to analyze as it deducts more expenses than other profitability measurements such as gross income or operating income.



Because net income is earned over a period of time and shareholders' equity is a balance sheet account often reporting on a single specific period, an analyst should take an average equity balance. This is often done by taking the average between the beginning balance and ending balance of equity.


   What Return on Equity Tells You  

Whether an ROE is deemed good or bad will depend on what is normal among a stock’s peers. For example, utilities have many assets and debt on the balance sheet compared to a relatively small amount of net income. A normal ROE in the utility sector could be 10% or less. A technology or retail firm with smaller balance sheet accounts relative to net income may have normal ROE levels of 18% or more.



A good rule of thumb is to target an ROE that is equal to or just above the average for the company's sector—those in the same business. For example, assume a company, TechCo, has maintained a steady ROE of 18% over the past few years compared to the average of its peers, which was 15%. An investor could conclude that TechCo’s management is above average at using the company’s assets to create profits.



Relatively high or low ROE ratios will vary significantly from one industry group or sector to another. Still, a common shortcut for investors is to consider a return on equity near the long-term average of the S&P 500 (as of Q4 2022, 13.29%) as an acceptable ratio and anything less than 10% as poor.


   Return on Equity and Stock Performance  

Sustainable growth rates and dividend growth rates can be estimated using ROE, assuming that the ratio is roughly in line or just above its peer group average. Although there may be some challenges, ROE can be a good starting place for developing future estimates of a stock’s growth rate and the growth rate of its dividends. These two calculations are functions of each other and can be used to make an easier comparison between similar companies.



To estimate a company’s future growth rate, multiply the ROE by the company’s retention ratio. The retention ratio is the percentage of net income that is retained or reinvested by the company to fund future growth.





21.17%

Companies in the S&P 500 saw an average ROE of 21.17% in 2022.


  ROE and a Sustainable Growth Rate  

Assume that there are two companies with identical ROEs and net income but different retention ratios. This means they will each have a different sustainable growth rate (SGR). The SGR is the rate a company can grow without having to borrow money to finance that growth. The formula for calculating SGR is ROE times the retention ratio (or ROE times one minus the payout ratio).



For example, Company A has an ROE of 15% and has a retention ratio of 70%. Business B also has an ROE of 15% but has a 90% retention ratio. For Company A, the sustainable growth rate is 10.5% (15% * 70%). Business B's SGR is 13.5% (15% * 90%).



A stock that is growing at a slower rate than its sustainable rate could be undervalued, or the market may be accounting for key risks. In either case, a growth rate that is far above or below the sustainable rate warrants additional investigation.


   Using Return on Equity to Identify Problems  

It's reasonable to wonder why an average or slightly above-average ROE is preferable rather than an ROE that is double, triple, or even higher than the average of its peer group. Aren’t stocks with a very high ROE a better value?



Sometimes an extremely high ROE is a good thing if net income is extremely large compared to equity because a company’s performance is so strong. However, an extremely high ROE is often due to a small equity account compared to net income, which indicates risk.


  Inconsistent Profits  

The first potential issue with a high ROE could be inconsistent profits. Imagine that a company, LossCo, has been unprofitable for several years. Each year’s losses are recorded on the balance sheet in the equity portion as a “retained loss.” These losses are a negative value and reduce shareholders' equity.



Now, assume that LossCo has had a windfall in the most recent year and has returned to profitability. The denominator in the ROE calculation is now very small after many years of losses, which makes its ROE misleadingly high.


  Excess Debt  

A second issue that could cause a high ROE is excess debt. If a company has been borrowing aggressively, it can increase ROE because equity is equal to assets minus debt. The more debt a company has, the lower equity can fall. A common scenario is when a company borrows large amounts of debt to buy back its own stock. This can inflate earnings per share (EPS), but it does not affect actual performance or growth rates.


  Negative Net Income  

Finally, negative net income and negative shareholders' equity can create an artificially high ROE. However, if a company has a net loss or negative shareholders’ equity, ROE should not be calculated.



If shareholders’ equity is negative, the most common issue is excessive debt or inconsistent profitability. However, there are exceptions to that rule for companies that are profitable and have been using cash flow to buy back their own shares. For many companies, this is an alternative to paying dividends, and it can eventually reduce equity (buybacks are subtracted from equity) enough to turn the calculation negative.



In all cases, negative or extremely high ROE levels should be considered a warning sign worth investigating. In rare cases, a negative ROE ratio could be due to a cash flow-supported share buyback program and excellent management, but this is the less likely outcome. In any case, a company with a negative ROE cannot be evaluated against other stocks with positive ROE ratios.


   Limitations of Return on Equity  

A high ROE might not always be positive. An outsize ROE can be indicative of a number of issues—such as inconsistent profits or excessive debt. ROE that widely changes from one period to the next may also be an indicator of inconsistent use of accounting methods.



A negative ROE due to the company having a net loss or negative shareholders’ equity cannot be used to analyze the company, nor can it be used to compare against companies with a positive ROE. The term ROE is a misnomer in this situation as there is no return; the more appropriate classification is to consider what the loss is on equity.



ROE often can't be used to compare different companies in differing industries. ROE varies across sectors, especially as companies have different operating margins and financing structures. In addition, larger companies with greater efficiency may not be comparable to younger firms.






As with all tools used for investment analysis, ROE is just one of many available metrics that identifies just one portion of a firm's overall financials. It is crucial to utilize a combination of financial metrics to get a full understanding of a company's financial health before investing.


   Return on Equity vs. Return on Invested Capital  

Though ROE looks at how much profit a company can generate relative to shareholders’ equity, return on invested capital (ROIC) takes that calculation a couple of steps further.



The purpose of ROIC is to figure out the amount of money after dividends a company makes based on all its sources of capital, which includes shareholders' equity and debt. ROE looks at how well a company uses shareholders' equity while ROIC is meant to determine how well a company uses all its available capital to make money.


   Example of Return on Equity  

Amazon, Google, and Apple are all industry leaders in their field. To compare which company may be better at earning income based off shareholder investment, you can turn to each company's publicly issued financial statements. For this exercise, we'll look at each of the following financials:



Alphabet's fiscal year 2022 results reported on Feb. 2, 2023Amazon's fiscal year 2022 results reported on Feb. 2, 2023Apple's fiscal year 2022 results reported on Oct. 27, 2022











Alphabet, Amazon, and Apple ROE Calculations


Financial Account 
Alphabet
Amazon
Apple




Beginning Shareholder Equity
$251.635
 $138.245
$63.090 


 Ending Shareholder Equity
 $256.144
$146.043 
 $50.672


Average Shareholder Equity 
 $253.890
 $142.144
 $56.881


Net Income
$59.972
($2.722)
$99.803


ROE Formula 
 $59.972 / $253.890
 ($2.722)/$142.144
$99.803/$56.881


ROE
23.62%
-1.91%
175.46%



Relevant Financial Information, Dollars in Billions



Each company's ROE tells a different story. Alphabet's ROE of 23.62% falls very close to the respectable range mentioned early. Amazon's ROE, however, is negative due to the company's unprofitable year in 2022; be mindful to take consideration when analyzing negative ROE.



Meanwhile, Apple's financial structure and heavy reliance on debt means it can boast a very high ROE. At the end of fiscal year 2022, Apple had nearly six times as much debt as it did equity. Therefore, it is not surprising the company is able to generate high profits compared to its equity because its equity was not high.


   How to Calculate ROE Using Excel  

The formula for calculating a company's ROE is its net income divided by shareholders' equity. Here's how to use Microsoft Excel to set up the calculation for ROE:



In Excel, get started by right-clicking on column A. Next, move the cursor down and left-click on column width. Then, change the column width value to 30 default units and click OK. Repeat this procedure for columns B and C.Next, enter the name of a company into cell B1 and the name of another company into cell C1.Then, enter "Net Income" into cell A2, "Shareholders' Equity" into cell A3, and "Return on Equity" into cell A4.Enter the formula for "Return on Equity" =B2/B3 into cell B4 and enter the formula =C2/C3 into cell C4.When that is complete, enter the corresponding values for "Net Income" and "Shareholders' Equity" into cells B2, B3, C2, and C3.


   ROE and DuPont Analysis  

Though ROE can easily be computed by dividing net income by shareholders' equity, a technique called DuPont decomposition can break down the ROE calculation into additional steps. Created by the American chemicals corporation DuPont in the 1920s, this analysis reveals which factors are contributing the most (or the least) to a firm's ROE.
There are two versions of DuPont analysis. The first involves three steps:















ROE


=


NPM


×


Asset Turnover


×


Equity Multiplier
















where:
















NPM


=


Net profit margin, the measure of operating
















efficiency
















Asset Turnover


=


Measure of asset use efficiency
















Equity Multiplier


=


Measure of financial leverage







\begin{aligned} &\text{ROE} = \text{NPM} \times \text{Asset Turnover} \times \text{Equity Multiplier} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{NPM} = \text{Net profit margin, the measure of operating} \\ &\text{efficiency} \\ &\text{Asset Turnover} = \text{Measure of asset use efficiency} \\ &\text{Equity Multiplier} = \text{Measure of financial leverage} \\ \end{aligned}


​ROE=NPM×Asset Turnover×Equity Multiplierwhere:NPM=Net profit margin, the measure of operatingefficiencyAsset Turnover=Measure of asset use efficiencyEquity Multiplier=Measure of financial leverage​
​Alternatively, the five-step version is as follows:















ROE


=



EBT


S



×



S


A



×



A


E



×


(


1


−


TR


)
















where:
















EBT


=


Earnings before tax
















S


=


Sales
















A


=


Assets
















E


=


Equity
















TR


=


Tax rate







\begin{aligned} &\text{ROE} = \frac{ \text{EBT} }{ \text{S} } \times \frac{ \text{S} }{ \text{A} } \times \frac{ \text{A} }{ \text{E} } \times ( 1 - \text{TR} ) \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{EBT} = \text{Earnings before tax} \\ &\text{S} = \text{Sales} \\ &\text{A} = \text{Assets} \\ &\text{E} = \text{Equity} \\ &\text{TR} = \text{Tax rate} \\ \end{aligned}


​ROE=SEBT​×AS​×EA​×(1−TR)where:EBT=Earnings before taxS=SalesA=AssetsE=EquityTR=Tax rate​
Both the three- and five-step equations provide a deeper understanding of a company's ROE by examining what is changing in a company rather than looking at one simple ratio. As always with financial statement ratios, they should be examined against the company's history and its competitors' histories.
For example, when looking at two peer companies, one may have a lower ROE. With the five-step equation, you can see if this is lower because creditors perceive the company as riskier and charge it higher interest, the company is poorly managed and has leverage that is too low, or the company has higher costs that decrease its operating profit margin. Identifying sources like these leads to a better knowledge of the company and how it should be valued.




What Is a Good ROE?
As with most other performance metrics, what counts as a “good” ROE will depend on the company’s industry and competitors. Though the long-term ROE for the top ten S&P 500 companies has averaged around 18.6%, specific industries can be significantly higher or lower. All else being equal, an industry will likely have a lower average ROE if it is highly competitive and requires substantial assets in order to generate revenues. On the other hand, industries with relatively few players and where only limited assets are needed to generate revenues may show a higher average ROE.




How Do You Calculate ROE?
To calculate ROE, analysts simply divide the company’s net income by its average shareholders’ equity. Because shareholders’ equity is equal to assets minus liabilities, ROE is essentially a measure of the return generated on the net assets of the company. Since the equity figure can fluctuate during the accounting period in question, an average shareholders’ equity is used.




What Is the Difference Between Return on Assets (ROA) and ROE?
Return on assets (ROA) and ROE are similar in that they are both trying to gauge how efficiently the company generates its profits. However, whereas ROE compares net income to the net assets of the company, ROA compares net income to the company’s assets alone, without deducting its liabilities. In both cases, companies in industries in which operations require significant assets will likely show a lower average return.




What Happens If ROE Is Negative?
If a company's ROE is negative, it means that there was negative net income for the period in question (i.e., a loss). This implies that shareholders are losing on their investment in the company. For new and growing companies, a negative ROE is often to be expected; however, if negative ROE persists it can be a sign of trouble.




What Causes ROE to Increase?
ROE will increase as net income increases, all else equal. Another way to boost ROE is to reduce the value of shareholders' equity. Since equity is equal to assets minus liabilities, increasing liabilities (e.g., taking on more debt financing) is one way to artificially boost ROE without necessarily increasing profitability. This can be amplified if that debt is used to engage in share buybacks, effectively reducing the amount of equity available.


   The Bottom Line  

Return on equity is a common financial metric that compares how much income a company made compared to its total shareholders' equity. Another useful calculation is the return on average equity (ROAE). However, though ROE and ROAE can tell you how well a company is using resources to generate profit, it does not consider a company's entire financing structure, industry, or performance against competition without further analysis.
What Is Return on Invested Capital (ROIC)?  

Return on invested capital (ROIC) is a calculation used to assess a company's efficiency in allocating capital to profitable investments. The ROIC formula involves dividing net operating profit after tax (NOPAT) by invested capital.



ROIC gives a sense of how well a company is using its capital to generate profits. Comparing a company's ROIC with its weighted average cost of capital (WACC) reveals whether invested capital is being used effectively.





Key Takeaways

Return on invested capital (ROIC) is a calculation used to determine how well a company allocates its capital to profitable projects or investments.Seen another way, ROIC is the amount of money a company makes that is above the average cost it pays for its debt and equity capital.To calculate return on invested capital (ROIC), you divide net operating profit after tax (NOPAT) by invested capital.The return on invested capital can be used as a benchmark to calculate the value of other companies.A company is thought to be creating value if its ROIC exceeds its weighted average cost of capital (WACC).












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   ROIC Formula and Calculation  

The formula for ROIC is:


















ROIC


=



NOPAT


Invested Capital

















where:
















NOPAT


=


Net operating profit after tax







\begin{aligned} &\text{ROIC} = \frac{ \text{NOPAT} }{ \text{Invested Capital} } \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{NOPAT} = \text{Net operating profit after tax} \\ \end{aligned}


​ROIC=Invested CapitalNOPAT​where:NOPAT=Net operating profit after tax​



Written another way, ROIC = (net income – dividends) / (debt + equity). The ROIC formula is calculated by assessing the value in the denominator, total capital, which is the sum of a company's debt and equity.



There are several ways to calculate this value. One is to subtract cash and non-interest-bearing current liabilities (NIBCL)—including tax liabilities and accounts payable, as long as these are not subject to interest or fees—from total assets.



A third method of calculating invested capital is to add the book value of a company's equity to the book value of its debt and then subtract non-operating assets, including cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and assets of discontinued operations.



A final way to calculate invested capital is to obtain the working capital figure by subtracting current liabilities from current assets. Next, you obtain non-cash working capital by subtracting cash from the working capital value you just calculated. Finally, non-cash working capital is added to a company's fixed assets.






An ROIC higher than the cost of capital means a company is healthy and growing, while an ROIC lower than the cost of capital suggests an unsustainable business model.



The value in the numerator can also be calculated in several ways. The most straightforward way is to subtract dividends from a company's net income.



On the other hand, because a company may have benefited from a one-time source of income unrelated to its core business—a windfall from foreign exchange rate fluctuations, for example—it is often preferable to look at net operating profit after taxes (NOPAT). NOPAT is calculated by adjusting the operating profit for taxes:



NOPAT = (operating profit) x (1 – effective tax rate)






Many companies will report their effective tax rates for the quarter or fiscal year in their earnings releases, but not all companies do this—meaning it may be necessary to calculate the rate by dividing a company's tax expense by net income.


   What ROIC Can Tell You  

ROIC is always calculated as a percentage and is usually expressed as an annualized or trailing 12-month value. It should be compared to a company's cost of capital to determine whether the company is creating value.



If ROIC is greater than a firm's weighted average cost of capital (WACC)—the most commonly used cost of capital metric—value is being created and these firms will trade at a premium. A common benchmark for evidence of value creation is a return of two percentage points above the firm's cost of capital.



Some firms run at a zero-return level, and while they may not be destroying value, these companies have no excess capital to invest in future growth.



ROIC is one of the most important and informative valuation metrics to calculate. However, it is more important for some sectors than others, since companies that operate oil rigs or manufacture semiconductors invest capital much more intensively than those that require less equipment.


   Limitations of ROIC  

One downside of this metric is that it tells nothing about what segment of the business is generating value. If you make your calculation based on net income (minus dividends) instead of NOPAT, the result can be even more opaque, since the return may derive from a single, non-recurring event.



ROIC provides the necessary context for other metrics such as the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio. Viewed in isolation, the P/E ratio might suggest a company is oversold, but the decline could be because the company is no longer generating value for shareholders at the same rate (or at all). On the other hand, companies that consistently generate high rates of return on capital invested probably deserve to trade at a premium compared to other stocks, even if their P/E ratios seem prohibitively high.


   Example of How to Use ROIC  

As an example, let's consider Target Corporation (TGT). The company calculates its ROIC directly in its fiscal year 2021 10-K, showing the components that went into the calculation:













The ROIC calculation begins with operating income, then adds nets other income to get EBIT. Operating lease interest is then added back and income taxes subtracted to get NOPAT. Target's invested capital includes shareholder equity, long-term debt, and operating lease liabilities. Target subtracts cash and cash equivalents from the sum of those figures to get its invested capital.




What Is Invested Capital?
Invested capital is the total amount of money raised by a company by issuing securities—which is the sum of the company's equity, debt, and capital lease obligations. Invested capital is not a line item in the company's financial statement because debt, capital leases, and stockholder’s equity are each listed separately on the balance sheet.




What Does Return on Invested Capital Tell You?
Return on invested capital (ROIC) determines how efficiently a company puts the capital under its control toward profitable investments or projects. The ROIC ratio gives a sense of how well a company is using the money it has raised externally to generate returns. Comparing a company's return on invested capital with its weighted average cost of capital (WACC) reveals whether invested capital is being used effectively.




How Do You Compute ROIC?
The ROIC formula is net operating profit after tax (NOPAT) divided by invested capital. Companies with a steady or improving return on capital are unlikely to put significant amounts of new capital to work.
What Is Return on Investment (ROI)?  

Return on investment (ROI) is a performance measure used to evaluate the efficiency or profitability of an investment or compare the efficiency of a number of different investments. ROI tries to directly measure the amount of return on a particular investment, relative to the investment’s cost.



To calculate ROI, the benefit (or return) of an investment is divided by the cost of the investment. The result is expressed as a percentage or a ratio.





Key Takeaways

Return on Investment (ROI) is a popular profitability metric used to evaluate how well an investment has performed.ROI is expressed as a percentage and is calculated by dividing an investment's net profit (or loss) by its initial cost or outlay.ROI can be used to make apples-to-apples comparisons and rank investments in different projects or assets.ROI does not take into account the holding period or passage of time, and so it can miss opportunity costs of investing elsewhere.Whether or not something delivers a good ROI should be compared relative to other available opportunities.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   How to Calculate Return on Investment (ROI)  

The return on investment (ROI) formula is as follows:


















ROI


=




Current Value of Investment


−


Cost of Investment



Cost of Investment








\begin{aligned} &\text{ROI} = \dfrac{\text{Current Value of Investment}-\text{Cost of Investment}}{\text{Cost of Investment}}\\ \end{aligned}


​ROI=Cost of InvestmentCurrent Value of Investment−Cost of Investment​​ 



"Current Value of Investment” refers to the proceeds obtained from the sale of the investment of interest. Because ROI is measured as a percentage, it can be easily compared with returns from other investments, allowing one to measure a variety of types of investments against one another.


   Why Is ROI a Useful Measurement?  

ROI is a popular metric because of its versatility and simplicity. Essentially, ROI can be used as a rudimentary gauge of an investment’s profitability. This could be the ROI on a stock investment, the ROI a company expects on expanding a factory, or the ROI generated in a real estate transaction.



The calculation itself is not too complicated, and it is relatively easy to interpret for its wide range of applications. If an investment’s ROI is net positive, it is probably worthwhile. But if other opportunities with higher ROIs are available, these signals can help investors eliminate or select the best options. Likewise, investors should avoid negative ROIs, which imply a net loss.



For example, suppose Jo invested $1,000 in Slice Pizza Corp. in 2017 and sold the shares for a total of $1,200 one year later. To calculate the return on this investment, divide the net profits ($1,200 - $1,000 = $200) by the investment cost ($1,000), for an ROI of $200/$1,000, or 20%.



With this information, one could compare the investment in Slice Pizza with any other projects. Suppose Jo also invested $2,000 in Big-Sale Stores Inc. in 2014 and sold the shares for a total of $2,800 in 2017. The ROI on Jo’s holdings in Big-Sale would be $800/$2,000, or 40%.


   What Are the Limitations of ROI?  

Examples like Jo's (above) reveal some limitations of using ROI, particularly when comparing investments. While the ROI of Jo's second investment was twice that of the first investment, the time between Jo’s purchase and the sale was one year for the first investment but three years for the second.



Jo could adjust the ROI of the multi-year investment accordingly. Since the total ROI was 40%, to obtain the average annual ROI, Jo could divide 40% by 3 to yield 13.33% annualized. With this adjustment, it appears that although Jo’s second investment earned more profit, the first investment was actually the more efficient choice.



ROI can be used in conjunction with the rate of return (RoR), which takes into account a project’s time frame. One may also use net present value (NPV), which accounts for differences in the value of money over time due to inflation. The application of NPV when calculating the RoR is often called the real rate of return.


   What Are the Wider Applications of ROI?  

Recently, certain investors and businesses have taken an interest in the development of new forms of ROIs, called social return on investment (SROI). SROI was initially developed in the late 1990s and takes into account broader impacts of projects using extra-financial value (i.e., social and environmental metrics not currently reflected in conventional financial accounts).



SROI helps understand the value proposition of certain environmental, social, and governance (ESG) criteria used in socially responsible investing (SRI) practices. For instance, a company may decide to recycle water in its factories and replace its lighting with all LED bulbs. These undertakings have an immediate cost that may negatively impact traditional ROI—however, the net benefit to society and the environment could lead to a positive SROI.



There are several other new variations of ROIs that have been developed for particular purposes. Social media statistics ROI pinpoints the effectiveness of social media campaigns—for example how many clicks or likes are generated for a unit of effort. Similarly, marketing statistics ROI tries to identify the return attributable to advertising or marketing campaigns.






So-called learning ROI relates to the amount of information learned and retained as a return on education or skills training. As the world progresses and the economy changes, several other niche forms of ROI are sure to be developed in the future.




What Is ROI in Simple Terms?
Basically, return on investment (ROI) tells you how much money you've made (or lost) on an investment or project after accounting for its cost.




How Do You Calculate Return on Investment (ROI)?
Return on investment (ROI) is calculated by dividing the profit earned on an investment by the cost of that investment. For instance, an investment with a profit of $100 and a cost of $100 would have an ROI of 1, or 100% when expressed as a percentage. Although ROI is a quick and easy way to estimate the success of an investment, it has some serious limitations. ROI fails to reflect the time value of money, for instance, and it can be difficult to meaningfully compare ROIs because some investments will take longer to generate a profit than others. For this reason, professional investors tend to use other metrics, such as net present value (NPV) or the internal rate of return (IRR).




What Is a Good ROI?
What qualifies as a “good” ROI will depend on factors such as the risk tolerance of the investor and the time required for the investment to generate a return. All else being equal, investors who are more risk-averse will likely accept lower ROIs in exchange for taking less risk. Likewise, investments that take longer to pay off will generally require a higher ROI in order to be attractive to investors.




What Industries Have the Highest ROI?
Historically, the average ROI for the S&P 500 has been about 10% per year. Within that, though, there can be considerable variation depending on the industry. During 2020, for example, many technology companies generated annual returns well above this 10% threshold. Meanwhile, companies in other industries, such as energy companies and utilities, generated much lower ROIs and in some cases faced losses year-over-year. Over time, it is normal for the average ROI of an industry to shift due to factors such as increased competition, technological changes, and shifts in consumer preferences.


   The Bottom Line  

Return on investment is a metric that investors often use to evaluate the profitability of an investment or to compare returns across a number of investments. It is expressed as a percentage. ROI is limited in that it doesn't take into account the time frame, opportunity costs, or the effect of inflation on investment returns, which are all important factors to consider.
What Is Return on Net Assets (RONA)?  

Return on net assets (RONA) is a measure of financial performance calculated as net profit divided by the sum of fixed assets and net working capital. Net profit is also called net income.



The RONA ratio shows how well a company and its management are deploying assets in economically valuable ways; a high ratio result indicates that management is squeezing more earnings out of each dollar invested in assets. RONA is also used to assess how well a company is performing compared to others in its industry.





Key Takeaways

Return on net assets (RONA) compares a firm's net profits to its net assets to show how well it utilizes those assets to generate earnings.A high RONA ratio indicates that management is maximizing the use of the company's assets.Net income and fixed assets can be adjusted for unusual or non-recurring items to gain a normalized ratio result.


   The Formula for Return on Net Assets Is  

﻿















R


O


N


A


=




Net profit




(Fixed assets


+


N


W


C


)


















N


W


C


=


Current Assets 


−


Current Liabilities
















where:
















R


O


N


A


=


Return on net assets








\begin{aligned}&RONA=\frac{\text{Net profit}}{\text{(Fixed assets}+NWC)}\\&NWC=\text{Current Assets }-\text{Current Liabilities}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&RONA=\text{Return on net assets}\\&NWC=\text{Net working capital}\end{aligned}


​RONA=(Fixed assets+NWC)Net profit​NWC=Current Assets −Current Liabilitieswhere:RONA=Return on net assets​﻿


   How to Calculate RONA  

The three components of RONA are net income, fixed assets, and net working capital. Net income is found in the income statement and is calculated as revenue minus expenses associated with making or selling the company's products, operating expenses such as management salaries and utilities, interest expenses associated with debt, and all other expenses.



Fixed assets are tangible property used in production, such as real estate and machinery, and do not include goodwill or other intangible assets carried on the balance sheet. Net working capital is calculated by subtracting the company's current liabilities from its current assets. It is important to note that long-term liabilities are not part of working capital and are not subtracted in the denominator when calculating working capital for the return on net assets ratio.



At times, analysts make a few adjustments to the ratio formula inputs to smooth or normalize the results, especially when comparing to other companies. For example, consider that the fixed assets balance could be affected by certain types of accelerated depreciation, where up to 40% of the value of an asset could be eliminated in its first full year of deployment.



Additionally, any significant events that resulted in either a large loss or unusual income should be adjusted out of net income, especially if these are one-time events. Intangible assets such as goodwill are another item that analysts sometimes remove from the calculation, since it is often simply derived from an acquisition, rather than being an asset purchased for use in producing goods, such as a new piece of equipment.


   What Does RONA Tell You?  

The return on net assets (RONA) ratio compares a firm's net income with its assets and helps investors to determine how well the company is generating profit from its assets. The higher a firm's earnings relative to its assets, the more effectively the company is deploying those assets. RONA is an especially important metric for capital intensive companies, which have fixed assets as their major asset component.



In the capital-intensive manufacturing sector, RONA can also be calculated as:



﻿




Return on Net Assets


=




Plant Revenue


−


Costs




Net Assets





\text{Return on Net Assets}=\frac{\text{Plant Revenue}-\text{Costs}}{\text{Net Assets}}


Return on Net Assets=Net AssetsPlant Revenue−Costs​﻿


  Interpreting Return on Net Assets  

The higher the return on net assets, the better the profit performance of the company. A higher RONA means the company is using its assets and working capital efficiently and effectively, although no single calculation tells the whole story of a company's performance. Return on net assets is just one of many ratios used to evaluate a company's financial health.



If the purpose of performing the calculation is to generate a longer-term perspective of the company's ability to create value, extraordinary expenses may be added back into the net income figure. For example, if a company had a net income of $10 million but incurred an extraordinary expense of $1 million, the net income figure could be adjusted upward to $11 million. This adjustment provides an indication of the return on net assets the company could expect in the following year if it does not have to incur any further extraordinary expenses.


   Example of RONA  

Assume a company has revenue of $1 billion and total expenses including taxes of $800 million, giving it a net income of $200 million. The company has current assets of $400 million and current liabilities of $200 million, giving it net working capital of $200 million.



Further, the company's fixed assets amount to $800 million. Adding fixed assets to net working capital yields $1 billion in the denominator when calculating RONA. Dividing the net income of $200 million by $1 billion yields a return on net assets of 20% for the company.
What Is Return on Revenue?  

Return on revenue (ROR) is a measure of company profitability based on the amount of revenue generated. Return on revenue compares the amount of net income generated for each dollar of revenue.



Return on revenue is one of the most important financial metrics in gauging the profitability of a company. ROR is also helpful in determining how well a company's management team generates sales while also managing expenses. Return on revenue is also called net profit margin.





Key Takeaways

Return on revenue (ROR) is a measure of company profitability based on the amount of revenue generated. Return on revenue compares the amount of net income generated for each dollar of revenue. ROR shows how effectively a company's management generates revenue from sales while also managing expenses.


   Understanding Return on Revenue (ROR)  

Return on revenue represents the percentage of profit that's generated from revenue. Revenue is the money that a company generates from the sale of its goods and services. Revenue is recorded at the top of the income statement and is the number from which all expenses and costs are subtracted from to arrive at a company's profit or net income. In the retail industry, revenue can also be called net sales or net revenue because total revenue is reduced by sales discounts and merchandise returns.



Net income represents a company's profit and is calculated by taking revenue and subtracting the various costs and expenses to run the company. Some of the deductions from revenue to arrive at net income include cost of goods sold, which are the costs involved in production, taxes, operating expenses, and overhead costs called selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A). Net income is located at the bottom of the income statement and often referred to as the bottom line.



Return on revenue shows the amount of revenue that ultimately becomes net income. In other words, net income is what's left over from revenue after all costs are deducted. Return on revenue is the percentage of total revenue that was recorded as profit or what was left over after all expenses and subtractions were completed. The formula for calculating return on revenue is shown below.


   The Formula for ROR Is  

﻿




ROR


=




Net income




Sales Revenue





\text{ROR}=\frac{\text{Net income}}{\text{Sales Revenue}}


ROR=Sales RevenueNet income​﻿


   How to Calculate ROR  

Net income is divided by revenue, which will yield a decimal. The result can be multiplied by 100 to make the result a percentage.



Return on revenue uses net income, which is calculated as revenues minus expenses. The calculation includes both expenses paid in cash and non-cash expenses, such as depreciation. The net income calculation includes all of the business activities of the company, which includes day-to-day operations and unusual items, such as the sale of a building.



Revenue represents the total revenue from sales or the net revenue after rebates have been granted for returned merchandise. If net revenue is used by a company, it'll be calculated for investors and reported on the top line of the income statement.


   What Does the Return on Revenue Tell You?  

Return on revenue or net profit margin helps investors to see how much profit a company is generating from the sales for that while also considering the operating and overhead costs. By knowing how much profit is being earned from total revenue, investors can evaluate and management's effectiveness. A company not only needs to generate more sales and revenue, but it must also keep costs contained. Return on revenue provides clarity as to the relationship between revenue generation and expense management. 



If a company's management is generating revenue, but the company's costs are increasing so much that it eclipses the revenue earned, the net profit margin will decline. In other words, if a company's expenses are rising at a faster rate than its growth in revenue, the net profit margin will decline over time.



A company can increase the return on revenue or profit margin by increasing revenue, decreasing costs, or some combination of both. Companies can also change the sales mix to increase revenue. The sales mix is the proportion of each product a business sells, relative to total sales. Each product sold may deliver a different level of profit. By shifting sales to products that provide a higher profit margin, a business can increase net income and improve ROR.



Assume, for example, that a sporting goods store sells an $80 baseball glove that generates a $16 profit and a $200 baseball bat that produces a $20 profit. While the bat generates more revenue, the glove produces a 20% profit ($16 / $80), and the bat only earns a 10% profit ($20 / $200). By shifting the store's sales and marketing effort to baseball gloves, the business can earn more net income per dollar of sales, which increases ROR.



A corporation's ROR allows an investor to compare profitability from year to year and evaluate the company's management's business decisions. Since ROR does not consider a company's assets and liabilities, it should be used in conjunction with other metrics when evaluating a company's financial performance.


   ROR vs. EPS  

When management makes changes to increase ROR, the company's decisions also help increase earnings per share (EPS). EPS is an indicator of a company's profitability by comparing net income to the number of outstanding shares of common stock. The higher the EPS, the more profitable a company is considered.



EPS is calculated by dividing net income by the number of outstanding shares of common stock. For example, let's assume that a firm earns a total net income of $1 million per year and has 100,000 shares of common stock outstanding, and EPS is ($1,000,000 / 100,000 shares), or $10 per share. If senior management can increase net income to $1.2 million, and there is no change in common stock shares, EPS increases to $12 per share. The increase in net income also increases ROR. However, ROR has no bearing on the number of shares outstanding.



Both EPS and ROR measure the extent of the profit generated by a company. Companies issue shares of stock to generate funds to invest in the company and grow profits. If a company generates a significant amount of net income as a result of the capital received from issuing shares of stock, the company's management would be seen as growing earnings efficiently.



In other words, earnings per share shows how much net income has been generated based on the quantity of shares outstanding. A company that generates more earnings with a fewer number of shares outstanding than the competition would have a higher EPS and be viewed more favorably by investors. EPS helps to show how effectively management is at deploying its resources to generate profit. 



While EPS measures the profit generated as a result of the number of outstanding stock shares, ROR measures the profit generated from the amount of revenue generated. ROR helps to show how effective a company's management is at increasing sales while managing the costs to run the business. Both metrics are important and should be used in tandem when evaluating a company's financial performance.


   Real World Example of Return on Revenue  

Below is the income statement for Apple Inc. (AAPL) for the fiscal year ending Sept. 28, 2019, according to the company's 10-K filing.



Net sales or revenue was $260 billion for 2019 (highlighted in blue).Net income was $55.2 billion for 2019 (highlighted in green). Apple's return on revenue is calculated by dividing the net income of $55.2 billion by total net sales of $260 billion.Apple's return on revenue for 2019 was 21% or ($55.2 billion ÷ $260 billion) x 100.















Return on revenue example with Apple Inc.
Investopedia



To determine whether Apple's return on revenue was favorable, investors should compare the results to other companies within the same industry and during the same period. Investors can also calculate a company's ROR for several periods to get a sense of how the ROR has been trending.
What Is Return on Risk-Adjusted Capital (RORAC)?  

The return on risk-adjusted capital (RORAC) is a rate of return measure commonly used in financial analysis, where various projects, endeavors, and investments are evaluated based on capital at risk. Projects with different risk profiles are easier to compare with each other once their individual RORAC values have been calculated.



The RORAC is similar to return on equity (ROE), except the denominator is adjusted to account for the risk of a project.





Key Takeaways

Return on risk-adjusted capital (RORAC) is commonly used in financial analysis, where various projects or investments are evaluated based on capital at risk.RORAC allows for an apples-to-apples comparison of projects with different risk profiles.Similar to risk-adjusted return on capital, RAROC differs in that it adjusts the return for risk and not the capital.


   The Formula for RORAC Is  

Return on Risk-Adjusted Capital is calculated by dividing a company’s net income by the risk-weighted assets.



﻿














Return on Risk Adjusted Capital


=



Net Income


Risk-Weighted Assets

















where:
















Risk-Weighted Assets = Allocated risk capital, economic
















capital, or value at risk







\begin{aligned} &\text{Return on Risk Adjusted Capital}=\frac{\text{Net Income}}{\text{Risk-Weighted Assets}}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{Risk-Weighted Assets = Allocated risk capital, economic}\\ &\text{capital, or value at risk}\\ \end{aligned}


​Return on Risk Adjusted Capital=Risk-Weighted AssetsNet Income​where:Risk-Weighted Assets = Allocated risk capital, economiccapital, or value at risk​﻿﻿


   What Does Return on Risk-Adjusted Capital Tell You?  

Return on risk-adjusted capital (RORAC) takes into account the capital at risk, whether it be related to a project or company division. Allocated risk capital is the firm's capital, adjusted for a maximum potential loss based on estimated future earnings distributions or the volatility of earnings.



Companies use RORAC to place greater emphasis on firm-wide risk management. For example, different corporate divisions with unique managers can use RORAC to quantify and maintain acceptable risk-exposure levels.



This calculation is similar to risk-adjusted return on capital (RAROC). With RORAC, however, the capital is adjusted for risk, not the rate of return. RORAC is used when the risk varies depending on the capital asset being analyzed.


   Example of How to Use RORAC  

Assume a firm is evaluating two projects it has engaged in over the previous year and needs to decide which one to eliminate. Project A had total revenues of $100,000 and total expenses of $50,000. The total risk-weighted assets involved in the project is $400,000.



Project B had total revenues of $200,000 and total expenses of $100,000. The total risk-weighted assets involved in Project B is $900,000. The RORAC of the two projects is calculated as:



﻿















Project A RORAC


=




$


1


0


0


,


0


0


0


−


$


5


0


,


0


0


0




$


4


0


0


,


0


0


0




=


1


2


.


5


%
















Project B RORAC


=




$


2


0


0


,


0


0


0


−


$


1


0


0


,


0


0


0




$


9


0


0


,


0


0


0




=


1


1


.


1


%








\begin{aligned} &\text{Project A RORAC}=\frac{\$100,000-\$50,000}{\$400,000}=12.5\%\\ &\text{Project B RORAC}=\frac{\$200,000-\$100,000}{\$900,000}=11.1\%\\ \end{aligned}


​Project A RORAC=$400,000$100,000−$50,000​=12.5%Project B RORAC=$900,000$200,000−$100,000​=11.1%​﻿



Even though Project B had twice as much revenue as Project A, once the risk-weighted capital of each project is taken into account, it is clear that Project A has a better RORAC.


   The Difference Between RORAC and RAROC  

RORAC is similar to, and easily confused with, two other statistics. Risk-adjusted return on capital (RAROC) is usually defined as the ratio of risk-adjusted return to economic capital. In this calculation, instead of adjusting the risk of the capital itself, it is the risk of the return that is quantified and measured. Often, the expected return of a project is divided by value at risk (VaR) to arrive at RAROC.



Another statistic similar to RORAC is the risk-adjusted return on risk-adjusted capital (RARORAC). This statistic is calculated by taking the risk-adjusted return and dividing it by economic capital, adjusting for diversification benefits. It uses guidelines defined by the international risk standards covered in Basel III—which is a set for reforms that are to be implemented by Jan. 1, 2022, and is meant to improve the regulation, supervision, and risk management within the banking sector.


   Limitations of Using Return on Risk-Adjusted Capital – RORAC  

Calculating the risk-adjusted capital can be cumbersome as it requires understanding the value at risk calculation.



For related insight, read more about how risk-weighted assets are calculated based on capital risk.
What Is Return on Sales (ROS)?  

Return on sales (ROS) is a ratio used to evaluate a company's operational efficiency. This measure provides insight into how much profit is being produced per dollar of sales. An increasing ROS indicates that a company is improving efficiency, while a decreasing ROS could signal impending financial troubles. ROS is closely related to a firm's operating profit margin.





Key Takeaways

Return on sales (ROS) is a measure of how efficiently a company turns sales into profits.ROS is calculated by dividing operating profit by net sales.ROS is only useful when comparing companies in the same line of business and of roughly the same size.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   Formula and Calculation of Return on Sales (ROS)  

Locate net sales and operating profit from a company's income statement and plug the figures into the formula below:


















ROS


=



Operating Profit


Net Sales

















where:
















ROS


=


Return on sales
















Operating Profit is calculated as earnings
















before interest, or EBIT.







\begin{aligned}&\text{ROS} = \frac{\text{Operating Profit}}{\text{Net Sales}}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{ROS}=\text{Return on sales}\\&\text{Operating Profit is calculated as earnings}\\&\text{before interest, or EBIT.}\end{aligned}


​ROS=Net SalesOperating Profit​where:ROS=Return on salesOperating Profit is calculated as earningsbefore interest, or EBIT.​


   What Return on Sales Can Tell You  

When calculating return on sales, investors might notice that some companies report net sales while others report revenue. Net sales is total revenue minus the credits or refunds paid to customers for merchandise returns. Net sales will likely be listed for companies in the retail industry, while others will list revenue.



Below are the steps to calculate return on sales:



Locate net sales on the income statement, but it can also be listed as revenue.
Locate operating profit on the income statement. Be sure not to include non-operating activities and expenses, such as taxes and interest expenses.
Divide operating profit by net sales.



Return on sales is a financial ratio that calculates how efficiently a company is generating profits from its top-line revenue. It measures the performance of a company by analyzing the percentage of total revenue that is converted into operating profits.



The calculation shows how effectively a company is producing its core products and services and how its management runs the business. Therefore, ROS is used as an indicator of both efficiency and profitability. Investors, creditors, and other debt holders rely on this efficiency ratio because it accurately communicates the percentage of operating cash a company makes on its revenue and provides insight into potential dividends, reinvestment potential, and the company's ability to repay debt.



ROS is used to compare current period calculations with calculations from previous periods. This allows a company to conduct trend analyses and compare internal efficiency performance over time. It is also useful to compare one company's ROS percentage with that of a competing company, regardless of scale.



The comparison makes it easier to assess the performance of a small company than a Fortune 500 company. However, ROS should only be used to compare companies within the same industry as they vary greatly across industries. A grocery chain, for example, has lower margins and therefore a lower ROS compared to a technology company.



Return on sales and operating profit margin are often used to describe a similar financial ratio. The main difference between each usage lies in the way their respective formulas are derived. The standard way of writing the formula for operating margin is operating income divided by net sales. Return on sales is extremely similar except the numerator is usually written as earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) while the denominator is still net sales.


   Example of How to Use Return on Sales  

For example, a company that generates $100,000 in sales and requires $90,000 in total costs to generate its revenue is less efficient than a company that generates $50,000 in sales but only requires $30,000 in total costs.



ROS is larger if a company's management successfully cuts costs while increasing revenue. Using the same example, the company with $50,000 in sales and $30,000 in costs has an operating profit of $20,000 and a ROS of 40% ($20,000 / $50,000). If the company's management team wants to increase efficiency, it can focus on increasing sales while incrementally increasing expenses, or it can focus on decreasing expenses while maintaining or increasing revenue.


   Limitations of Using Return on Sales  

Return on sales should only be used to compare companies that operate in the same industry, and ideally among those that have similar business models and annual sales figures. Companies in different industries with wildly different business models have very different operating margins, so comparing them using EBIT in the numerator could be confusing.



To make it easier to compare sales efficiency between different companies and different industries, many analysts use a profitability ratio that eliminates the effects of financing, accounting, and tax policies: earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). For example, by adding back depreciation, the operating margins of big manufacturing firms and heavy industrial companies are more comparable.



EBITDA is sometimes used as a proxy for operating cash flow, because it excludes non-cash expenses, such as depreciation. But EBITDA does not equal cash flow. That’s because it does not adjust for any increase in working capital or account for capital expenditures that are needed to support production and maintain a company’s asset base—as operating cash flow does.




What Can Return on Sales Tell You?
Return on sales is a financial ratio that calculates how efficiently a company is generating profits from its top-line revenue. It measures the performance of a company by analyzing the percentage of total revenue that is converted into operating profits. ROS is used as an indicator of both efficiency and profitability as it shows how effectively a company is producing its core products and services and how its management runs the business.




What Is the Difference Between ROS and Operating Margin?
Return on sales and operating profit margin are often used to describe a similar financial ratio. The main difference between each usage lies in the way their respective formulas are derived. The standard way of writing the formula for operating margin is operating income divided by net sales. Return on sales is extremely similar except the numerator is usually written as earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) while the denominator is still net sales.




What Are the Limitations of Return on Sales?
Return on sales should only be used to compare companies that operate in the same industry, and ideally among those that have similar business models and annual sales figures. A grocery chain, for example, has lower margins and therefore a lower ROS compared to a technology company. Companies in different industries with wildly different business models have very different operating margins, so comparing them using EBIT in the numerator could be confusing.
What Is Return on Total Assets?  

Return on total assets (ROTA) is a ratio that measures a company's earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) relative to its total net assets. It is defined as the ratio between net income and total average assets, or the amount of financial and operational income a company receives in a financial year as compared to the average of that company's total assets.



The ratio is considered to be an indicator of how effectively a company is using its assets to generate earnings. EBIT is used instead of net profit to keep the metric focused on operating earnings without the influence of tax or financing differences when compared to similar companies.





Key Takeaways

The return on total assets shows how effectively a company uses its assets to generate earnings.The ROTA metric can be used to determine which companies are reporting the most efficient use of their assets as compared with their earnings.Some concern exists about ROTA relying on the book value of total assets rather than their market value, giving a return that looks higher than it should be in reality.


   Understanding Return on Total Assets  

The greater a company's earnings in proportion to its assets (and the greater the coefficient from this calculation), the more effectively that company is said to be using its assets. The ROTA, expressed as a percentage or decimal, provides insight into how much money is generated from each dollar invested into the organization.



This allows the organization to see the relationship between its resources and its income, and it can provide a point of comparison to determine if an organization is using its assets more or less effectively than it had previously. In circumstances where the company earns a new dollar for each dollar invested in it, the ROTA is said to be one, or 100 percent.


   The Formula for Return on Total Assets – ROTA Is  

﻿















Return on Total Assets


=




EBIT




Average Total Assets


















where:
















EBIT


=


Earnings before interest and taxes








\begin{aligned} &\text{Return on Total Assets} = \frac{ \text{EBIT} }{ \text{Average Total Assets} } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{EBIT} = \text{Earnings before interest and taxes} \\ \end{aligned}


​Return on Total Assets=Average Total AssetsEBIT​where:EBIT=Earnings before interest and taxes​﻿



To calculate ROTA, divide net income by the average total assets in a given year, or for the trailing twelve month period if the data is available. The same ratio can also be represented as the product of profit margin and total asset turnover.


   How to Calculate ROTA  

To calculate ROTA, obtain the net income figure from a company's income statement, and then add back interest and/or taxes that were paid during the year. The resulting number result is the company's EBIT.



The EBIT number should then be divided by the company's total net assets to show the earnings that the company has generated for each dollar of assets on its books.



Total assets include contra accounts for this ratio, meaning that allowance for doubtful accounts and accumulated depreciation are both subtracted from the total asset balance before calculating the ratio.


   Limitations of Using Return on Total Assets (ROTA)  

Over time, the value of an asset may diminish or increase. In the case of real estate, the value of the asset may rise. On the other hand, most mechanical pieces of a business, such as vehicles or other machinery, generally depreciate over time as wear and tear affect their value.



Since the ROTA formula uses the book values of assets from the balance sheet, it may be significantly understating the fixed assets' actual market value. This leads to a higher ratio result that shows a return on total assets that is higher than it should be because the denominator (total assets) is too low.



Another limitation is how the ratio works with financed assets. If a debt was used to buy an asset, the ROTA could look favorable, while the company may actually be having trouble making its interest expense payments.



The ratio inputs can be adjusted to reflect the assets' functional values while accounting for the interest rate currently being paid to a financial institution. For example, if an asset was acquired with funds from a loan with an interest rate of 5% and the return on the associated asset was a gain of 20%, then the adjusted ROTA would be 15%.



Since many newer companies have higher amounts of debt associated with their assets, these adjustments may make the business look less attractive in the eyes of investors. Once those debts begin to clear, the ROTA will appear to improve accordingly.
What Is a Returned Payment Fee?  

A returned payment fee is a one-time penalty charged by a bank when a customer bounces a check. The bank sends the customer a message indicating that a check has been returned unpaid "due to non-sufficient funds" in the account. Depending on the bank, this fee can be between $25 and $40 for each bad check.



A credit card issuer will add its own penalty fee if a customer makes a payment with a check or an online payment that is declined by a bank.



In order to resolve the problem, the customer has to deposit enough money to cover the fees and the check that was not honored and then ask the recipient of the check to resubmit it for payment.



The customer's credit rating will not be dinged if the matter is resolved quickly.





Key Takeaways

A returned payment fee is a charge incurred when a consumer bounces a payment.Payments may be returned because of insufficient funds in a consumer's account, closed accounts, or frozen accounts. Banks and other financial institutions charge their consumers returned payment fees.Returned payment fees are also charged by service providers like cable subscription services, cell phones, wireless service providers, and gyms.Credit card companies generally charge the highest returned payment fees of any creditor. 


   Understanding Returned Payment Fees  

Creditors charge consumers a series of fees—some are for services rendered while others are punitive. Service fees range from account maintenance charges, minimum balance fees, and funds transfer charges. Punitive fees and penalties include things like non-sufficient funds (NSF) charges, late fees, and returned payment fees. Creditors must specify the amount of any fees including those for returned payments in the agreement.



Returned payment fees, also called dishonored payment fees, are charged when a customer makes a payment with insufficient funds to cover a payment. Depending on the creditor, returned payment fees generally range anywhere between $25 and $40 per instance.



As noted above, payments may be returned for any number of reasons including insufficient funds in a consumer's account or because of closed accounts. Banks may also freeze accounts for legitimate reasons including suspicious activity or government garnishments, which can also result in payments being returned.



While returned payment fees are most common with checks, they may also occur with payments that are made online or scheduled to be taken automatically. Consumers should be cautious when paying with a check or setting up an automatic payment. Customers who know they won't have enough money to cover their payment by the due date shouldn't send the creditor a check.



While late fees and interest charges may apply, they won’t have additional charges like a returned payment and NSF fee. Customers can easily cancel any recurring payments or make changes to the payment method to an account that can cover the charge to avoid a returned payment fee.






When your creditor charges a returned payment fee, there's a very good likelihood that you'll incur an NSF fee from your bank as well.


   Special Considerations  

Some institutions may waive returned payment fees in certain conditions. For example, they may waive the fee for a first-time occurrence or for customers with accounts in good standing. Others may also waive the fee in case the consumer has a good reason why the payment was rejected. It's always best to talk to your financial institution if there was a viable error for which you had no control.



A returned payment fee often comes along with late payment fees and interest. If you try to pay your credit card bill at the last minute but your payment doesn’t clear, your monthly minimum payment becomes overdue, and you will owe a late fee. A few credit cards do not charge late fees at all or will waive the late fee the first time the customer has a late payment.



Even if a late fee doesn’t apply, interest charges will almost always apply. You may also be subject to an increase in your interest rate if your returned payment means you’ve missed your minimum payment deadline. Your bank may also charge you an insufficient funds fee—also known as an NSF fee—for writing a check that didn't clear.


   Types of Returned Payment Fees  

Credit card companies generally have some of the highest returned payment fees. In fact, they can be as high as $40. To find out whether your credit card has a returned payment fee and how much it is, check the card’s terms and conditions.



Returned payment fees are also charged by other creditors including cable subscription services, cell phone companies, and wireless service providers, and gyms. Many contracts like car leases and financing may also outline returned payment charges.
What Is a Revaluation?  

A revaluation is a calculated upward adjustment to a country's official exchange rate relative to a chosen baseline. The baseline can include wage rates, the price of gold, or a foreign currency. Revaluation is the opposite of devaluation, which is a downward adjustment of a country's official exchange rate.





Key Takeaways

A revaluation is a calculated upward adjustment to a country's official exchange rate relative to a chosen baseline, such as wage rates, the price of gold, or a foreign currency.In a fixed exchange rate regime, only a country's government, such as its central bank, can change the official value of the currency.In floating exchange rate systems, currency revaluation can be triggered by a variety of events, including changes in the interest rates between various countries or large-scale events that impact an economy.


   Understanding a Revaluation  

In a fixed exchange rate regime, only a decision by a country's government, such as its central bank, can alter the official value of the currency. Developing economies are more likely to use a fixed-rate system in order to limit speculation and provide a stable system.



A floating rate is the opposite of a fixed rate. In a floating rate environment, revaluation can occur on a regular basis, as seen by the observable fluctuations in the foreign currency market and the associated exchange rates.



The U.S. had a fixed exchange rate until 1973 when President Richard Nixon removed the United States from the gold standard and introduced a floating rate system. Although China has an advanced economy, its currency has been fixed since 1994. Before the Chinese government revalued its currency in 2005, it was pegged to the U.S. dollar. After revaluation, it was pegged to a basket of world currencies.


   Effects of Revaluations  

Revaluations affect both the currency being examined and the valuation of assets held by foreign companies in that particular currency. Since a revaluation has the potential to change the exchange rate between two countries and their respective currencies, the book values of foreign-held assets may have to be adjusted to reflect the impact of the change in the exchange rate.



For example, suppose a foreign government has set 10 units of its currency equal to $1 in U.S. currency. To revalue, the government might change the rate to five units per dollar. This results in its currency being twice as expensive when compared to U.S. dollars than it was previously.



If the aforementioned currency revaluation occurred, any assets held by a U.S. company in the foreign economy need to be revalued. If the asset, held in foreign currency, was previously valued at $100,000 based on the old exchange rate, the revaluation would require its value to be changed to $200,000. This change reflects the new value of the foreign asset, in the home currency, by adjusting for the revaluation of the currency involved.


   Causes of a Revaluation  

Currency revaluation can be triggered by a variety of events. Some of the more common causes include changes in the interest rates between various countries and large-scale events that affect the overall profitability, or competitiveness, of an economy. Changes in leadership can also cause fluctuations because they may signal a change in a particular market’s stability.



Speculative demand can also affect the value of a currency. For example, in 2016, prior to the vote determining if Britain would remain part of the European Union (EU), speculation caused fluctuations in the value of multiple currencies. Since it was not yet known at that time whether or not Britain would remain part of the EU, any action taken because of this possibility was considered speculative in nature.




What Is the Effect of a Currency Revaluation?
A currency revaluation increases the value of a currency in relation to other currencies. This makes the purchase of foreign goods in foreign currencies less expensive to domestic importers. Conversely, domestic exporters will see a decline in exporting business as the exporting goods are now more expensive to foreign importers.




Is Currency Revaluation Good or Bad?
Currency revaluation is usually good for the country that does the revaluation as it increases the value of the currency. Exchange rates are bilateral, so the improvement in one currency means the decline of another; however, because the world is intertwined, changes in currency values can have far-reaching consequences, which could impact the levels of imports and exports. So though a currency revaluation might be good for a country's currency, it makes its goods more expensive, possibly hurting the level of exports.




How Can a Country Increase the Value of Its Currency?
Currencies are affected by a variety of factors. Some ways that a country can improve its currency is by purchasing its own currency and selling foreign exchange assets to do so. It can also raise interest rates, reduce inflation, and implement supply-side economic policies, such as increasing competitiveness.
What Is Revaluation Reserve?  

Revaluation reserve is an accounting term used when a company creates a line item on its balance sheet for the purpose of maintaining a reserve account tied to certain assets. This line item can be used when a revaluation assessment finds that the carrying value of the asset has changed.






Revaluation reserves are most often used when an asset’s market value greatly fluctuates or is volatile due to currency relationships.





Key Takeaways

Companies use revaluation reserve lines on the balance sheet to account for value fluctuations in long-term assets.Revaluation reserves are most often used when an asset’s market value greatly fluctuates or is volatile due to currency relationships.Revaluation reserves have an offsetting expense that is debited (increased) or credited (decreased) depending on the change from revaluation.


   Understanding Revaluation Reserve  

Companies have the flexibility to create line items for reserves on the balance sheet when they feel it is necessary for proper accounting presentation. Companies may use reserves for various reasons, including asset revaluation. Like most reserve line items, the revaluation reserve amount either increases or decreases the total value of balance sheet assets.



Revaluation reserves are not necessarily common, but they can be used when a company believes the value of certain assets will fluctuate beyond established schedules. The standard procedure for identifying the carrying value of assets on the balance sheet involves marking assets down overtime on a scheduled basis, usually based on a depreciation schedule.



In general, revaluation reserves increase or decrease the carrying value of the asset-based on estimates of its fair value.



Companies may establish a revaluation reserve if they believe an asset’s carrying value needs to be more closely monitored and assessed due to certain market situations, such as real estate assets that are increasing in market value or foreign assets that are fluctuating due to currency changes. A company can add to or subtract from the revaluation reserve throughout the year without waiting for monthly or quarterly scheduled adjustments. This line item helps to keep value more accurate through day-to-day activities.



Companies may use reserve lines in place of or in association with write-downs or impairments. Write-downs and impairments are usually a one-time expense charge due to an unexpected decrease in the value of a long-term asset.


   Recording Revaluation Reserves  

The revaluation reserve refers to the specific line item adjustment required when the revaluation of an asset takes place. In most cases, the reserve line either increases a liability or reduces the value of an asset. When an entry to a reserve account is made, an offsetting entry must be made to an expense account which will show up on the income statement.



If the asset decreases in value, the revaluation reserve is credited on the balance sheet to decrease the carrying value of the asset, and the expense is debited to increase total revaluation expense. If the asset increases in value, the offsetting reserve expense would be decreased through credit, and the revaluation reserve on the balance sheet would be increased through a debit.


   Book Value vs. Fair Value  

For most companies, the carrying value of assets is the book value after netting out any accumulated depreciation. The carrying value of an asset may be adjusted to the fair value after the depreciation period has ended. Generally, the decision to record an asset's carrying value at book value rather than fair value is made when an asset is long-term in nature. Shorter-term assets are usually more liquid and therefore can easily be carried on the balance sheet at their fair market value.
What is Revealed Preference?  

Revealed preference, a theory offered by American economist Paul Anthony Samuelson in 1938, states that consumer behavior, if their income and the item's price are held constant, is the best indicator of their preferences.





Key Takeaways

Revealed preference, a theory offered by American economist Paul Anthony Samuelson in 1938, states that consumer behavior, if their income and the item's price are held constant, is the best indicator of their preferences.Revealed preference theory works on the assumption that consumers are rational.Three primary axioms of revealed preference are WARP, SARP, and GARP.


   Understanding Revealed Preference  

For a long time, consumer behavior, most notably consumer choice, had been understood through the concept of utility. In economics, utility refers to how much satisfaction or pleasure consumers get from the purchase of a product, service, or experienced event. However, utility is incredibly difficult to quantify in indisputable terms, and by the beginning of the 20th Century, economists were complaining about the pervasive reliance on utility. Replacement theories were considered, but all were similarly criticized, until Samuelson's "Revealed Preference Theory," which posited that consumer behavior was not based on utility, but on observable behavior that relied on a small number of relatively uncontested assumptions.



Revealed preference is an economic theory regarding an individual's consumption patterns, which asserts that the best way to measure consumer preferences is to observe their purchasing behavior. Revealed preference theory works on the assumption that consumers are rational. In other words, they will have considered a set of alternatives before making a purchasing decision that is best for them. Thus, given that a consumer chooses one option out of the set, this option must be the preferred option.



Revealed preference theory allows room for the preferred option to change depending upon price and budgetary constraints. By examining the preferred preference at each point of constraint, a schedule can be created of a given population's preferred items under a varied schedule of pricing and budget constraints. The theory states that given a consumer's budget, they will select the same bundle of goods (the "preferred" bundle) as long as that bundle remains affordable. It is only if the preferential bundle becomes unaffordable that they will switch to a less expensive, less desirable bundle of goods.



The original intention of revealed preference theory was to expand upon the theory of marginal utility, coined by Jeremy Bentham. Utility, or enjoyment from a good, is very hard to quantify, so Samuelson set about looking for a way to do so. Since then, revealed preference theory has been expanded upon by a number of economists and remains a major theory of consumption behavior. The theory is especially useful in providing a method for analyzing consumer choice empirically.


   Three Axioms of Revealed Preference  

As economists developed the revealed preference theory, they identified three primary axioms of revealed preference—the weak axiom, the strong axiom, and the generalized axiom.



Weak Axiom of Revealed Preference (WARP): This axiom states that given incomes and prices, if one product or service is purchased instead of another, then, as consumers, we will always make the same choice. The weak axiom also states that if we buy one particular product, then we will never buy a different product or brand unless it is cheaper, offers increased convenience, or is of better quality (i.e. unless it provides more benefits). As consumers, we will buy what we prefer and our choices will be consistent, so suggests the weak axiom.Strong Axiom of Revealed Preference (SARP): This axiom states that in a world where there are only two goods from which to choose, a two-dimensional world, the strong and weak actions are shown to be equivalent.Generalized Axiom of Revealed Preference (GARP): This axiom covers the case when, for a given level of income and or price, we get the same level of benefit from more than one consumption bundle. In other words, this axiom accounts for when no unique bundle that maximizes utility exists.


   Example of Revealed Preference  

As an example of the relationships expounded upon in revealed preference theory, consider consumer X that purchases a pound of grapes. It is assumed under revealed preference theory that consumer X prefers that pound of grapes above all other items that cost the same, or are cheaper than, that pound of grapes. Since consumer X prefers that pound of grapes over all other items they can afford, they will only purchase something other than that pound of grapes if the pound of grapes becomes unaffordable. If the pound of grapes becomes unaffordable, consumer X will then move on to a less preferable substitute item.


   Criticisms of Revealed Preference Theory  

Some economists say that revealed preference theory makes too many assumptions. For instance, how can we be sure that consumer's preferences remain constant over time? Isn’t it possible that an action at a specific point in time reveals part of a consumer’s preference scale just at that time? For example, if just an orange and an apple were available for purchase, and the consumer chooses an apple, then we can definitely say that the apple is revealed preferred to the orange.



There is no proof to back up the assumption that a preference remains unchanged from one point in time to another. In the real world, there are lots of alternative choices. It is impossible to determine what product or set of products or behavioral options were turned down in preference to buying an apple.
What Is Revenue?  

Revenue is the money generated from normal business operations, calculated as the average sales price times the number of units sold. It is the top line (or gross income) figure from which costs are subtracted to determine net income. Revenue is also known as sales on the income statement.





Key Takeaways

Revenue, often referred to as sales or the top line, is the money received from normal business operations.Operating income is revenue (from the sale of goods or services) less operating expenses.Non-operating income is infrequent or nonrecurring income derived from secondary sources (e.g., lawsuit proceeds).Non-business entities such as governments, nonprofits, or individuals also report revenue, though calculations and sources for each differ.Revenue is only sale proceeds, while income or profit incorporate the expenses to generate revenue and report the net (not gross) earnings.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Revenue  

Revenue is money brought into a company by its business activities. There are different ways to calculate revenue, depending on the accounting method employed. Accrual accounting will include sales made on credit as revenue for goods or services delivered to the customer. Under certain rules, revenue is recognized even if payment has not yet been received.



It is necessary to check the cash flow statement to assess how efficiently a company collects money owed. Cash accounting, on the other hand, will only count sales as revenue when payment is received. Cash paid to a company is known as a "receipt." It is possible to have receipts without revenue. For example, if the customer paid in advance for a service not yet rendered or undelivered goods, this activity leads to a receipt but not revenue.



Revenue is known as the top line because it appears first on a company's income statement. Net income, also known as the bottom line, is revenues minus expenses. There is a profit when revenues exceed expenses.



To increase profit, and hence earnings per share (EPS) for its shareholders, a company increases revenues and/or reduces expenses. Investors often consider a company's revenue and net income separately to determine the health of a business. Net income can grow while revenues remain stagnant because of cost-cutting.



Such a situation does not bode well for a company's long-term growth. When public companies report their quarterly earnings, two figures that receive a lot of attention are revenues and EPS. A company beating or missing analysts' revenue and earnings per share expectations can often move a stock's price.






Revenue may also be referred to as sales and is used in the price-to-sales (P/S) ratio—an alternative to the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio that uses revenue in the denominator.


   Types of Revenue  

A company's revenue may be subdivided according to the divisions that generate it. For example, Toyota Motor Corporation may classify revenue across each type of vehicle. Alternatively, it can choose to group revenue by car type (i.e. compact vs. truck).



A company may also distinguish revenue between tangible and intangible product lines. For example, Apple products include iPad, Apple Watch, and Apple TV. Alternatively, Apple may be interested in separately analyzing its Apple Music, Apple TV+, or iCloud services.



Revenue can be divided into operating revenue—sales from a company's core business—and non-operating revenue which is derived from secondary sources. As these non-operating revenue sources are often unpredictable or nonrecurring, they can be referred to as one-time events or gains. For example, proceeds from the sale of an asset, a windfall from investments, or money awarded through litigation are non-operating revenue.


   Formula and Calculation of Revenue  

The formula and calculation of revenue will vary across companies, industries, and sectors. A service company will have a different formula than a retailer, while a company that does not accept returns may have different calculations than companies with return periods. Broadly speaking, the formula to calculate net revenue is:



Net Revenue = (Quantity Sold * Unit Price) - Discounts - Allowances - Returns



The main component of revenue is the quantity sold multiplied by the price. For a service company, this is the number of service hours multiplied by the billable service rate. For a retailer, this is the number of goods sold multiplied by the sales price.



The obvious constraint with this formula is a company that has a diversified product line. For example, Apple can sell a MacBook, iPhone, and iPad, each for a different price. Therefore, the net revenue formula should be calculated for each product or service, then added together to get a company's total revenue.



There are several components that reduce revenue reported on a company's financial statements in accordance to accounting guidelines. Discounts on the price offered, allowances awarded to customers, or product returns are subtracted from the total amount collected. Note that some components (i.e. discounts) should only be subtracted if the unit price used in the earlier part of the formula is at market (not discount) price.






One entity's revenue is often another entity's expense. For example, your personal household expense of $1,000 to buy the latest smartphone is $1,000 revenue for the phone company.


   Example of Revenue  

Microsoft boasts a diversified product line that contributes many types of revenue. The company defines its business in several different channels including:



Productivity and Business Processes: Office products (commercial and consumer), LinkedIn, Dynamics productsIntelligent Cloud: Server products and cloud servicesMore Personal Computing: WIndows OEM, Windows Commercial, Xbox, Surface.



As shown below, Microsoft reported $49.36 billion during Q3 2022. High-level reporting requirements have Microsoft's income statement being shown between product revenue and service/other revenue.















Microsoft, Q3 2022 Income Statement.



In supplementary reports, Microsoft further clarifies revenue sources. For example, the breakdown of the $49.36 billion of revenue earned during Q3 2022 was split fairly evenly between the three product lines:















Microsoft, Segment Revenue Q3 2022.


   Revenue vs. Income/Profit  

Many entities may report both revenue and income/profit. These two terms are used to report different accumulations of numbers.



Revenue is often the gross proceeds collected by an entity. It is the measurement of only income component of an entity's operations. For a business, revenue is all of the money it has earned.



Income/profit usually incorporates other facets of a business. For example, net income or incorporate expenses such as cost of goods sold, operating expenses, taxes, and interest expenses. While revenue is a gross amount focused just on the collection of proceeds, income or profit incorporate other aspects of a business that reports the net proceeds.


   Special Considerations  
  Recognizing Revenue: ASC 606  

In 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board released Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). The accounting standards update outlined new guidance on how companies must report revenue. The guidance requires an entity to recognize revenue in accordance with five steps:



Identify the contract with the customer.Identify the performance obligation in the contract.Determine the contract price.Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligation(s) in the contract.Recognize revenue when the entity satisfies a performance obligation.


  Government Revenue  

In the case of government, revenue is the money received from taxation, fees, fines, inter-governmental grants or transfers, securities sales, mineral or resource rights, as well as any sales made. Governments collect revenue from citizens within its district and collections from other government entities.


  Nonprofit Revenue  

For nonprofits, revenues are its gross receipts. Its components include donations from individuals, foundations, and companies, grants from government entities, investments, and/or membership fees. Nonprofit revenue may be earned via fundraising events or unsolicited donations.


  Real Estate Revenue  

In terms of real estate investments, revenue refers to the income generated by a property, such as rent or parking fees or rent. When the operating expenses incurred in running the property are subtracted from property income, the resulting value is net operating income (NOI). Vacant real estate technically does not earn any operating revenue, though the owner of the property may be required to report fair market value adjustments that result in gains when externally reporting their finances.




What Does Revenue in Business Mean?
Revenue is the money earned by a company obtained primarily from the sale of its products or services to customers. There are specific accounting rules that dictate when, how, and why a company recognizes revenue. For instance, a company may receive cash from a client. However, a company may not be able to recognize revenue until they've performed their part of the contractual obligation.




Are Revenue and Cash Flow the Same Thing?
No. Revenue is the money a company earns from the sale of its products and services. Cash flow is the net amount of cash being transferred into and out of a company. Revenue provides a measure of the effectiveness of a company's sales and marketing, whereas cash flow is more of a liquidity indicator.  Both revenue and cash flow should be analyzed together for a comprehensive review of a company's financial health.




What Is the Difference Between Revenue and Income?
Revenue and income are sometimes used interchangeably. However, these two terms do usually mean different things. Revenue is often used to measure the total amount of sales a company from its goods and services. Income is often used to incorporate expenses and report the net proceeds a company has earned.




How Does One Generate and Calculate Revenue?
For many companies, revenues are generated from the sales of products or services. For this reason, revenue is sometimes known as gross sales. Revenue can also be earned via other sources. Inventors or entertainers may receive revenue from licensing, patents, or royalties. Real estate investors might earn revenue from rental income.Revenue for federal and local governments would likely be in the form of tax receipts from property or income taxes. Governments might also earn revenue from the sale of an asset or interest income from a bond. Charities and non-profit organizations usually receive income from donations and grants. Universities could earn revenue from charging tuition but also from investment gains on their endowment fund.




What Is Accrued and Deferred Revenue?
Accrued revenue is the revenue earned by a company for the delivery of goods or services that have yet to be paid by the customer. In accrual accounting, revenue is reported at the time a sales transaction takes place and may not necessarily represent cash in hand.Deferred, or unearned revenue can be thought of as the opposite of accrued revenue, in that unearned revenue accounts for money prepaid by a customer for goods or services that have yet to be delivered. If a company has received prepayment for its goods, it would recognize the revenue as unearned, but would not recognize the revenue on its income statement until the period for which the goods or services were delivered.
What Is a Revenue Agent's Report?  

The Revenue Agent’s Report (RAR) is a detailed document that describes an IRS examiner's audit findings and states the amount of deficiency or refund the agent finds the taxpayer to owe or be owed, respectively.﻿﻿ Taxpayers have the right to disagree with a revenue agent's report and can choose to fight the agent's findings through a formal protest to the IRS Office of Appeals division by appealing to the U.S. Tax Court, or by paying the new assessment but then suing for a refund.﻿﻿





Key Takeaways

A revenue agent's report (RAR) details the results and findings of an IRS audit, including calculations related to any back-taxes that may be owed along with penalty amounts.Taxpayers may challenge the findings in an RAR via tax court proceedings.If the RAR is unchallenged or upheld, delinquent taxpayers may subject to increased fines or jail time if they fail to reconcile their tax situation.


   Understanding the Revenue Agent's Report  

The Revenue Agent’s Report (RAR) shows how any adjustments made to a taxpayer’s liability was calculated, including the procedures applied, tests performed, information obtained, and the conclusions reached in the examination. The report (Form 4549: Income Tax Examination Changes) shows the changes to items of income, credits, and deductions an examiner or agent is proposing to the taxpayer’s return in addition to the proposed taxes, penalties, and interest, if any. Form 4549 is also accompanied by Form 886A, which explains the reason for the IRS changing a taxpayer’s return.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿



The bottom line of the RAR states whether the taxpayer underpaid, overpaid, or paid the correct amount of taxes. If the taxpayer overpaid, s/he receives a tax refund. If s/he underpaid, s/he must pay additional taxes, often with interest and penalties. If an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) agent’s report following an audit on a taxpayer’s return results in changes to the taxpayer’s federal taxable income, the IRS will send a notice of final determination to the taxpayer. Upon receiving the notice, a taxpayer has 30 days to appeal the changes with the IRS Office of Appeals.﻿﻿


   Consequences of an RAR  

The IRS notifies state tax authorities when it issues a RAR. State laws require that if the federal government changes a taxpayer's liability, the taxpayer must file an amended state return within 30 to 90 days following the final determination of the IRS audit. States require that the taxpayer redetermine their state tax liabilities, taking into account the adjustments reflected in the RAR, and provide notification to applicable state tax authorities regarding any related impact.﻿﻿ States have this requirement because the tax liability for any given state is based on federal tax liability.



If a taxpayer is deemed to owe more federal tax than what was paid, the taxpayer likely owes more to the state as well. This statute applies whether the taxpayer is an individual or a business. If the taxpayer pays tax in multiple states, the compliance process can be quite burdensome.
What Is a Revenue Bond?  

A revenue bond is a category of municipal bond supported by the revenue from a specific project, such as a toll bridge, highway, or local stadium. Revenue bonds that finance income-producing projects are thus secured by a specified revenue source. Typically, revenue bonds can be issued by any government agency or fund that is managed in the manner of a business, such as entities having both operating revenues and expenses.



Revenue bonds, which are also called municipal revenue bonds, differ from general obligation bonds (GO bonds) that can be repaid through a variety of tax sources.





Key Takeaways

Revenue bonds are a class of municipal bonds issued to fund public projects which then repay investors from the income created by that project.For instance, a toll road or utility can be financed with municipal bonds with creditors' interest and principal repaid from the tolls or fees collected.Revenue bonds, unlike GO bonds, are project-specific and are not funded by taxpayers.


   Understanding Revenue Bonds  

A revenue bond repays creditors from income generated by the project that the bond itself is funding, such as a toll road or bridge. While a revenue bond is backed by a specific revenue stream, holders of GO bonds are relying on the full faith and credit of the issuing municipality. Typically, since holders of revenue bonds can only rely on the specific project's income, it has a higher risk than GO bonds and pays a higher rate of interest.



Broadly, several types of revenue bonds are commonly issued by state and local governments:



An airport revenue bond is a type of municipal bond issued by a municipality or airport authority that uses the revenues of the airport facility to back the bond. In some cases, the airport revenue bond is a type of public-purpose bond. However if more than 10% of the benefit from the airport will go to the private sector, the bond will be a private bond.
A toll revenue bond is a type of municipal security used to build a public project such as a bridge, tunnel, or expressway. Revenues from tolls paid by users of the public project pay the principal and interest payments on the bond.
Utility revenue bonds (essential services bonds) are municipal debt securities that are designed to finance public utility projects. The utility is required to repay bondholders directly from project revenues rather than a general tax fund.
A hospital revenue bond is a type of municipal bond intended to support the construction of new hospitals, nursing homes, or related facilities. The bonds can also be used to purchase new equipment for these facilities or to finance upgrades for existing hospitals. The revenue created by the hospitals is then used to repay bondholders.
Mortgage revenue bonds (MRBs) are bonds issued by local or state Housing Finance Agencies (HFAs). Also known as housing bonds, the HFA will issue tax-free bonds to investors. Funding from the sale of these bonds is then used to finance affordable mortgages for low- and middle-income people. 
Industrial revenue bonds (IRBs) are municipal debt securities issued by a government agency on behalf of a private sector company and intended to build or acquire factories or other heavy equipment and tools.


   Structure of Revenue Bonds  

Typically, revenue bonds mature in 20 to 30 years and can be issued in various increments, including $1,000 and $5,000. The value of the bond is called the bond's face value, which is the amount paid to the investor or bondholder at the bond's maturity. Some revenue bonds have staggered maturity dates and do not mature at the same time. These are known as serial bonds.



Investors can purchase a revenue bond by paying the face value amount of the bond upfront and, in return, are paid interest over the life of the bond. At the bond's maturity, the face value amount is returned to the investor provided there was sufficient revenue from the project to pay back the bond. If there is insufficient revenue generated from the project, investors are at risk of losing their total investment.



For example, if a revenue bond is issued to build a new toll road, the tolls that are collected from motorists who drive on the road would be used to pay off the bond, after the building expenses have been paid. A primary reason for using revenue bonds is that they allow the municipality to avoid reaching legislated debt limits. An agency that is run solely on tax dollars, such as a public school, cannot issue revenue bonds, since these entities would be unable to pay off the bond using revenues from the specific project.


   Real-Life Examples  

St. Louis, Missouri, engages in tax-exempt revenue bond financing. Typical projects funded this way are multi-family housing, in which a minimum of 20% of the units are set aside for households meeting income guidelines; publicly owned facilities; pollution control facilities; and various fixed assets such as land/buildings. The maturity of most of the issues is 20 to 30 years, and interest earned is generally tax-exempt from federal and most state income taxes. This also allows the issuer to pay a lower interest rate.



New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) decided to offer Green Bonds in February 2016. The MTA is using the $500 million of proceeds to pay for planned infrastructure renewal projects, including upgrades on its railroads. The bonds, issued under MTA's Transportation Revenue Bond, are backed by the agency's operating revenue and subsidies received from New York State.
What Is a Revenue Cap Regulation?  

Revenue cap regulation seeks to limit the amount of total revenue that can be earned by a firm operating in an industry with no or few other competitors. An industry such as this, where one or a few companies control the entire production and sale of a good or service, is known as a monopoly or a concentrated industry.



Revenue cap regulation is a form of incentive regulation that uses rewards and penalties and allows producers some discretion to reach the desired outcome for society. Revenue cap regulation is common in the utility sector, which includes many industries with monopolies sanctioned by a government, or franchised monopoly industries.





Key Takeaways

Revenue cap regulation seeks to limit the amount of total revenue that can be earned by a firm operating in an industry with no or few other competitors.Revenue cap regulation is a form of incentive regulation that uses rewards and penalties and allows producers some discretion to reach the desired outcome for society.Revenue cap regulation is common in the utility sector, which includes many industries with monopolies sanctioned by a government.


   How Revenue Cap Regulation Works  

Governmental regulatory authorities impose revenue cap regulations on industries that have regulated monopolies, such as gas, water, and electric utility producers. Because these industries supply essential services to the populace, regulators seeking to balance the availability, affordability, and quality of the service with the costs incurred by producers to provide the service.



Revenue cap regulation is similar to price cap regulation, which seeks to control the prices companies can charge, and rate of return regulation, which seeks to control the rate of return earned by companies.



Regulators can adjust revenue caps over time, with adjustments typically based on a formula incorporating increases in inflation and a factor that favorably considers gains in efficiency. Inflation refers to the rate at which the value of money falls (or occasionally rises) over time; as inflation rises, revenue caps generally rise as well.



Gains in efficiency in the usage or production of a utility over time are also encouraged by revenue cap regulation. For example, because revenue cap regulation determines a level of revenue per year that a firm can collect from its customer base, producers have an incentive to encourage minimal demand per customer through the efficient use of energy (since they will not make any revenue from excess demand beyond the regulated revenue cap). Gains in efficiency generally result in an increase in the revenue cap imposed on a company as well.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Revenue Cap Regulation  

Revenue cap regulation can encourage improvements in efficiency—both in production by the regulated company and by users of the utility. They can also encourage a company to reduce its costs in order to maximize profit on the maximum revenue it is allowed to earn.



However, revenue caps may also encourage firms to set prices above where they would be in an unregulated environment, and they may discourage utility companies from adding customers regardless of the benefit to society.
What Is a Revenue Deficit?  

A revenue deficit occurs when realized net income is less than the projected net income. This happens when the actual amount of revenue and the actual amount of expenditures do not correspond with budgeted revenue and expenditures. This is the opposite of a revenue surplus, which occurs when the actual amount of net income exceeds the projected amount.





Key Takeaways

A revenue deficit does not mean loss of revenues has occurred—it's simply measuring the difference between a projected amount of income and the actual amount of income.If a business or government has a revenue deficit that means its earnings aren't enough to cover its basic operations.Organizations can avoid future revenue deficits by identifying and implementing cost-cutting measures.


   Understanding Revenue Deficit  

A revenue deficit, not to be confused with a fiscal deficit, measures the difference between the projected amount of income and the actual amount of income. If a business or government has a revenue deficit that means its income isn't enough to cover its basic operations. When that happens, it may make up for the revenue it needs to cover by borrowing money or selling existing assets.



To remedy a revenue deficit, a government can choose to raise taxes or cut expenses. Similarly, a company with a revenue deficit can make improvements by cutting variable costs, such as materials and labor. Fixed costs are more difficult to adjust because most are established by contracts, such as a building lease.






A revenue deficit is not indicative of a loss of revenue.


   Disadvantages of Revenue Deficit  

If not remedied, a revenue deficit could adversely affect the credit rating of a government or business. That's because consistently running a deficit could imply that a government is unable to meet its current and future recurring obligations. It also implies that the government or business will have to disinvest or cover the shortage by borrowing. 



Running a revenue deficit places many planned government expenditures in jeopardy as there are not enough funds to cover the costs. Often, a government with a revenue deficit is using savings allocated to other divisions of the economy for its expenditures. 


   Example of Revenue Deficit  

Company ABC projected its 2021 revenue to be $100 million and expenditures to be $80 million for a projected net income of $20 million. At the end of the year, the company found that its actual revenue was $85 million, and its expenditures were $83 million, for a realized net income of $2 million. That resulted in a revenue deficit of $18 million.



The projections for both the expenditures and revenues were off, which could negatively affect future operations and cash flows. If the subject of this example were a government, funding for required public expenditures, such as for infrastructure and schools, could be seriously compromised.



By identifying and employing cost-cutting measures, the company can avoid revenue deficits in the future. It can explore more cost-efficient ways of doing business, such as finding suppliers who can supply materials at a lower cost or by vertically integrating processes along its supply chain. The company can also invest in training its workforce to be more productive.




How Is Revenue Deficit Different From Fiscal Deficit?
A revenue deficit records the difference between the projected amount of income and what the income actually was. A fiscal deficit is when a government is spending beyond its means, or there is a shortfall in income compared with spending.




How Is a Revenue Deficit Calculated?
You can calculate a business or government's revenue deficit by taking the total revenue expenditure and subtracting it from total revenue receipts.




How Can A Revenue Deficit Be Reduced?
A business or government can remedy a revenue deficit by borrowing or raising money, or by cutting expenses or selling assets.
What Is a Revenue Generating Unit (RGU)?  

A revenue generating unit (RGU) is an individual service subscriber who generates recurring revenue for a company. This is used as a performance measure for management, analysts, and investors.



RGUs are tracked by telecom companies, cable companies, and other businesses that have a base of subscribers for a service. RGU growth can occur organically or through acquisitions.





Key Takeaways

A revenue generating unit (RGU) refers to a service subscriber or user that creates ongoing sources of income for a firm.Telecom, media, and internet services companies are most likely to keep track of RGU data and to try to increase RGU flows.The average revenue per unit measures the mean revenue generated per RGU.


   Understanding Revenue Generating Units (RGUs)  

Revenue generating units (RGUs) are subscribers—either individuals or businesses, but most commonly applied to individuals—who pay for monthly services such as mobile phones, internet, streaming services, or cable TV.



RGUs as a term has become interchangeable with "customer relationships," "customers" or simply "subscribers," where users are the "units" in question. Whatever a company decides to name them, it compiles this data, segments, and analyzes. RGU figures are often used to calculate average revenue per unit/user (ARPU), another key metric for the telecom and cable industries.



A company is interested in net additions to RGUs. It will analyze where RGUs were added geographically and in which product lines. The company will attempt to attribute these gains in subscribers to a particular marketing campaign or change in the competitive landscape. Similarly, if there were RGU losses, it would try to determine the reasons and take steps to address the attrition.


   Finding RGU Data  

Liberty Global Group is a good example of a company that breaks down its RGU data.



Its quarterly 10-Q and annual 10-K filings contain RGU tables that segment cable service type (voice, video, data), mobile service type (prepaid, postpaid), and by countries where the company operates. Net additions or losses of RGUs are then discussed in the company's MD&A, or management discussion and analysis.


   Average Revenue Per Unit (ARPU)  

The average revenue per unit is equivalent to total revenue divided by average units (or users) during a period. The period-end date is not the measure date for the denominator because the number of units can fluctuate intra-period. Instead, the beginning of the period and the end of the period numbers are typically averaged.



However, the number of units or users may not remain constant throughout the standard time period. It can vary somewhat from day to day, as new users appear or old users cease to take advantage of a service. Therefore, the number of units for a given period must be estimated in order to give the most accurate ARPU figure possible for that period.



In order to accurately calculate ARPU, one must first define a standard time period. Most telephone and communications carriers, for example, calculate ARPU on a month-to-month basis. The total revenue generated during the standard time period should then be divided by the number of units or users.
What Is a Revenue Officer?  

A revenue officer is an employee of a government or a public agency who collects delinquent taxes or fees. The job is performed on a case-by-case basis and generally involves directly contacting individuals or businesses that are in arrears on payments.



At the federal level, revenue officers are employed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the United States and the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) in Canada. State and local tax departments also employ revenue officers. In some cases, the job title may be tax collector.



In the U.S., revenue officers are not revenue agents. The latter job title is held by auditors who review tax filings to identify any errors or discrepancies.





Key Takeaways

Revenue officers are responsible for collecting taxes or duties owed to a government or public agency.In the U.S., revenue officers are tax collectors, while revenue agents are auditors.Although they are government officials, revenue officers don't carry firearms and have no authority to arrest taxpayers.


   Responsibilities of a Revenue Officer  

Revenue officers are primarily involved in collecting debts owed to the agencies for which they work. Their roles in the U.S. and in Canada differ somewhat.



In Canada, excise tax revenue officers have audit, advisory, and legal roles.



In the U.S., the primary responsibility of revenue officers who work for the IRS is collecting delinquent and overdue tax returns.



An IRS revenue officer also:



Conducts face-to-face interviews with taxpayers
Obtains and analyzes revenue and financial information to ascertain a person's or company's ability to pay the tax bill
Design payment plans to help those with tax arrears pay them over time
Garnishes wages and seizes personal property to pay off delinquent taxes



A revenue officer with the IRS may also file for extensions on the statutes of limitations for tax collection and initiate administrative and judicial action.



This position is often confused with that of a revenue agent, who conducts audits of tax returns.






There have been reports of phone scammers claiming to be IRS revenue officers. The IRS has a consumer site with regular updates on the latest tax-related scams.


   Special Considerations  

While they are government employees, IRS revenue officers do not carry firearms or have the authority to arrest taxpayers.



One of their primary duties is to help create a payment plan for collecting any unpaid taxes. The officer may also seek an unannounced, in-person visit with the delinquent taxpayer. This is known as a field audit.


  Job Outlook  

The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) groups together examiners, collectors, and revenue agents into one category in its Occupational Outlook Handbook.



These professionals earned an average annual salary of $56,780 per year in 2021. That translates to $27.30 per hour. The number of jobs in the field in 2021 totaled 55,300.



Job growth in this field is expected to decline by 7% by 2031.


   Revenue Officers vs. Revenue Agents  

While a revenue officer actually collects taxes, revenue agents handle tax audits. Revenue officers for tax agencies cover the more difficult tax cases. When the IRS isn't able to collect by means of letters, phone calls, tax levies, or garnishments, they send revenue officers. These officers have the authority to seize and sell assets to cover tax liabilities. They can also approve or reject payment plans.



The role of a revenue agent is to determine tax liability via an audit. The audit that agents carry out is also known as an examination. As such, these individuals work directly with taxpayers, their representatives, tax preparers, and tax lawyers.






IRS revenue officers carry two forms of official identification: a pocket commission and a standardized federal identity credential known as an HSPD-12 card.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


How Can I Become a Revenue Officer?
A bachelor's degree is required, preferably with a concentration in mathematics, statistics, or economics.




How Much Do Revenue Officers Make?
These professionals earned an average annual salary of $56,780 per year in 2021. This is a job in public service, so substantial salary differences can be expected depending on the town, city, or state that is doing the hiring.




What Is a Chief Revenue Officer?
A chief revenue officer (CRO) is a senior executive in a corporation.Some companies appoint a chief revenue officer to oversee all revenue-generating functions of the business. They oversee the strategy for revenue generation over the long term. The CRO reports to the chief financial officer (CFO).This is a relatively new job title, born in Silicon Valley to maximize revenue opportunities created by digital products and services. It is particularly common in the software-as-a-service (SaaS) industry.
What Is Revenue Passenger Mile?  

A revenue passenger mile (RPM) is a transportation industry metric that shows the number of miles traveled by paying passengers and is typically an airline traffic statistic. Revenue passenger miles are calculated by multiplying the number of paying passengers by the distance traveled. For example, an airplane with 100 passengers that flies 250 miles has generated 25,000 RPM.





Key Takeaways

Revenue passenger mile (RPM) is a transportation industry metric primarily used by the airline industry to show the number of miles traveled by paying passengers.Available seat miles (ASM) measures an airplane's carrying capacity available to generate revenue.The load factor is a percentage that reflects how effective an airline is at earning revenue.To calculate an airline's load factor, divide the airline's revenue passenger mile by its available seat miles.A high load factor indicates an airline is efficient at selling seats and generating income.


   Understanding Revenue Passenger Mile  

Revenue passenger miles are the backbone of most transportation metrics. RPM is often compared to available seat miles (ASM), a measure of an airplane's total carrying capacity available to generate income. By dividing RPM by ASM, an airline can calculate load factors.



The load factor is a percentage indicating how effective the airline is at selling seats and earning revenue. Higher load factors, obviously, are desired because empty seats are an opportunity cost for an airline. RPM is an asset utilization metric that calculates the rate of utilization or occupancy of the airplane by the travelers. This metric overlooks the dollar amount factor. That's because even if the load factor is high, it will remain to be known what fare price is needed to determine the dollar amount of revenues.



The Department of Transportation's (DOT) Bureau of Transportation Statistics maintains datasets of aggregate RPM as well as ASM for domestic and international flights. For February 2021, domestic and international U.S. air carrier RPM was 26.5 billion against 49.5 billion ASM, which translated into a load factor of 0.53%.



RPM shows traffic volume, but it goes hand-in-hand with ASM to give airline management critical data about how many seats it must fill to achieve greater profitability.


   Airline RPM Reporting  

Airlines report RPM statistics on a monthly and year-to-date basis. Three of the largest U.S. carriers each had over 55 billion RPM in 2020. American Airlines recorded 71.2 billion RPM, Delta Airlines registered 61.2 billion RPM, and United Airlines had 57.1 billion RPM.



In conjunction with the ASM data, it was demonstrated that American was the most efficient in loading its fleet during the year. American's load factor was 0.64%, slightly higher than United's 0.60% and Delta's 0.56%.


   RPM Around the World  

As more people take to the skies to travel within their own countries and to foreign lands, RPM (or RPK for countries on the metric system) will only grow. This is especially true for developing countries that are just beginning massive build-outs of their airport infrastructure to keep pace with their economic growth rates.



This airline traffic statistic will help governments plan airport capacity and slots for individual airlines. Aircraft makers, led by the duopoly of Boeing and Airbus, keep an eye on the longer-term trends in RPM to plan their future production of planes.



Whether based in Asia, Europe, or Latin America, airline companies need to compile this key traffic volume statistic to assist in their forward business strategies to attract passengers in the intensely competitive market.
What Is Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR)?  

Revenue per available room (RevPAR) is a metric used in the hospitality industry to measure hotel performance. The measurement is calculated by multiplying a hotel's average daily room rate (ADR) by its occupancy rate. RevPAR is also calculated by dividing a hotel's total room revenue by the total number of available rooms in the period being measured.





Key Takeaways

Revenue per available room (RevPAR) is a performance measure used in the hospitality industry.RevPAR is calculated by multiplying a hotel's average daily room rate by its occupancy rate. RevPAR is also calculated by dividing total room revenue by the total number of rooms available in the period being measured.RevPAR reflects a property's ability to fill its available rooms at an average rate.An increase in a property's RevPAR does not necessarily mean greater profits.






An increase in a property's RevPAR most likely indicates an improvement in occupancy rate.


   Understanding Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR)  

RevPAR is a metric used in the hospitality industry to assess a property's ability to fill its available rooms at an average rate. An increase in a property's RevPAR means that its average room rate or its occupancy rate is improving. However, an increase in RevPAR does not necessarily mean better performance.



RevPAR fails to consider the size of a hotel. Therefore, RevPAR alone is not a good measure of overall performance. A hotel may have a lower RevPAR but still have more rooms that earn higher revenues. In addition, certain larger rooms (i.e. penthouses) may overcompensate for lower quality rooms that are not being checked or are unavailable.



Like other financial metrics, RevPAR is best suited as a comparison tool. A hotel can compare its own RevPAR statistics over time to see whether the metric fluctuates with seasons or changes due to consumer preference. In addition, RevPAR can be used to compare against other hotels in the area to get a better sense of how one hotel may be performing compared to other. Keep in mind that this financial performance is limited to just revenue and does not consider expenses.






It may be difficult to compare RevPAR with other hotels because the revenue and occupancy information may not be readily available. Therefore, management must be prepared to set internal RevPAR targets.


   How to Calculate RevPAR  

There are two ways to calculate RevPAR. First, hotel management can take the total amount of room rent revenue and divide it by the total rooms available to have been rented. Note that the total rooms available includes rooms that were available but were not occupied for this calculation.












RevPAR


=




Total


 


Revenue




Number


 


of


 


Rooms


 


Available









\begin{aligned}\textbf{RevPAR} = \frac{\textbf{Total Revenue}}{\textbf{Number of Rooms Available}}\end{aligned}


RevPAR=Number of Rooms AvailableTotal Revenue​​



Alternatively, hotel management can calculate RevPAR by taking the average daily rate of revenue and multiply it by the occupancy rate. This method is more appropriate and more accurate for fully-occupied hotels with limited rooms that are unavailable as it is based on total occupancy, not total availability.


















RevPAR


=



Average


 


Daily


 


Rate



×



Occupancy


 


Rate








\begin{aligned}&\textbf{RevPAR}=\textbf{Average Daily Rate}\times\textbf{Occupancy Rate}\end{aligned}


​RevPAR=Average Daily Rate×Occupancy Rate​



Either formula returns a dollar amount that is theoretically lower than the actual actual daily rate (as a hotel can not be or at least should not be occupied past 100%).


   How to Improve RevPAR  

Increasing RevPAR means a hotel is earning more money for every room it has. There are many ways hotel management can strive to make these improvements.



Forecast Demand More Accurately. Demand for hotel rooms wax and wane, and hotels must be aware of what is going on around them to better understand consumer trends. In theory, this allows for hotels to charge higher prices during peak demand seasons and lower prices during slower seasons. This information also helps determine if and how much of a discount the hotel should offer for soon-to-be unoccupied rooms for an evening.
Require Longer Stays. By requiring guests to stay a minimum number of nights, a hotel runs the risk of losing business to hotels willing to offer greater flexibility. However, it also gambles on the opportunity that locking in customers for longer stays will result in a business that would have not otherwise occurred. To incentivize longer stays, some hotels may offer pricing discounts or promotional packages. 
Excel at Customer Service. Sometimes, a financial goal of increasing revenue is best met by meeting non-financial service targets. In this case, guests are more likely to return to a hotel after a great experience and more likely to not award repeat business after a poor one. Though RevPAR may not immediately see a rise as customer service improves, long-term revenue trends may benefit as guests return and recommend certain hotels to their network.
Leverage technology. Another way to improve RevPAR is to make it as easy as possible for a guest to not only book a room but access all the help and information they need to make the decision to stay at a specific location. This includes having a robust online booking system, central reservation system to most efficiently coordinate bookings, and a helpful location to outline frequently asked questions. This may also entail striving to build out an e-mail distribution list to better communicate and stay in contact with former guests.






Some hotels require a minimum stay should their rooms be booked by a third-party (i.e. Expedia). To compensate for the fees they'll need to pay the third-party booking company, the hotel can earn more money by requiring a longer stay.


   Alternatives to RevPAR  

RevPAR is a common metric useful in comparing figures across brands and locations. However, RevPAR does not use any profitability measures or information on profits. Focusing solely on RevPAR, therefore, can lead to declines in both revenue and profitability as it does not inform users of expenses.



Many hotel managers prefer to use the average daily rate as a performance measure since it is among the main drivers of hotel occupancy. Therefore, with accurately priced rooms, the occupancy rate should increase, and a property's RevPAR should also naturally increase. Properties may also opt for a similar but slightly different formula by only considering the occupied rooms and measuring RevPOR.



In addition, there are several other "per available room" metrics used in the hotel industry.


  TRevPAR (Total Revenue Per Available Room)  

Total revenue per available room (TRevPAR) is similar to RevPAR. However, it also includes revenue earned by amenities such as spas, pools, entertainment areas, and restaurants. Though TRevPAR faces the same downside as RevPAR by not considering expenses, it also gives a greater holistic view about what revenue is earned for every available room.



















Calculation:


 





Total


 


Revenue




Number


 


of


 


Available


 


Rooms









\begin{aligned}&\textit{Calculation: } \frac{\textit{Total Revenue}}{\textit{Number of Available Rooms}}\end{aligned}


​Calculation: Number of Available RoomsTotal Revenue​​


  ARPAR (Adjusted Revenue Per Available Room)  

Adjusted revenue per room factors in variable costs and variable revenue. It manipulates average daily rate by subtracting the variable expenses such as the cleaning, utility, water, internet, TV, and supplies expenses. However, ARPAR also factors in additional revenue such as room service that may otherwise be subtracted from RevPAR. ARPAR starts to factor in expenses, though it still omits many overhead costs needed to operate a hotel.



















Calculation:


 


(ADR



−


VCpOR


+


ARpOR)


×


OR
















where:
















ADR


=


Average daily rate
















VCpOR


=


Variable cost per occupied room
















ARpOR


=


Additional revenue per occupied room
















OR


=


Occupancy rate







\begin{aligned}&\textit{Calculation: (ADR} - \textit{VCpOR} + \textit{ARpOR)}\times\textit{OR}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{ADR}=\text{Average daily rate}\\&\text{VCpOR}=\text{Variable cost per occupied room}\\&\text{ARpOR}=\text{Additional revenue per occupied room}\\&\text{OR}=\text{Occupancy rate}\end{aligned}


​Calculation: (ADR−VCpOR+ARpOR)×ORwhere:ADR=Average daily rateVCpOR=Variable cost per occupied roomARpOR=Additional revenue per occupied roomOR=Occupancy rate​


  GOPPAR (Gross Operating Profit Per Available Room)  

Gross operating profit per available room takes a larger view at an operating property by factoring in even more expenses, especially those for rooms that are not occupied. The downside to GOPPAR is it may include expenses that are not controllable by hotel management.



















Calculation:


 





Gross


 


Operating


 


Profit




Number


 


of


 


Available


 


Rooms









\begin{aligned}&\textit{Calculation: }\frac{\textit{Gross Operating Profit}}{\textit{Number of Available Rooms}}\end{aligned}


​Calculation: Number of Available RoomsGross Operating Profit​​


   RevPAR Example  

Imagine a hotel has a total of 150 rooms, of which the average occupancy rate is 90%. The average cost for a room is $100 a night. A hotel wants to know its RevPAR so it can accurately assess its performance. The hotel manager can calculate the RevPAR as follows:


















(


$


100


 per night 


×


90


%


 occupancy rate)


=


$


90







\begin{aligned}&(\$100 \text{ per night }\times 90\% \text{ occupancy rate)} = \$90\end{aligned}


​($100 per night ×90% occupancy rate)=$90​



The hotel's RevPAR is, therefore, $90.00 per day. To find the monthly or quarterly RevPAR, multiply the daily RevPAR by the number of days in the desired period. This calculation assumes all rooms are the same price.



The hotel manager can make key assessments and decisions regarding the hotel property based on the RevPAR. The manager can see how well the hotel is filling its rooms and how wisely the average hotel room is priced. With a $90 RevPAR but a $100 average room, the hotel manager could reduce the average rate to $90 to help realize full capacity.




What Does RevPAR Tell You?
RevPAR is a metric used in the hospitality industry to assess a property's ability to fill its available rooms at an average rate. An increase in a property's RevPAR means that its average room rate or its occupancy rate is improving. Since it tells you the revenue per available room, whether it's occupied or not, it can aid hoteliers in accurately pricing their rooms. Additionally, RevPAR can form the basis for measuring properties against each other.




Where Does RevPAR Fail?
An increase in RevPAR does not necessarily mean better performance so using this alone to measure overall performance might lead to inaccurate results. Also, RevPAR fails to consider the size of a hotel. A hotel may have a lower RevPAR but still have more rooms that earn higher revenues. Additionally, growth in RevPAR does not mean that a hotel's profits are increasing. This is because RevPAR does not use any profitability measures or information on profits.




Should RevPAR Be High or Low?
For almost all hotels, RevPAR should be higher as this indicates a company is earning more revenue per available room. However, there are several things to consider. First, even though the hotel may be able to charge more, RevPAR does not consider expenses and a company may be better suited avoiding certain expenses and charging less.Second, a hotel's RevPAR should be in line with its strategic plan and business motel. Hotels aiming to be budget-friendly may want to have a fairly low RevPAR; otherwise, they'll be known for their higher prices and their operating model may have failed.


   The Bottom Line  

The hotel industry often utilizes RevPAR (revenue per available room) to gauge how a hotel's financial performance is going. RevPAR does not measure a hotel's profitability, and some hotels may want to be considerate of not having a RevPAR too high to best match consumer preferences. RevPAR can be used to compare against competitors, track over time, or assess where the hotel can immediately improve operationally.
What Is Revenue Per Available Seat Mile (RASM)?  

Revenue per available seat mile (RASM) is a unit of measurement commonly used to compare the efficiency of various airlines. It is obtained by dividing operating income by available seat miles (ASM). Generally, the higher the RASM, the more profitable the airline under question. Revenue is represented in cents and is not solely limited to ticket sales, as other factors of efficiency and profitability are taken into account.





Key Takeaways

Airlines use revenue per available seat mile (RASM) to measure the total operating revenue they generate per seat (empty or full) per mile flown.Airlines favor using RASM as a metric to show their financial performance because it includes additional sources of revenue, such as baggage fees, reservation change fees, and inflight meals.The calculation for revenue per available seat mile (RASM) is total operating revenues divided by the available seat miles.


   Understanding Revenue Per Available Seat Mile (RASM)  

Revenue per available seat mile (RASM) is a term airlines use to describe and evaluate their financial performance. Revenue per available seat mile (RASM) is more encompassing than total revenue because it factors in all operating revenue, in terms of capacity, rather than just passenger revenue.



Revenue per available seat mile (RASM) has been adopted as a favorite standard unit of measurement by most airlines and investment analysts that follow the airlines. Critics contend, however, that airlines, like most businesses, have traditionally favored the use of metrics that can cast them in the best possible light.



By explicitly including all sources of revenue, RASM includes the myriad of revenue sources air carriers have experimented with including fees or charges for baggage, seat selection, food and drink, and Wi-Fi. Airlines list their RASM—also referred to as "operating unit revenue"—in their quarterly and annual financial statements.


   Calculating Revenue Per Available Seat Mile (RASM)  

The RASM represents the total operating revenue per seat (empty or full) flown per mile. In order to calculate their RASM for a given period, an airline divides its total operating revenues by the available seat miles:



RASM = Total Operating Revenues/Available Seat Miles.



Total operating revenue is the income the airline generates from its primary business activities. This includes the money airlines make from selling tickets and money from seat upgrades, baggage fees, food and beverages, and reservation change fees.



Available seat miles (ASM) measures the carrying capacity of an airplane that's available to generate revenue. To calculate seat miles, the airline multiplies the available seats on a plane by the number of miles that plane will fly per flight.






Airlines include income derived from their normal everyday business operations in their RASM calculation and exclude one-time operating adjustments or events, such as the sale of company assets.


   Revenue Per Available Seat Mile (RASM) vs. Cost Per Available Seat Mile (CASM)  

Cost per available seat mile (CASM)—also known as "unit cost" or "operating expenses per ASM"—is another common metric airlines use to measure efficiency and performance. CASM is a measure of cost efficiency and represents the average cost to fly an aircraft seat (either empty or ticketed) one mile. CASM differs from RASM in a significant way. While RASM focuses on revenues earned, CASM focuses on expenses impacting an airline's bottom line.



Airlines include various operating costs in their CASM calculation, such as operating expenses, maintenance expenses, administration, and overhead. One criticism of CASM is that some airlines exclude fuel costs in their calculation, which then calls into question the accuracy of the metric.



To calculate CASM, the airlines divide their operating costs by the available seat miles. The CASM is measured in cents. Airlines generally report this metric on their quarterly and annual financial statements. A low CASM indicates the airline is efficient at managing its costs, which could lead to higher profit margins. 



This contrasts with RASM, which measures the revenue or income the airline generates. Airlines aim for a high and growing RASM as a measurement of financial strength.


   Special Considerations  

Revenue per available seat mile (RASM) is an especially important metric for low-cost airlines. Many of these airlines discount the cost of their basic fares significantly in order to attract customers. Very similar to the loss leader strategy common in retail sales, the airlines know the revenue they generate from these basic fares will probably not be enough to maintain profitability.



Instead, the airline will need to become adept at upselling, or enticing the customer to purchase additional items, such as inflight entertainment, meals, and beverages. Because RASM includes these forms of revenue, it's an important metric in tracking an airline's financial performance.
What Is Revenue per Employee?  

Revenue per employee—calculated as a company's total revenue divided by its current number of employees—is an important ratio that roughly measures how much money each employee generates for the firm. The revenue-per-employee ratio is most useful when looking at historical changes in a company's own ratio or when comparing it against that of other companies in the same industry as part of a fundamental analysis.





Key Takeaways

Revenue per employee is an important ratio that roughly measures how much money each employee generates for the company.To calculate a company's revenue per employee, divide the company's total revenue by its current number of employees.Ideally, a company wants the highest ratio of revenue per employee possible because a higher ratio indicates greater productivity, which often translates to more profits for the company.For the revenue-per-employee ratio to be useful, it should be used when comparing and analyzing companies in the same industry.Other factors that can impact the revenue-per-employee ratio include employee turnover and the age of the company.


   How Revenue per Employee Works  

Revenue per employee is a meaningful analytical tool because it measures how efficiently a particular firm utilizes its employees. Ideally, a company wants the highest ratio of revenue per employee possible because a higher ratio indicates greater productivity. Revenue per employee also suggests that a company is using its resources—in this case, its investment in human capital—wisely by developing workers who are very productive. Companies with high revenue-per-employee ratios are often profitable.



Some analysts use a variation of the revenue per employee ratio. In this ratio, they replace revenue with net income. A ratio similar to revenue per employee is sales per employee, which is calculated by dividing a company's annual sales by its total employees.


   Factors Affecting the Ratio of Revenue per Employee  
  The Company's Industry  

Because labor demand varies from industry to industry, it is most meaningful to compare a business's revenue per employee with that of other companies in its industry—especially with its direct competitors. This ratio has little value out of context.



Traditional banking, for example, requires many employees to staff brick-and-mortar locations and answer customer questions. This contrasts with online banks, which conduct business on the Internet and have no need to staff physical locations with employees. Thus, a banker would want to compare its company's revenue per employee ratio with that of similar types of banking institutions. Companies in labor-intensive industries like agriculture and hospitality typically have lower revenue-per-employee ratios than companies that require less labor.


  Employee Turnover  

Revenue per employee is affected by a company’s employee turnover rate, where turnover is defined as the percentage of the total workforce that leaves voluntarily (or is fired) each year and must be replaced. Turnover is different from employee attrition, which refers to workers who retire or whose jobs are eliminated because of downsizing.



Employee turnover typically requires a company to interview, hire, and train new workers. During these onboarding processes, companies frequently become less productive because existing workers may need to mentor a new employee and share part of the workload. The company's expenses also often grow during the onboarding process as they bring in outside experts, pay for special courses or training seminars, and pay employees to spend more time at work even though they are being less productive.


  The Age of the Company  

Startup companies that are hiring to fill key positions might still have relatively small revenue. Such firms tend to have lower revenue-per-employee ratios than more established companies that can leverage hiring for those same key positions over a larger revenue base.



If a growing company needs to take on more help, management would ideally be able to grow its revenue at a faster rate than its labor costs, which often is reflected in steadily rising revenue-per-employee ratios. Ultimately, increased efficiency in managing its revenue per employee should lead to a company's expanding margins and improved profitability.


   Special Considerations  

Investors interested in calculating a company's revenue per employee can find the required revenue and employee numbers in the company's financial statements and annual reports. The ratio itself is easy to calculate and comparing revenue per employee between different companies is a fairly straightforward process. In general, companies with higher revenue-per-employee numbers operate streamlined and efficient organizations, have lower overhead costs, and are more productive than their competitors.



There are several other ratios an investor should also consider when analyzing a company as a potential investment. Investors should review a company's profitability ratios, such as profit margin, return on assets (ROA), and return on equity (ROE).
What Is Average Revenue Per Unit (ARPU)?  

Average revenue per unit (ARPU) is an indicator of the profitability of a product based on the amount of money that is generated from each of its users or subscribers. It is a particularly useful measurement for companies in the telecommunications and media industries, which rely on subscribers or users.



ARPU is usually calculated as total revenue divided by the number of units, users, or subscribers.



It is often referred to as average revenue per user. Mobile phone service providers may even refer to it as average revenue per SIM card.





Key Takeaways

Average revenue per unit (ARPU) measures the earnings generated per user or unit.This figure is most often reported by telecom companies and media companies.Analysts and investors find it useful to compare ARPU numbers from rivals in the same industry. It indicates which is doing the best job of maximizing revenue from its subscribers or users.Management delves into the ARPU number to see which products or business segments are performing best and worst.Churn rate and subscriber growth rate are other metrics that are tracked closely in the telecom and media sectors.


   Understanding Average Revenue Per Unit (ARPU)  

ARPU is not a GAAP measure. That is, a company is not compelled to produce or track ARPU in order to comply with generally accepted accounting principles.



However, ARPU is useful information to company executives and investors who want to understand and track a company's revenue generation capability and growth at the per-unit level. The number is published by many companies for that reason.



It is particularly relevant to telecom and media companies because their businesses are based on subscribers or active users, not on buyers of physical products.


   How to Calculate ARPU  

In order to accurately calculate ARPU, one must first define a standard time period. Most telephone and communications carriers, for example, calculate ARPU on a month-to-month basis.



The total revenue generated during the standard time period is then divided by the number of units or users.



The end date for the period is not used for the denominator since it could fail to capture fluctuations throughout the period. Instead, the start date and the end date of the period are typically averaged.



Notably, the number of users also fluctuates throughout any given time period, especially in industries such as media and telecommunications. Therefore, the number of units for a given period must be estimated in order to reach the most accurate ARPU figure possible.






The world's top three social media sites in terms of ARPU are, in order, TikTok, Facebook, and LinkedIn.


   Who Uses Average Revenue Per Unit (ARPU)?  

ARPU is used in the telecommunications sector by Verizon, AT&T, and others to track the average amount of revenue that is generated per mobile phone subscriber.



In the mobile phone industry, the revenue included in ARPU includes not only the monthly billings to subscribers but the revenue generated by incoming calls which are payable under the regulatory interconnection system.


  ARPU In Subscription Services  

Cable companies such as Comcast Corp. also disclose ARPU figures.



The values of the measures obtained can be used internally and externally as a comparison among subscriber-based companies and to assist in the forecasting of future service revenues produced from a customer base.


  ARPU In Social Media  

Social media companies like Meta Platforms Inc. (formerly Facebook) and Snap report ARPU numbers to investors. The difference in these measures between the two companies goes some way towards explaining the large gap in the valuations of the two companies. For example:



Snap's ARPU for the fourth quarter of 2021 was $4.06, compared to its $3.44 in Q4 2020. The company's market capitalization is currently $57.5 billion.Meta's average revenue per user for 2021 was $40.96. Its market capitalization is currently $603.78 billion.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of ARPU  

For the companies that publish it, a high ARPU is obviously a bragging point, to the extent that it is sometimes dismissed as a "vanity metric."



A post on Profitwell, a publication for software-as-a-service businesses, argues that those who think so aren't using it correctly. ARPU can be analyzed for insights into customers' responses to the company's various price points and premium offerings.



It also can quite plainly indicate the company's trajectory towards (or away from) growth.



However, it may not be quite as useful to analysts and investors outside the company. They may have the ARPU number but lack the details. It is in that case a macro-level measure.



For instance, in the Meta example above, there may be tens or hundreds of millions of people who have signed up as users but seldom or never interact on the Facebook platform or see the advertising that is being displayed for them there.



The true ARPU figure thus could be distorted, and that distortion could be substantial.



Even as a macro-level measure, ARPU can be useful to analysts and investors,



As the Corporate Finance Institute points out. It can be used as a point of comparison among companies in a sector. It can be used to forecast a company's growth potential. It also can yield insights into the relative success of the company's market segments.





Pros

For investors, ARPU is an easy point of comparison among competitors.
For companies, a starting point for analysis of business strengths and weaknesses.
Bragging rights (but only if the number is impressively high).



Cons

It's a macro level measure, ARPU can be presented without the detail that makes it meaningful.
User growth and user churn may be more useful for indicating a company's direction.
The number can be distorted.





   Special Considerations  

ARPU is one of several metrics used to evaluate the financials of a telecommunications company. Other key figures include:



Churn rate. This indicates the number of subscribers who are dropping the company's service and presumably switching to a competitor. A high churn rate indicates that the company has a lot of dissatisfied customers. Either its customer base is shrinking or it is being forced to spend a great deal of money acquiring new customers to replace the departing ones.Subscriber growth. Also called "net additions" in company financial statements, this is a strong indicator of the company's level of continuing success.



These can be equally important in evaluating media companies. But the media landscape is extremely complex and segmented, with competitors in social media, news media, entertainment, business, and more. Each of these has its own metrics for success.




What Is Included in an ARPU Calculation?
At its core, ARPU is simply total revenue divided by the total number of users. The question is what to include in revenue. The number typically will include:First-time buyers or subscribers who pay an upfront feeRecurring revenue such as monthly paymentsUpsells, through purchases of premium productsCross-sells, or purchases of products from others in revenue-sharing dealsThis works for some companies such as Comcast, which makes its money through basic subscriptions, premium subscriptions, and streaming purchases.Many media companies, however, have very different revenue streams. The bulk of their revenue is derived from advertising. They may have insignificant or no basic subscription fees, though they may make money from premium levels of service or revenue-sharing deals. All of these would be included in their ARPU figures.




How Can a Company Increase ARPU?
Many companies, notably including the telecoms, try to increase their ARPU by selling their existing customers higher tiers or bundles of services.Others, such as media companies, focus on increasing advertising revenue.Both telecoms and media companies analyze their internal numbers to identify the demographic groups that are of greatest value to them. If Gen X consumers or families with children appear to be their most valuable customers, in terms of their contribution to ARPU, that's the group that the company will target for growth.




What Is Prepaid and Postpaid ARPU?
Prepaid and postpaid ARPU is peculiar to the telecom service companies. They offer their customers a variety of options, which break down to either prepaid or postpaid versions.Prepaid service requires the user to pay a flat fee monthly, in advance of using it. This is the "pay-as-you-go" option that can be canceled at any time.Postpaid service is billed monthly. This is the type of plan that may come with a "free" or discounted phone and a contractual obligation to continue the service for a set number of months.It appears that the trend favors the prepaid option. At T-Mobile, for example, prepaid ARPU rose steadily between 2013 and mid-2021, from 28.25% to 37.53%. During the same period, postpaid ARPU declined from 54.5% to 47.61%.


   The Bottom Line  

If you're considering investing in a telecom or a media company, you may find ARPU a good number to watch over time. It's also a useful point of comparison among competitors in the same space.



Which company is doing the best job monetizing its customer base? It's a good bet that it's the company with the highest ARPU.
What Is Revenue Recognition?  

Revenue recognition is a generally accepted accounting principle (GAAP) that identifies the specific conditions in which revenue is recognized and determines how to account for it. Revenue is typically recognized when a critical event has occurred, when a product or service has been delivered to a customer, and the dollar amount is easily measurable to the company.





Key Takeaways

Revenue recognition is a generally accepted accounting principle (GAAP) that stipulates how and when revenue is to be recognized.The revenue recognition principle using accrual accounting requires that revenues are recognized when realized and earned–not when cash is received.The revenue recognition standard, ASC 606, provides a uniform framework for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Revenue Recognition  

Revenue is at the heart of all business performance. Regulators know how tempting it is for companies to push the limits on what qualifies as revenue, especially when not all revenue is collected when the work is complete. For example, attorneys charge their clients in billable hours and present the invoice after work is completed. Construction managers often bill clients on a percentage-of-completion method.



The revenue recognition principle, a feature of accrual accounting, requires that revenues are recognized on the income statement in the period when realized and earned—not necessarily when cash is received. 



Realized revenue means that goods or services have been received by the customer, but payment for the good or service is expected later.Earned revenue accounts for goods or services that have been provided or performed, respectively.



The revenue-generating activity must be fully or essentially complete for it to be included in revenue during the respective accounting period. Also, there must be a reasonable level of certainty that earned revenue payment will be received. Lastly, according to the matching principle, the revenue and its associated costs must be reported in the same accounting period.






The revenue recognition principle of ASC 606 requires that revenue is recognized when the delivery of promised goods or services matches the amount expected by the company in exchange for the goods or services.


   Accounting for Revenue  

Revenue accounting is fairly straightforward when a product is sold and the revenue is recognized when the customer pays for the product. However, accounting for revenue can get complicated when a company takes a long time to produce a product. As a result, there are several situations in which there can be exceptions to the revenue recognition principle.



Analysts, therefore, prefer that the revenue recognition policies for one company are also standard for the entire industry. Having a standard revenue recognition guideline helps to ensure that an apples-to-apples comparison can be made between companies when reviewing line items on the income statement. Revenue recognition principles within a company should remain constant over time as well, so historical financials can be analyzed and reviewed for seasonal trends or inconsistencies.


   Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606  

On May 28, 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) jointly issued Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606. This highlights how revenue from contracts with customers is treated, providing a uniform framework for recognizing revenue from this source.



The old guidance was industry-specific, which created a system of fragmented policies. The updated revenue recognition standard is industry-neutral and, therefore, more transparent. It allows for improved comparability of financial statements with standardized revenue recognition practices across multiple industries.



There are five steps needed to satisfy the updated revenue recognition principle:



Identify the contract with the customer. This involves agreeing on the terms of the contract, including payment, the delivery of goods and services, and consequences if any obligations aren't met. Contracts may come in written form or may begin as verbal agreements.Identify contractual performance obligations. In this case, it's important to outline the specific goods or services behind the agreement.Determine the amount of consideration/price for the transaction. This isn't just about the price of goods and services but also includes other factors, such as discounts, return policies, and additional fees.Allocate the determined amount of consideration/price to the contractual obligations. This step involves any specific selling price to every single obligation. Recognize revenue when the performing party satisfies the performance obligation. This should only be done once the transaction is complete and your obligation is fulfilled. Revenue can only be recognized once this is done.


   IFRS Reporting Criteria  

There are certain conditions that businesses must meet as per IFRS requirements. According to the IFRS, these requirements fall into three different categories that are needed for contracts to exist. The table below highlights each one:










Performance 
Collectability 
Measurability 


1. Transferring the risk and reward from the seller to the buyer
3. A reasonable assurance about the collection of payment. 
 4. Easy measurement of the amount of revenue.


2. Loss of control over the goods sold by the seller.
 
5. Easy measurement of the cost of revenue.






Performance indicates the seller has fulfilled a majority of their expectations in order to get payment. Collectability refers to the seller's expectation to be paid. Measurability, on the other hand, relates to the matching principle wherein the seller can match the expenses with the money earned from the transaction.


   GAAP Revenue Recognition Principles  

Generally accepted accounting principles require that revenues are recognized according to the revenue recognition principle, which is a feature of accrual accounting. This means that revenue is recognized on the income statement in the period when realized and earned—not necessarily when cash is received.



The revenue-generating activity must be fully or essentially complete for it to be included in revenue during the respective accounting period. Also, there must be a reasonable level of certainty that earned revenue payment will be received. Lastly, according to the matching principle, the revenue and its associated costs must be reported in the same accounting period.




Do All Businesses Need to Follow Revenue Recognition Principles?
Revenue recognition is generally required of all public companies in the U.S. according to generally accepted accounting principles. The requirements for tend to vary based on jurisdiction for other companies. In many cases, it is not necessary for small businesses as they are not bound by GAAP accounting unless they intend to go public.




Why Is Revenue Recognition Important?
Public companies are required to report their financial statements based on GAAP accounting. Revenue recognition is one of the principles associated with GAAP reporting. This principle means that revenue must be recognized at the moment it is earned. This is an important consideration for two reasons. Not only does it prevent companies from cooking their books but it also provides an accurate picture of the financial health of a corporation.




What Is Needed to Satisfy the Revenue Recognition Principle?
The five steps needed to satisfy the updated revenue recognition principle are: (1) identify the contract with the customer; (2) identify contractual performance obligations; (3) determine the amount of consideration/price for the transaction; (4) allocate the determined amount of consideration/price to the contractual obligations; and (5) recognize revenue when the performing party satisfies the performance obligation.


   The Bottom Line  

Revenue is a key metric for any business. Certain businesses must abide by regulations when it comes to the way they account for and report their revenue streams. Public companies in the U.S. must abide by generally accepted accounting principles, which sets out principles for revenue recognition. This prevents anyone from falsifying records and paints a more accurate portrait of a company's financial situation.
What Is a Reversal?  

A reversal is a change in the price direction of an asset. A reversal can occur to the upside or downside. Following an uptrend, a reversal would be to the downside. Following a downtrend, a reversal would be to the upside. Reversals are based on overall price direction and are not typically based on one or two periods/bars on a chart.



Certain indicators, such a moving average, oscillator, or channel, may help in isolating trends as well as spotting reversals. Reversals may be compared with breakouts.





Key Takeaways

A reversal is when the direction of a price trend has changed, from going up to going down, or vice-versa.Traders try to get out of positions that are aligned with the trend prior to a reversal, or they will get out once they see the reversal underway.Reversals typically refer to large price changes, where the trend changes direction. Small counter-moves against the trend are called pullbacks or consolidations.When it starts to occur, a reversal isn't distinguishable from a pullback. A reversal keeps going and forms a new trend, while a pullback ends and then the price starts moving back in the trending direction.






   What Does a Reversal Tell You?  

Reversals often occur in intraday trading and happen rather quickly, but they also occur over days, weeks, and years. Reversals occur in different time frames which are relevant to different traders. An intraday reversal on a five-minute chart doesn't matter to a long-term investor who is watching for a reversal on daily or weekly charts. Yet, the five-minute reversal is very important to a day trader.



An uptrend, which is a series of higher swing highs and higher lows, reverses into a downtrend by changing to a series of lower highs and lower lows. A downtrend, which is a series of lower highs and lower lows, reverses into an uptrend by changing to a series of higher highs and higher lows.



Trends and reversals can be identified based on price action alone, as described above, or other traders prefer the use of indicators. Moving averages may aid in spotting both the trend and reversals. If the price is above a rising moving average then the trend is up, but when the price drops below the moving average that could signal a potential price reversal.



Trendlines are also used to spot reversals. Since an uptrend makes higher lows, a trendline can be drawn along those higher lows. When the price drops below the trendline, that could indicate a trend reversal.



If reversals were easy to spot, and to differentiate from noise or brief pullbacks, trading would be easy. But it isn't. Whether using price action or indicators, many false signals occur and sometimes reversals happen so quickly that traders aren't able to act quickly enough to avoid a large loss.


   Example of How to Use a Reversal  










Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The chart shows an uptrend moving with a channel, making overall higher highs and higher lows. The price first breaks out of the channel and below the trendline, signaling a possible trend change. The price then also makes a lower low, dropping below the prior low within the channel. This further confirms the reversal to the downside.



The price then continues lower, making lower lows and lower highs. A reversal to the upside won't occur until the price makes a higher high and higher low. A move above the descending trendline, though, could issue an early warning sign of a reversal.



Referring to the rising channel, the example also highlights the subjectivity of trend analysis and reversals. Several times within the channel the price makes a lower low relative to a prior swing, and yet the overall trajectory remained up.


   Difference Between a Reversal and a Pullback  

A reversal is a trend change in the price of an asset. A pullback is a counter-move within a trend that doesn't reverse the trend. An uptrend is created by higher swing highs and higher swing lows. Pullbacks create the higher lows. Therefore, a reversal of the uptrend doesn't occur until the price makes a lower low on the time frame the trader is watching. Reversals always start as potential pullbacks. Which one it will ultimately turn out to be is unknown when it starts.


   Limitations In Using Reversals  

Reversals are a fact of life in the financial markets. Prices always reverse at some point and will have multiple upside and downside reversals over time. Ignoring reversals may result in taking more risk than anticipated. For example, a trader believes that a stock which has moved from $4 to $5 is well positioned to become much more valuable. They rode the trend higher, but now the stock is dropping to $4, $3, then $2. Reversal signs were likely evident well before the stock reached $2. Likely they were visible at before the price reached $4. Therefore, by watching for reversals the trader could have locked in profit or kept themselves out of a now losing position.



When a reversal starts, it isn't clear whether it is a reversal or a pullback. Once it is evident it is a reversal, the price may have already moved a significant distance, resulting in a sizable loss or profit erosion for the trader. For this reason, trend traders often exit while the price is still moving in their direction. That way they don't need to worry about whether the counter-trend move is a pullback or reversal.



False signals are also a reality. A reversal may occur using an indicator or price action, but then the price immediately resumes to move in the prior trending direction again.
What Is a Reverse Auction?  

A reverse auction is a type of auction in which sellers bid for the prices at which they are willing to sell their goods and services. It is the opposite of a regular auction, where a seller puts up an item and buyers place bids until the close of the auction, at which time the item goes to the highest bidder.





Key Takeaways

In a reverse auction, a buyer puts out a request for a specific good or service, inviting businesses to compete on price against each other to deliver what is being requested.In the end, the contract goes to the seller willing to accept the lowest amount.A reverse auction is the opposite of a regular auction, where the auction is initiated by the seller and the buyers bid the price up.Reverse auctions are used by large corporations and government entities as a competitive procurement method for raw materials, supplies, and services like accounting and customer service.Reverse auctions can help save time and money, albeit sometimes at the cost of quality.


   Understanding a Reverse Auction  

In a reverse auction, the buyer puts up a request for a required good or service. Sellers then place bids for the amount they are willing to be paid for the good or service, with the winner being the seller prepared to accept the lowest amount.



Reverse auctions gained popularity with the emergence of internet-based online auction tools that enabled multiple sellers to connect with a buyer on a real-time basis. Today, reverse auctions are used by large corporations and government entities as a competitive procurement method for raw materials, supplies, and services like accounting and customer service.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Example of a Reverse Auction  

Bidding for government contracts is an example of reverse auctions. In this type of auction, governments specify requirements for the project, and bidders, which are approved contractors, come up with a cost structure to finish the project.



For instance, when the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) has a need for a certain service or good—such as, say, 50 fighter jets—it posts a message reaching out to potential suppliers. In this message, the DoD outlines what it needs and by when and invites interested contractors to submit price proposals within a set time frame. The winner is generally the party willing to do the job specified for less.






Reverse auctions are a way for companies and governments to invite competition and push down the price for a good or service that they need.


   Caveats of a Reverse Auction  

It is important to note that the reverse auction does not work for every good or service. Goods and services that can be provided by only a few sellers are not necessarily ideal for reverse auctions. In other words, a reverse auction works only when there are many sellers that offer similar goods and services to ensure the integrity of a competitive process. 



In addition, there could be a tendency to focus on the lowest bids by sellers with less regard for the quality of the goods or services. The adage “cheap for a reason” has the potential to apply in such instances where a buyer suffers from the suboptimal quality of the lowest-priced set of goods or services purchased through a reverse auction.



Last but not least, a buyer must be thorough in communicating all of the specifications to the auction participants. A failure to do so could leave the purchaser with a winning bid that does not capture all of the sought-after attributes.




How does a reverse auction work?
In a reverse auction, a buyer puts out a request for a specific good or service, inviting businesses to compete against each other with bids for the amount they are willing to accept to deliver what is being requested by the specified time line. In the end, the contract goes to the seller prepared to accept the lowest amount.




What are the benefits of a reverse auction?
Reverse auctions help buyers to lower purchase costs through increased competition and avoid having to individually negotiate with several different suppliers.




When should you hold a reverse auction?
Reverse auctions generally work best when there are many sellers in the market and price is a key factor.




What is the difference between a forward auction and a reverse auction?
Forward auctions are the opposite of a reverse auction. In a forward auction, the auction is initiated by the seller and the buyers bid the price up.


   The Bottom Line  

Reverse auctions can make a lot of sense when there are many sellers in the market and price is the most important factor. They save time and money, which is no small thing for a business, although sometimes this can come at the cost of sacrificing quality.



Detailed contract specifications should rule out suboptimal quality goods and services winning bids. However, depending on the good or service in question, sometimes it is better and generally more efficient over the long run to pay a little more for greater quality.



The old adages “you get what you pay for” and “cheap for a reason” apply here. For some goods and services, this may not be an issue. For others, it is a game changer.
What Is Reverse Culture Shock?  

Reverse culture shock is the emotional and psychological distress suffered by some people when they return home after a number of years overseas. This can result in unexpected difficulty in readjusting to the culture and values of the home country, now that the previously familiar has become unfamiliar.



In a business context, the advent of globalization has resulted in more and more employees being sent on lengthy assignments to other countries. With the number of expatriates who live and work in countries other than their own having increased in recent years, reverse culture shock is a phenomenon that is on the rise.





Key Takeaways

Reverse culture shock is the emotional and psychological distress suffered by people when they return home after a number of years overseas.In a business context, globalization has resulted in more and more employees being sent on lengthy assignments to other countries.The longer the time spent abroad and the bigger the cultural difference, the greater the reverse culture shock. If there is little regular dialogue with relations from the home country, it may be easier to detach from the customs and demeanor of the home nation in favor of the new culture.


   Understanding Reverse Culture Shock  

The degree of reverse culture shock may be directly proportional to the length of time spent overseas—the longer the time spent abroad, the greater the shock factor upon the eventual return home. Another factor that may influence the magnitude of reverse culture shock is the extent of the difference in cultures between the expatriate's home country and the foreign country.






If personal contacts back home express disinterest in hearing about the new experiences of the individual who is overseas, it may widen the divide between them, which can lead to reverse culture shock.


   How Reverse Culture Shock May Occur  

As an individual spends time overseas and gets more acclimated with their surroundings, they may grow more accustomed to the local norms than what they experienced at home. For instance, it is a local custom to remove one’s shoes before entering a residence in numerous cultures.



Adapting to such a custom may create a habit that is hard to break upon a return home. There may be a change in the pace of work and leisure that is initially disruptive to the lifestyle, then later becomes part of their new routine. This interchange in lifestyles may cause the traveler to put their native behavior and customs under scrutiny.



On a psychological and interpersonal level, the degree of reverse culture shock may be increased or lessened by the amount of communication that is maintained with family, friends, or coworkers in their home country. If there is little regular dialogue between the parties, it may be easier to detach from the customs and demeanor of the home nation in favor of the new culture.



Episodes of reverse culture shock typically are less severe for individuals who have traveled overseas and returned home more frequently and developed a perspective on interacting with other cultures.
What Is a Reverse ICO?  

A reverse initial coin offering (ICO) is a method used by existing, established real-world businesses to issue a token to decentralize the business ecosystem, raise funds, and get into cryptocurrency. These enterprises have existing products and services and they cater to real-world customers.



Essentially, a reverse ICO acts like an initial public offering (IPO) allowing an existing enterprise to launch cryptocurrency tokens and seek funds through crowdsourcing. In the last several years, this similarity has prompted the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to argue that token issues through ICOs may be securities and not currencies.





Key Takeaways

Reverse ICOs are token sales issued by companies that are already going concerns, in contrast to traditional ICOs that raise funds for a startup for the first time.During the height of the crypto bubble in 2017, reverse ICOs seemed like a way to raise capital without government oversight.The U.S. SEC restricts the definition of what can be an unregulated ICO and what is an IPO by another name.


   Understanding Reverse ICOs  

The process for a reverse ICO works exactly the same way as for a standard ICO. Often, a company launches an ICO when it is looking to secure funding. The company generates crowdsourced funding by selling tokens to investors in a way that is similar to an IPO. The major difference between an ICO and a reverse ICO is that, in the latter case, the company issuing the token is already well-established in another business area and offers a crypto token for sale to raise cash and to enter into the decentralized realm of the digital currency world.



Companies can launch reverse ICOs for a variety of reasons. Pre-existing companies can sell tokens to interested investors as a way to decentralize business, to launch a new business line in the blockchain industry, or simply to raise funds. Because some IPOs are available only to accredited investors, they have a smaller pool of potential funders as compared with a reverse ICO.


   Potential Issues With Reverse ICOs  

While there are numerous potential benefits to be had for a business launching a reverse ICO, there are also potential issues, some of them significant.



The use of reverse ICO tokens as money is somewhat dubious, as businesses conducting reverse ICOs were able to grow and thrive using conventional fiat currency. The possibility that every business would ask you to convert your fiat money into their proprietary token—as if you were required to load up your Starbucks gift card before you were permitted to buy a cup of coffee—is not practical to put it generously.



Another problem with reverse ICOs is how to understand their tokens. Are they a medium of exchange, or are they securities? This was the problem the Kik messaging app had when it launched a reverse ICO in 2017 that raised $100 million. The SEC sued Kik over the process, alleging that the company sold tokens to U.S. investors without properly registering the offer and sale.



The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission brought a suit against Kik claiming that it misled investors because their reverse ICO was actually just another form of security like a stock. But unlike a stock, there is no return on investment in Kik's coin Kin. In 2020, a federal district court entered a final judgment on the SEC's lawsuit against Kik. Among other penalties, Kik was required to pay a $5 million penalty.






The SEC filed a suit against Kik Interactive over the latter's reverse ICO of the Kin token. The suit alleged that Kik sold tokens without properly registering the sale of securities. This suit may have deterred other companies from launching reverse ICOs.


   Reverse ICOs: A Fad During the Crypto Bubble  

During the height of the crypto bubble in 2017 and 2018, companies that said they were adding blockchain to their businesses increased in value. A notorious example from early 2018 is the Long Island Iced Tea Corp. that changed its name to Long Island Blockchain and saw a huge spike in the value of its shares that were listed on the Nasdaq, despite the fact that the company had no apparent business in blockchain. It has since been de-listed and some of its top shareholders have been charged with insider trading.



Because existing businesses face regulatory hurdles if they want to raise capital by selling stock and banks often have stringent requirements that businesses prove their good credit and viability, the reverse ICO seemed like an easy, unregulated way to raise money with few strings and no oversight. The temptation to do so was even stronger when parody coins like PonziCoin that openly warned investors that the ICO was a scam still made an estimated $250,000.



The SEC went so far as to create a fake ICO page selling a made-up shitcoin called Howeycoin—a play on the Howey test the SEC uses to determine what constitutes a security—to teach unwary investors to read the fine print before they invest. The agency's suit against Kik may be one reason why the reverse ICO market has dried up since the bursting of the crypto bubble.


  The Future of Reverse ICOs  

The possibility of a reverse ICO isn't totally dead, however; though Meta's (formerly Facebook) reverse ICO proposal for its Libra token ran into resistance from states and central banks when it was announced in 2019; and as of 2022, it appears that the Libra project appears to have been postponed indefinitely.



Other organizations may also find value in creating a blockchain-based token system that doesn't appear to be an illegal or legally gray attempt to dodge securities regulation, but the appeal of reverse ICOs as they existed in 2017 has largely worn off.




What is a reverse ICO?
A reverse ICO refers to the launch and sale of a cryptocurrency token by a pre-existing company. Reverse ICOs can be used to generate funds for the company, to facilitate decentralizing through the use of a new crypto token, or to expand into the blockchain and cryptocurrency industries.




How does a reverse ICO differ from a regular ICO?
A reverse ICO and an ICO are essentially quite similar. Both involve the launch and sale of a new cryptocurrency token. The company launching the token is what distinguishes these two events: a company launching an ICO is typically just starting out, while one putting on a reverse ICO is usually well-established and looking for additional funds or a new business line.




What are some issues with reverse ICOs?
Reverse ICOs can be fraught with potential legal troubles. The SEC has said that reverse ICOs may constitute the sale of securities and that proper registration is required. During the height of the cryptocurrency craze, some companies used reverse ICOs or investor interest in blockchain more broadly to generate quick funding without necessarily providing an apparent business service relating to the crypto industry. For these reasons, among others, reverse ICOs have become significantly less popular in recent years.
What Is a Reverse Morris Trust (RMT)?  

A reverse Morris trust (RMT) is a tax-optimization strategy in which a company wishing to spin-off and subsequently sell assets to an interested party can do so without paying taxes on any gains made from the disposal.



A RMT is a form of organization that allows an entity to combine a subsidiary that was spun off with another company free of taxes, provided that all legal requirements for a spinoff are met. To form a RMT, a parent company must first spin-off a subsidiary or other unwanted asset into a separate company, which is then merged or combined with a firm that is interested in acquiring the asset.





Key Takeaways

A reverse Morris trust (RMT) allows a company to spin off and sell assets while avoiding taxes.The RMT starts with a parent company looking to sell assets to a third-party company.After a RMT is formed, stockholders of the original company own at least 50.1% of the value and voting rights of the combined or merged firm.


   How a Reverse Morris Trust (RMT) Works  

RMTs originated as a result of a 1966 ruling in a lawsuit against the Internal Revenue Service, which created a tax loophole to avoid taxes when selling unwanted assets.



The RMT starts with a parent company looking to sell assets to a third-party company. The parent company then creates a subsidiary, and that subsidiary and the third-party company merge to create an unrelated company. The unrelated company then issues shares to the original parent company's shareholders. If those shareholders control at least 50.1% of the voting right and economic value in the unrelated company, the RMT is complete. The parent company has effectively transferred the assets, tax-free, to the third-party company.



The key feature to preserve the tax-free status of a RMT is that after its formation stockholders of the original parent company own at least 50.1% of the value and voting rights of the combined or merged firm. This makes the RMT only attractive for third-party companies that are about the same size or smaller than the spun-off subsidiary.



It's also worth mentioning that the third-party company in a RMT has more flexibility in acquiring control of its board of directors and appointing senior management, despite holding a non-controlling stake in the trust.






The difference between a Morris trust and a reverse Morris trust is that in a Morris trust the parent company merges with the target company and no subsidiary is created.


   Examples of a Reverse Morris Trust (RMT)  

A telecom company that wishes to sell old landlines to smaller companies in rural areas could use this technique. The telecom company might not wish to spend the time or resources to upgrade those lines to broadband or fiber-optic lines, so it could sell those assets using this tax-efficient transfer.



In 2007, Verizon Communications announced a planned sale of its landline operations in certain lines in the Northeast region to FairPoint Communications. To meet the tax-free transaction qualification, Verizon transferred unwanted landline operation assets to a separate subsidiary and distributed its shares to its existing shareholders.



Verizon then completed a RMT reorganization with FairPoint that gave the original Verizon shareholders a majority stake in the newly merged company and FairPoint's original management the green light to run the newly formed business.



In another example, Lockheed Martin divested from its Information Systems & Global Solutions (ISGS) business segment in 2016. Like Verizon, it underwent a RMT by forming a new offshoot company that then merged with Leidos Holdings, a defense and information technology company. 



Leidos Holdings paid a $1.8 billion cash payment, while Lockheed Martin reduced approximately 3% of its outstanding common shares. Lockheed Martin stockholders involved in the transaction then owned a 50.5% stake in Leidos. Overall, the transaction was valued at an estimated $4.6 billion.




How Does a Reverse Morris Trust Work?
A reverse Morris trust is a strategic way to divest a division tax-free, provided that all legal requirements are met. To undergo a reverse Morris trust, a company will create a new company for this division, then merge it with another company. Importantly, shareholders of the parent company must own over 50% of the newly created company.




Why Do Companies Choose a Reverse Morris Trust?
When a company is looking to focus on its core operations and sell assets in a tax-efficient manner, it may choose a reverse Morris trust. This allows the parent company to raise money and help reduce its debt while selling unwanted business assets. This type of transaction can be useful to companies that are highly indebted.




Are Reverse Morris Trusts Commonly Used?
Only a few reverse Morris trusts take place each year. In contrast, dozens of conventional spin-offs are announced. Part of the reason behind this is that certain requirements follow for reverse Morris trusts: only certain companies can apply, and they must have generated positive income in the five years prior to the transaction, among other things.
What Is a Reverse Repurchase Agreement (RRP)?  

A reverse repurchase agreement (RRP), or reverse repo, is the sale of securities with the agreement to repurchase them at a higher price at a specific future date. A reverse repo refers to the seller side of a repurchase agreement (RP), or repo.



These transactions, which often occur between two banks, are essentially collateralized loans. The difference between the original purchase price and the buyback price, along with the timing of the transaction (often overnight), equates to interest paid by the seller to the buyer. The reverse repo is the final step in the repurchase agreement, closing the contract.





Key Takeaways


A reverse repurchase agreement is a short-term agreement to sell securities in order to buy them back at a slightly higher price.
Repurchase agreements (RPs, or repos) and reverse repos are used for short-term lending and borrowing, often overnight, for banks looking to fulfill their reserve requirements.
Central banks use repos and reverse repos to add and remove from the money supply via open market operations.



   How Reverse Repurchase Agreements (RRPs) Work  

Repos are classified as a money market instrument, and they are usually used to raise short-term capital. Reverse repurchase agreements (RRPs, or reverse repos) are the seller end of a repurchase agreement. These financial instruments are also called collateralized loans, buy/sell back loans, and sell/buy back loans.



Reverse repos are commonly used by businesses like lending institutions or investors to access short-term capital when facing cash flow issues. In essence, the borrower sells a business asset, equipment, or even shares in its company. Then, at a set future time, the lender sells the asset back for a higher price.



The higher price represents the interest to the buyer for loaning money to the seller during the duration of the deal. The asset acquired by the buyer acts as collateral against any default risk that it faces from the seller. Short-term RRPs hold smaller collateral risks than long-term RRPs because, over the long term, assets held as collateral can often depreciate in value, causing collateral risk for the buyer.



In a macro example of RRPs, the Federal Reserve Bank uses repos and RRPs to provide stability in lending markets through open market operations (OMOs). The RRP transaction is used less often than a repo by the Fed, as a repo puts money into the banking system when it is short, whereas an RRP borrows money from the system when there is too much liquidity. The Fed conducts RRPs to maintain long-term monetary policy and control capital liquidity levels in the market.






Part of the business of repos and RRPs is growing, with third-party collateral management operators providing services to develop RRPs to provide quick funding to businesses in need. As quality collateral is sometimes difficult to find, businesses are taking advantage of their assets as a quality way to fund expansion and equipment acquisition through the use of tri-party RRPs, resulting in repo agreement opportunities for investors. This industry is known as collateral management optimization and efficiency.






   Reverse Repurchase Agreements vs. Buy or Sell Backs  

An RRP differs from buy or sell backs in a simple way. Buy or sell back agreements legally document each transaction separately, providing clear separation in each transaction. In this way, each transaction can legally stand on its own without the enforcement of the other. RRPs, on the other hand, have each phase of the agreement legally documented within the same contract and ensure the availability and right to each phase of the agreement.



Lastly, in an RRP, although collateral is in essence purchased, the collateral generally never changes physical location or actual ownership. If the seller defaults against the buyer, then the collateral would need to be physically transferred.






Repos and reverse repos are two sides of the same coin, reflecting the role of each party in the transaction. Repo refers to the buyer side of a repurchase agreement, while reverse repo refers to the seller side.


   Example of Reverse Repurchase Agreements  

Let’s say Bank ABC currently has excess cash reserves, and it is looking to put some of that money to work. Meanwhile, Bank XYZ is facing a reserve shortfall and needs a temporary cash boost. Bank XYZ may enter a reverse repo agreement with Bank ABC, agreeing to sell securities for the other bank to hold overnight before buying them back at a slightly higher price. From the perspective of Bank ABC, which buys the securities and agrees to sell them back at a premium the next day, the transaction is a repurchase agreement.




How Does a Reverse Repurchase Agreement Work?
In a reverse repurchase agreement (RRP, or reverse repo), a party sells securities to a counterparty with the stipulation that it will buy them back at a slightly higher price. The agreement functions much like a collateralized loan. The original seller (engaging in a reverse repurchase agreement) receives an infusion of cash, while the original buyer (engaging in a repurchase [repo] agreement) essentially provides a loan and earns interest from the higher resale price. In general, the assets that serve as collateral for the transaction do not physically change hands.




What Is the Benefit of a Reverse Repo?
In a reverse repo, a party in need of cash reserves temporarily sells a business asset, equipment, or even shares in another company, with the stipulation that it will buy the assets back at a premium. Like other types of lenders, the buyer of the assets in a repo agreement earns money for providing a cash boost to the seller, and the underlying collateral reduces the risk of the transaction.




How Does the Federal Reserve Use Reverse Repos?
When the Federal Reserve uses a reverse repo, the central bank initially sells securities and agrees to buy them back later. In these cases, the Fed is essentially borrowing money from the market, which it may do when there is too much liquidity in the system. Regular repurchase agreements (repos), in which the Fed plays the role of the lender by buying securities and then selling them back, are more common measures that the central bank uses to inject additional reserve balances into the banking system.


   The Bottom Line  

A reverse repurchase agreement (RRP), or reverse repo, refers to the seller side of a repurchase agreement (repo). The party executing the reverse repo sells assets to the other party while agreeing to buy them back later at a slightly higher price. From a practical perspective, a reverse repo agreement is akin to taking out a short-term loan, with the underlying assets serving as collateral.
What Is a Reverse Stock Split?  

A reverse stock split is a type of corporate action that consolidates the number of existing shares of stock into fewer (higher-priced) shares. A reverse stock split divides the existing total quantity of shares by a number such as five or ten, which would then be called a 1-for-5 or 1-for-10 reverse split, respectively. A reverse stock split is also known as a stock consolidation, stock merge, or share rollback and is the opposite of a stock split, where a share is divided (split) into multiple parts.





Key Takeaways

A reverse stock split consolidates the number of existing shares of stock held by shareholders into fewer shares.A reverse stock split does not directly impact a company's value (only its stock price).It can signal a company in distress since it raises the value of otherwise low-priced shares.Remaining relevant and avoiding being delisted are the most common reasons for corporations to pursue this strategy.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   Understanding Reverse Stock Splits  

Depending on market developments and situations, companies can take several actions at the corporate level that may impact their capital structure. One of these is a reverse stock split, whereby existing shares of corporate stock are effectively merged to create a smaller number of proportionally more valuable shares. Since companies don’t create any value by decreasing the number of shares, the price per share increases proportionally.



Per-share price bumping is the primary reason why companies opt for reverse stock splits, and the associated ratios may range from 1-for-2 to as high as 1-for-100. Reverse stock splits do not impact a corporation's value, although they are usually a result of its stock having shed substantial value. The negative connotation associated with such an act is often self-defeating as the stock is subject to renewed selling pressure.






Reverse stock splits are proposed by company management and are subject to consent from the shareholders through their voting rights.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Reverse Stock Splits  

There are several reasons why a company may decide to reduce its number of outstanding shares in the market, some of which are advantageous.


  Advantages  

Prevent major exchange removal: A share price may have tumbled to record low levels, which might make it vulnerable to further market pressure and other untoward developments, such as a failure to fulfill the exchange listing requirements.



An exchange generally specifies a minimum bid price for a stock to be listed. If the stock falls below this bid price and remains lower than that threshold level over a certain period, it risks being delisted from the exchange.



For example, Nasdaq may delist a stock that is consistently trading below $1 per share. Removal from a national-level exchange relegates the company's shares to penny stock status, forcing them to list on the pink sheets. Once placed in these alternative marketplaces for low-value stocks, the shares become harder to buy and sell.



Attract big investors: Companies also maintain higher share prices through reverse stock splits because many institutional investors and mutual funds have policies against taking positions in a stock whose price is below a minimum value. Even if a company remains free of delisting risk by the exchange, its failure to qualify for purchase by such large-sized investors mars its trading liquidity and reputation.



Satisfy regulators: In different jurisdictions across the globe, a company’s regulation depends upon the number of shareholders, among other factors. By reducing the number of shares, companies at times aim to lower the number of shareholders to come under the purview of their preferred regulator or preferred set of laws. Companies that want to go private may also attempt to reduce the number of shareholders through such measures.



Boost spinoff prices: Companies planning to create and float a spinoff, an independent company constructed through the sale or distribution of new shares of an existing business or division of a parent company, might also use reverse splits to gain attractive prices.



For example, if shares of a company planning a spinoff are trading at lower levels, it may be difficult for it to price its spinoff company shares at a higher price. This issue could potentially be remedied by reverse splitting the shares and increasing how much each of their shares trades for.


  Disadvantages  

Generally, a reverse stock split is not perceived positively by market participants. It indicates that the stock price has gone to the bottom and that the company management is attempting to inflate the prices artificially without any real business proposition. Additionally, the liquidity of the stock may also take a toll with the number of shares getting reduced in the open market.


   Example of a Reverse Stock Split  

Say a pharmaceutical company has ten million outstanding shares in the market, which are trading for $5 per share. As the share price is lower, the company management may wish to artificially inflate the per-share price.



They decide to go for the 1-for-5 reverse stock split, which essentially means merging five existing shares into one new share. Once the corporate action exercise is over, the company will have 2 million new shares (10 million / 5), with each share now costing $25 each ($5 x 5).



The proportionate change in share price also supports the fact that the company has not created any real value simply by performing the reverse stock split. Its overall value, represented by market capitalization, before and after the corporate action should remain the same.



The previous market cap is the earlier number of total shares times the earlier price per share, which is $50 million ($5 x 10 million). The market cap following the stock merger is the new number of total shares times the new price per share, which is also $50 million ($25 x 2 million).






The factor by which the company's management decides to go for the reverse stock split becomes the multiple by which the market automatically adjusts the share price.


  Real-World Example  

In 2002, the largest telecommunications company in the U.S., AT&T Inc. (T), performed a 1-for-5 reverse stock split, in conjunction with plans of spinning off its cable TV division and merging it with Comcast Corp. (CMCSA). The corporate action was planned as AT&T feared that the spinoff could lead to a significant decline in its share price and could impact liquidity, business, and its ability to raise capital.



Other regular instances of reverse stock splits include many small, often non-profitable companies involved in research and development (R&D), which do not have any profit-making or marketable product or service. In such cases, companies undergo this corporate action simply to maintain their listing on a premier stock exchange.




Why Would a Company Undergo a Reverse Stock Split?
Reverse splits are usually done when the share price falls too low, putting it at risk for delisting from an exchange for not meeting certain minimum price requirements. Having a higher share price can also attract certain investors who would not consider penny stocks for their portfolios.




What Happens If I Own Shares That Undergo a Reverse Stock Split?
With a reverse split, shareholders of record will see the number of shares they own be reduced, but also see the price of each share increase in a comparable manner. For instance, in a 1:10 reverse stock split, if you owned 1,000 shares that were trading at $5 just before the split, you would then own 100 shares at $50 each. Your broker would handle this automatically, so there is nothing you need to do. A reverse split will not affect your taxes.




Are Reverse Splits Good or Bad?
Many times reverse splits are viewed negatively, as they signal that a company's share price has declined significantly, possibly putting it at risk of being delisted. The higher-priced shares following the split may also be less attractive to certain retail investors who prefer stocks with lower sticker prices.




Why Does the ETN I Own Have So Many Reverse Splits?
Some exchange-traded products like exchange-traded notes (ETNs) naturally decay in value over time and must undergo reverse splits regularly, but these products are not intended to be held for longer than a few hours or days. This is because ETNs are technically debt instruments that hold derivatives on products like commodities or volatility-linked instruments and not the actual underlying assets.
What Is a Reverse Takeover (RTO)?  

A reverse takeover (RTO) is a process whereby private companies can become publicly traded companies without going through an initial public offering (IPO).



To begin, a private company buys enough shares to control a publicly-traded company. The private company's shareholder then exchanges its shares in the private company for shares in the public company. At this point, the private company has effectively become a publicly-traded company.



An RTO is also sometimes referred to as a reverse merger or a reverse IPO.





Key Takeaways

A reverse takeover (RTO) is a process whereby private companies can become publicly traded companies without going through an initial public offering (IPO).While reverse takeovers (RTOs) are cheaper and quicker than an IPO, there can often be weaknesses in an RTO’s management and record-keeping, among other things.Foreign companies may use reverse takeovers (RTOs) to gain access and entry to the U.S. marketplace.


   How a Reverse Takeover (RTO) Works   

By engaging in an RTO, a private company can avoid the expensive fees associated with setting up an IPO. However, the company does not acquire any additional funds through an RTO, and it must have enough funds to complete the transaction on its own.



While not a requirement of an RTO, the name of the publicly-traded company involved is often changed as part of the process. For example, the computer company Dell (DELL) completed a reverse takeover of VMware tracking stock (DVMT) in December 2018 and returned to being a publicly traded company. It also changed its name to Dell Technologies.﻿﻿



Additionally, the corporate restructuring of one—or both—of the merging companies is adjusted to accommodate the new business design. Prior to the RTO, it is not uncommon for the publicly-traded company to have had little to no recent activity, existing as more of a shell corporation. This allows the private company to shift its operations into the shell of the public entity with relative ease, all while avoiding the costs, regulatory requirements, and time constraints associated with an IPO. While a traditional IPO may require months or years to complete, an RTO may be completed in just weeks.






For a company that wants to become publicly traded, reverse takeovers (RTOs) can be a cheaper and quicker option than an IPO. However, they tend to pose greater risks for investors.



Sometimes RTOs are referred to as the "poor man’s IPO." This is because studies have shown that companies that go public through an RTO generally have lower survival rates and performance in the long-run, compared to companies that go through a traditional IPO to become a publicly traded company.


   Special Considerations  

Unlike conventional IPOs—which can be canceled if the equity markets are performing poorly—reverse mergers aren’t generally put on hold. Many private companies looking to complete a reverse merger have often taken a series of losses, and a percentage of the losses can be applied to future income as a tax loss carryforward.﻿﻿



On the flip side, reverse mergers can reveal weaknesses in the private company’s management experience and record keeping. As well, many reverse mergers fail; they end up not fulfilling the promised expectations when they eventually begin trading.



A foreign company may an RTO as a mechanism to gain entry into the U.S. marketplace. For example, if a business with operations based outside of the U.S. purchases enough shares to have a controlling interest in a U.S. company, it can move to merge the foreign-based business with the U.S.-based business.
What Is a Reverse Triangular Merger?  

A reverse triangular merger is the formation of a new company that occurs when an acquiring company creates a subsidiary, the subsidiary purchases the target company, and the subsidiary is then absorbed by the target company.



A reverse triangular merger is more easily accomplished than a direct merger because the subsidiary has only one shareholder—the acquiring company—and the acquiring company may obtain control of the target's nontransferable assets and contracts.





Key Takeaways

A reverse triangular merger is a new company that forms when an acquiring company creates a subsidiary, that subsidiary purchases the target company, and the target company then absorbs the subsidiary.Like other mergers, a reverse triangular merger may be taxable or nontaxable depending on factors listed in Section 368 of the Internal Revenue Code.At least 50% of the payment in a reverse triangular merger is the stock of the acquirer, and the acquirer gains all assets and liabilities of the seller. 



A reverse triangular merger, like direct mergers and forward triangular mergers, may be either taxable or nontaxable, depending on how they are executed and other complex factors set forth in Section 368 of the Internal Revenue Code. If nontaxable, a reverse triangular merger is considered a reorganization for tax purposes.






A reverse triangular merger may qualify as a tax-free reorganization when 80% of the seller’s stock is acquired with the voting stock of the buyer; the non-stock consideration may not exceed 20% of the total.


   Understanding Reverse Triangular Mergers  

In a reverse triangular merger, the acquirer creates a subsidiary that merges into the selling entity and then liquidates, leaving the selling entity as the surviving entity and a subsidiary of the acquirer. The buyer’s stock is then issued to the seller’s shareholders.



Because the reverse triangular merger retains the seller entity and its business contracts, the reverse triangular merger is used more often than the triangular merger.



In a reverse triangular merger, at least 50% of the payment is the stock of the acquirer, and the acquirer gains all assets and liabilities of the seller. Because the acquirer must meet the bona fide needs rule, a fiscal year appropriation may be obligated to be met only if a legitimate need arises in the fiscal year for which the appropriation was made.






A reverse triangular merger is attractive when the seller’s continued existence is needed for reasons other than tax benefits, such as rights relating to franchising, leasing or contracts, or specific licenses that may be held and owned solely by the seller.



Since the acquirer must meet the continuity of business enterprise rule, the entity must continue the target company’s business or use a substantial portion of the target’s business assets in a company.



The acquirer must also meet the continuity of interest rule, meaning the merger may be made on a tax-free basis if the shareholders of the acquired company hold an equity stake in the acquiring company. In addition, the acquirer must be approved by the boards of directors of both entities.
What Is a Revocable Beneficiary?  

A revocable beneficiary does not have guaranteed rights to receive compensation from an entity such as an insurance policy or a trust fund. The policy owner reserves the right to make changes to who receives payment, change the terms of the policy, or terminate the policy without the need of revocable beneficiary consent. Most life insurance policies have this feature.





Key Takeaways

Revocable beneficiaries do not have guaranteed rights to receive compensation from an entity such as an insurance policy or a trust fund. Most life insurance policies name revocable beneficiaries.Policy owners reserve the right to make changes to who receives payment, change the terms of the policy, or terminate the policy without the need of revocable beneficiary consent. The opposite of a revocable beneficiary is an irrevocable beneficiary, which has guaranteed rights to an insurance policy's payouts unless they agree to their removal from the policy as a beneficiary.


   Understanding Revocable Beneficiary  

It is standard to designate children and spouses as beneficiaries of the benefits from a life insurance or trust product. However, the policyholder may choose whomever they would like as the beneficiary.



The policyholder may also name their estate, another trust account, or a charity as the revocable beneficiary. After the policyholder's death, the named beneficiary will receive the death benefit from an insurance product, or gain control of the funds housed in a trust account.



The life insurance policyholder may earmark the percentage of total payout each primary beneficiary receives, the timing of payout, and contingencies to meet before policy payout. A policyholder is free to change both primary and contingent revocable recipients as often as they please.



A revocable trust offers a similar situation with estate planning. The trust—grantor—designates a beneficiary, which they may change at any time. As with an insurance policy, the beneficiary of a revocable trust expects to obtain trust assets as designated in the trust agreement. However, they are not guaranteed anything.  



A policyholder must have completed their last will before they can name an estate as the trustee of their policy. Tax accountants and estate planners are instrumental in structuring a sound estate or trust account. The last will and testament is a legal document stating the wishes of the individual for the distribution of property after their death.


   Naming Multiple Beneficiaries  

A policyholder may name multiple revocable beneficiaries. These recipients can be broken down into primary beneficiaries and contingent beneficiaries. A primary beneficiary has first rights to payouts upon the policyholder's death. However, a contingent beneficiary has rights to the payouts should the primary beneficiary die.


   Irrevocable Beneficiary  

A revocable beneficiary is the opposite of an irrevocable beneficiary. The latter has guaranteed rights to an insurance policy's payouts unless they agree to their removal from the policy as a beneficiary. Designating a revocable beneficiary is usually the best course of action as it allows you to change the beneficiary on the policy due to unforeseen circumstances. Designation of revocable beneficiaries is vital in cases of divorce and with business partnerships.



If a wife designates her husband as an irrevocable beneficiary of an insurance policy, for example, the wife remains the beneficiary even if a divorce follows. The same scenario may happen if a business lists a partner as an irrevocable beneficiary and later dissolve the relationship. To avoid legal troubles, the wishes of the policyholder must remain paramount, which becomes problematic with an irrevocable beneficiary.
What Is a Revocable Trust?  

A revocable trust is a trust whereby provisions can be altered or canceled depending on the wishes of the grantor or the originator of the trust. During the life of the trust, income earned is distributed to the grantor, and only after death does property transfer to the beneficiaries of the trust.



A revocable trust is helpful since it provides flexibility and income to the living grantor (also called the trustor). Provisions of the trust can be changed, and the estate will be transferred to the beneficiaries upon the trustor's death.





Key Takeaways

Trusts are created by individuals assigning a trustee to manage and distribute the assets to the beneficiaries after the owner's death.Revocable trusts let the living grantor change instructions, remove assets, or terminate the trust.Irrevocable trusts cannot be changed; assets placed inside them cannot be removed by anyone for any reason.Revocable trusts allow beneficiaries to avoid probate court and guardianship or conservatorship proceedings.However, revocable trusts have upfront costs, involve many steps to fund, and don't exempt the owner from needing a will.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   How a Revocable Trust Works  

A revocable trust is a part of estate planning that manages the assets of the grantor as the owner ages. The trust can be amended or revoked as the grantor desires and the property it holds is included in estate taxes. Depending on the trust’s directions, a trustee might be assigned to manage the assets or property within the trust. The trustee is also charged with distributing the assets to the beneficiaries. The trust remains private and becomes irrevocable upon the grantor’s death.



The money or property held by the trustee for the benefit of someone else is called the principal of the trust. The value of the principal can change due to the trustee’s expenses or the investment’s appreciation or depreciation in the financial markets. The collective assets comprise the trust fund. The person or people benefiting from the trust are the beneficiaries. Because a revocable trust holds the assets and it doesn't die, the trust avoids probate, which is the legal process of distributing assets of a will.



The grantor often acts as the trustee of a revocable trust. This is quite unlike an irrevocable trust. These trusts have been the centerpieces of most estate plans for decades.






All trusts are either revocable (i.e., living trusts, that can be changed by the grantor if need be), or irrevocable (fixed trusts that cannot be changed once established).


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Revocable Trust  

There are several advantages of establishing a revocable trust. If the grantor experiences health concerns through the aging process, a revocable trust allows the grantor’s chosen manager to take control of the principal. If the grantor owns real estate outside the state of the grantor's domicile and the real estate is included in the trust, the ancillary probate of the real estate is avoided.



If a beneficiary is not of legal age and cannot hold property, the minor’s assets are held in the trust rather than having the court appoint a guardian. If the grantor believes a beneficiary will not use the assets wisely, the trust allows a set amount of money to be distributed on a regular basis.



Administration of these trusts is quite easy. They're disregarded entities for income tax purposes, meaning that any assets in the trust carry through to their grantors during their lifetimes.



There are some disadvantages to revocable trusts. Implementing a revocable trust involves much time and effort. Assets must be retitled in the name of the trust to avoid probate. The grantor’s entire estate plan must be monitored annually to ensure the trust’s objectives are being met.



Costs of maintaining a revocable trust are greater than other estate planning tools such as a will. A revocable trust does not offer the grantor tax advantages. It's possible that not all assets will be included in the revocable trust, so the grantor must create a will to designate beneficiaries for the remaining assets, to avoid probate. During the grantor’s lifetime, creditors can still reach the property in a revocable trust.




Revocable Trust Pros and Cons

Pros

Flexible and revocable
Can avoid probate
Protection of trustor becomes incapacitated
Establishes privacy for assets



Cons

No immediate tax advantages
No creditor protection
Can be expensive to establish and administer







What Is a Revocable Living Trust?
A living trust is one established during one's lifetime and can be either revocable or irrevocable. A revocable living trust is often used in estate planning to avoid probate court and fights over the assets of an estate, Unlike an irrevocable trust, the revocable living trust does not confer tax or creditor protection.




Which Is Better: A Revocable or Irrevocable Trust?
Revocable and Irrevocable trusts are intended to be used for different purposes, and therefore each is best suited for those purposes. Revocable trusts are best for estate planning in conjunction with a will, where the assets remain under the control of the trustor. An irrevocable trust cannot be changed or altered once established, and the trust itself becomes a legal entity that owns the assets put inside of it. Because the trustor no longer controls those assets, there are certain tax advantages and creditor protections. These are best used for transferring high-value assets that could cause gift or estate tax issues in the future.




What Happens to a Revocable Trust When the Grantor Dies?
When the grantor (trustor) of a revocable trust dies, the trust automatically converts into an irrevocable trust.
What Is a Revolver?  

A revolver refers to a borrower—either an individual or a company—who carries a balance from month to month, via a revolving credit line. Borrowers are only obligated to make minimum monthly payments, which go toward paying interest and reducing principal debt. Revolvers are used in finance by corporations to fund working capital needs, which are expenses for day-to-day operations such as payroll.



A revolver can sometimes be referred to as a revolver loan or revolving debt. However, revolver loans are usually fixed-rate credit products and are synonymous with business loans. A revolving credit line typically comes with a variable interest rate set by a bank, meaning it can fluctuate with market conditions.





Key Takeaways

A revolver is a borrower, either an individual or a company, who carries a balance from month to month, via a revolving credit line.The term derives from revolving credit, a type of financing that allows a borrower to maintain an open credit line up to a specified limit and make minimum monthly payments based on the balance and interest rate per the credit agreement.Non-revolving financing involves a loan whereby a one-time payout is issued to the borrower, who must, in turn, make fixed payments according to a schedule.Low introductory rate offers and reward benefits make revolving credit lines attractive to consumers and small businesses.


   Understanding Revolvers  

The term revolver comes from revolving credit, a category of financing or borrowing. A revolver lets an individual consumer or a business open a line of credit through a credit card or line of credit bank account, where the credit issuer offers a specified level of credit over time. Credit issuers tend to profit handsomely from revolvers because the open-ended credit line means companies use them frequently and keep them in use for extended periods of time.


   Revolving Debt Versus Non-Revolving Debt  

Revolving and non-revolving credit lines each have distinct advantages. Revolving financing allows the borrower to maintain an open credit line up to a specified limit. Non-revolving financing involves a loan whereby a one-time payout is issued to the borrower who must, in turn, make fixed payments according to a schedule. Revolver financing doesn't involve fixed payments or coupon payments. Instead, a minimum monthly payment is due based on the balance and interest rate according to the terms of the credit agreement.





$1.065 trillion

The total amount of outstanding revolving debt in the United States as of January 2020, according to a Federal Reserve report.



Source: Federal Reserve.﻿﻿



Non-revolving credit loans are often obtained both by businesses seeking capital with which to finance new projects, and by consumers looking to buy homes, cars, and other big-ticket items. While the underwriting approval standards are typically the same for both revolving and non-revolving credit, revolving credit lines usually involve a more simplified application process.



The emergence of fintech technologies has dramatically increased the availability of both revolving and non-revolving credit products, providing greater access to credit to underbanked populations. Consumers in the market for non-revolving loans may now choose from independent lenders such as Lending Club or Prosper.


   Special Considerations: Revolving Credit Payments  

Consumers and small businesses are drawn to revolving credit due to low introductory rate offers and reward benefits. Furthermore, when borrowers make a payment, it reduces their outstanding debt balance and makes more money available for future borrowing. A borrower approved for a revolving credit line can keep the credit line open for an undefined period of time, as long as they remain in good standing with the credit issuer.
What Is Revolving Credit?  

Revolving credit is a credit line that remains available even as you pay the balance. Borrowers can access credit up to a certain amount and then have ongoing access to that amount of credit. They can repay the balance in full, or make regular payments. Each payment, minus the interest and fees charged, opens the credit again to the account holder.



Examples of revolving credit include credit cards, lines of credit, and home equity lines of credit (HELOCs). They work differently than installment loans. Learn about the pros and cons of a revolving line of credit.





Key Takeaways

Revolving credit is a line of credit that remains open even as you make payments. You can access money up to a preset amount, known as the credit limit.When you pay down a balance on the revolving credit, that money is once again available for use, minus the interest charges and any fees.You will pay interest on any balance carried over. Revolving lines of credit can be secured or unsecured.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   How Does Revolving Credit Work?  

When a borrower is approved for revolving credit, the bank or financial institution establishes a credit limit that can be used over and over again, all or in part. A credit limit is the maximum amount of money a financial institution is willing to extend to a customer seeking funds.



Revolving credit is generally approved with no date of expiration. The bank will allow the agreement to continue as long as the account remains in good standing. Over time, the bank may raise the credit limit to encourage its most dependable customers to spend more.



Borrowers pay interest monthly on the current balance owed. Because of the convenience and flexibility of revolving credit, a higher interest rate typically is charged on it compared to traditional installment loans. Revolving credit can come with variable interest rates that may be adjusted. The costs of revolving credit vary widely:



A home equity line of credit (HELOC) could be obtained with an interest rate slightly above mortgage rates. HELOCs are essentially second mortgages that use home equity as collateral.
At the other end of the scale, credit cards come with average interest rates that are significantly higher. The average credit card interest rate was over 20% as of April 2023.






Lenders consider several factors about a borrower's ability to pay before setting a credit limit. For an individual, the factors include credit score, current income, and employment stability. For an organization or company, the bank reviews the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement.


   Revolving Credit Examples  

Common examples of revolving credit include credit cards, home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), and personal and business lines of credit. Credit cards are the best-known type of revolving credit. However, there are numerous differences between a revolving line of credit and a consumer or business credit card.



First, there is no physical card involved in using a line of credit as there is with a credit card. Lines of credit are typically accessed via checks issued by the lender.



Second, a line of credit does not require the customer to make a purchase. It allows money to be transferred into a customer's bank account for any reason without requiring an actual transaction using that money. This is similar to a cash advance on a credit card but does not typically come with the high fees and higher interest charges that a cash advance can trigger.


   Types of Revolving Credit  

Revolving credit can be secured or unsecured. There are major differences between the two. A secured line of credit is guaranteed by collateral, such as a home in the case of a HELOC. Unsecured revolving credit is not guaranteed by collateral, or an asset—for example, a credit card (unless it is a secured credit card, which does require the consumer to make a cash deposit as collateral.)



A company may have its revolving line of credit secured by company-owned assets. In this case, the total credit extended to the customer may be capped at a certain percentage of the secured asset. For example, a financial institution may set a credit limit at 80% of a company's inventory balance. If the company defaults on its obligation to repay the debt, the financial institution can foreclose on the secured assets and sell them to pay off the debt.



Because unsecured credit is riskier for lenders, it typically has higher interest rates.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Revolving Credit  

The main advantage of revolving credit is that it allows borrowers the flexibility to access money when they need it. Many businesses small and large depend on revolving credit to keep their access to cash steady through seasonal fluctuations in their costs and sales.



As with consumers, rates for business lines of credit vary widely depending on the credit history of the business and whether the line of credit is secured with collateral. And like consumers, businesses can keep their borrowing costs minimal by paying down their balances to zero every month.



Revolving credit can be a risky way to borrow if not managed prudently. A significant part of your credit score (30%) is your credit utilization rate. A high credit utilization rate can have a negative impact on your credit score. Most credit experts recommend keeping this rate at 30% or below.


   Revolving Credit vs. Installment Loan  

Revolving credit differs from an installment loan, which requires a fixed number of payments including interest over a set period of time. Revolving credit requires only a minimum payment plus any fees and interest charges, with the minimum payment based on the current balance.



Revolving credit is a good indicator of credit risk and has the potential to impact an individual's credit score considerably. Installment loans, on the other hand, can be viewed more favorably on an individual's credit report, assuming all payments are made on time.



Revolving credit implies that a business or individual is pre-approved for a loan. A new loan application and credit reevaluation do not need to be completed for each instance of using the revolving credit.



Also, revolving credit is intended for shorter-term and smaller loans. For larger loans, financial institutions require more structure, including installment payments in preset amounts.




Is It Good to Have Revolving Credit?
Revolving credit is good to have in many cases, such as when you need access to funds and you want to pay them back over time. But, if not used responsibly, revolving credit could cause financial strain.




What Is a Good Amount of Revolving Credit to Have?
A good amount of revolving credit to have to best help your credit score is below 30% of your available credit. If you spend more than 30% of your available credit, your credit score will likely decline. Generally, the lower your credit utilization ratio, or the proportion of your balance to available credit, the better your credit score.




How Can Revolving Credit Help Your Credit Score?
Revolving credit can boost your credit score if you use it responsibly. To get the most out of revolving credit, make your minimum payments on time. Try to make more than the minimum payment or pay off your balances in full each month to avoid interest charges. And aim to keep your credit utilization ratio below 30%.


   The Bottom Line  

Revolving credit is a credit line that can be a valuable financial tool to help you pay for things. If you use revolving credit responsibly, you can build your credit score and potentially enjoy rewards like cash back or travel points. If you have a revolving credit line, be sure you make minimum payments on time, or your credit score could suffer.
What Is a Revolving Door?  

The term "revolving door" refers to the movement of high-level employees from public-sector jobs to private-sector jobs and vice versa. The idea is that there is a revolving door between the two sectors as many legislators and regulators become lobbyists and consultants for the industries they once regulated and some private industry heads or lobbyists receive government appointments that relate to their former private posts.



Such instances have grown in democracies in recent years with increased lobbying efforts and have led to debate over the extent former government officials are allowed to utilize connections formed and knowledge attained in previous jobs in public service to enrich themselves or be overly influential on shaping or watering down pending legislation.





Key Takeaways

A revolving door is the movement of high-level employees from public-sector jobs to private sector jobs and vice versa.Proponents of the revolving door say having specialists in private lobby groups and running public departments ensures a higher level of expertise is at work when making and implementing public policy.Policies that are supposed to prevent or limit the revolving door practices aren't effective in the world's largest democracies.


   How Revolving Doors Work  

While it is inevitable that workers switch between the public and private sectors, the growing influence of money in politics has placed the revolving door phenomenon into the spotlight.



Between 1998 and 2022, the amount of money spent on lobbying in the United States more than doubled to $3.1 billion. It has led to the concern that corporations and special interest groups are able to leverage their money to buy influence and access to key politicians.



The revolving door may also lead to conflicts of interest, as the regulatory and legislative decisions politicians make may directly benefit them soon after they leave office and work in the private sector.






The revolving door phenomenon is present in numerous industries, levels of government, and political affiliations.


  Advantages of a Revolving Door  

Lobbyists who have participated in the revolving door say that they are cashing in on their expertise rather than their connections. "What you know" is more important than "who you know," for example. The argument for having a revolving door is that having specialists within private lobby groups and running public departments ensures a higher quality of information when making regulatory decisions.



One study that investigated this assertion found that when a U.S. senator or representative leaves office the lobbyist that worked with them sees their earnings drop by an average of 20%. This translates to $177,000 per year and may go on for three years or longer, proving that it is difficult for a lobbyist to offset the loss of a key political contact.


   Special Considerations  

Policies meant to prevent or limit revolving door practices are few and limited in effect in the world's largest democracies. In the United States, there are detailed rules that govern how and when ex-government officials may be employed in the private sector. For example, former government officials who make decisions on contracts must either wait a year to take a job with a military contractor or move to a role or unit with no connection to their government work.



However, this rule does not apply to policymakers, who may join corporations and company boards immediately. In France, there is a three-year waiting period after leaving public service to work in the private sector. Japan, which has made attempts to limit their own revolving door issues, has a term for career public servants who leave to join the private sector: amakudari, or "descent from heaven."
What Is a Revolving Loan Facility?  

A revolving loan facility is a form of credit issued by a financial institution that provides the borrower with the ability to draw down or withdraw, repay, and withdraw again. A revolving loan is considered a flexible financing tool due to its repayment and re-borrowing accommodations. It is not considered a term loan because, during an allotted period of time, the facility allows the borrower to repay the loan or take it out again. In contrast, a term loan provides a borrower with funds followed by a fixed payment schedule.





Key Takeaways

A revolving loan facility provides loans to borrowers with a great deal of flexibility in terms of repayments and re-borrowing.The interest rate on a revolving loan facility is typically that of a variable line of credit, rather than a fixed rate.A revolving loan or line facility allows a business to borrow money as needed for funding working capital needs and continuing operations such as meeting payroll and payables.


   How a Revolving Loan Facility Works  

A revolving loan facility is typically a variable line of credit used by public and private businesses. The line is variable because the interest rate on the credit line can fluctuate. In other words, if interest rates rise in the credit markets, a bank might increase the rate on a variable-rate loan. The rate is often higher than rates charged on other loans and changes with the prime rate or another market indicator. The financial institution typically charges a fee for extending the loan.



Criteria for approval of the loan depends on the stage, size, and industry in which the business operates. The financial institution typically examines the company’s financial statements, including the income statement, statement of cash flows, and balance sheet when deciding whether the business can repay a debt. The odds of the loan getting approved increases if a company can demonstrate steady income, strong cash reserves, and a good credit score. The balance on a revolving loan facility may move between zero and the maximum approved value.


   How Do Businesses Use a Revolving Loan Facility?  

A revolving loan or line facility allows a business to borrow money as needed for funding working capital needs and continuing operations. A revolving line is especially helpful during times of revenue fluctuations since bills and unexpected expenses can be paid by drawing from the loan. Drawing against the loan brings down the available balance, whereas making payments on the debt brings up the available balance.



The financial institution may review the revolving loan facility annually. If a company’s revenue shrinks, the institution may decide to lower the maximum amount of the loan. Therefore, it is important for the business owner to discuss the company’s circumstances with the financial institution to avoid a reduction in or termination of the loan.






A revolving loan facility provides a variable line of credit that allows people or businesses great flexibility with the funds they are borrowing.


   Example of a Revolving Loan Facility  

Supreme Packaging secures a revolving loan facility for $500,000. The company uses the credit line for covering payroll as it waits for accounts receivable payments. Although the business uses up to $250,000 of the revolving loan facility each month, it pays off most of the balance and monitors how much available credit remains. Because another company signed a $500,000 contract for Supreme Packaging to package its products for the next five years, the packaging company is using $200,000 of its revolving loan facility for purchasing the required machinery.
What Is Rho?  

Rho is the rate at which the price of a derivative changes relative to a change in the risk-free rate of interest. Rho measures the sensitivity of an option or options portfolio to a change in interest rate. Rho may also refer to the aggregated risk exposure to interest rate changes that exist for a book of several options positions.



For example, if an option or options portfolio has a rho of 1.0, then for every 1 percentage-point increase in interest rates, the value of the option (or portfolio) increases 1 percent. Options that are most sensitive to changes in interest rates are those that are at-the-money and with the longest time to expiration.



In mathematical finance, quantities that measure the price sensitivity of a derivative to a change in an underlying parameter are known as the "Greeks." The Greeks are important tools in risk management because they allow a manager, trader, or investor to measure the change in value of an investment or portfolio to a small change in a parameter. More important, this measurement allows the risk to be isolated, thus allowing a manager, trader, or investor to rebalance the portfolio to achieve a desired level of risk relative to that parameter. The most common Greeks are delta, gamma, vega, theta, and rho.





Key Takeaways

Rho measures the price change for a derivative relative to a change in the risk-free rate of interest.Rho is usually considered to be the least important of all option Greeks.


   Rho Calculation and Rho in Practice  

The exact formula for rho is complicated. But it is calculated as the first derivative of the option's value with respect to the risk-free rate. Rho measures the expected change in an option's price for a 1 percent change in a U.S. Treasury bill's risk-free rate.



For example, assume that a call option is priced at $4 and has a rho of 0.25. If the risk-free rate rises 1 percent, say from 3 percent to 4 percent, the value of the call option would rise from $4 to $4.25.



Call options generally rise in price as interest rates increase and put options generally decrease in price as interest rates increase. Thus, call options have positive rho, while put options have negative rho.



Assume that put option is priced at $9 and has a rho of -0.35. If interest rates were to decrease from 5 percent to 4 percent, then the price of this put option would increase from $9 to $9.35. In this same scenario, assuming the call option mentioned above, its price would decrease from $4 to $3.75.



Rho is larger for options that are in-the-money and decrease steadily as the option changes to become out-of-the-money. Also, rho increases as the time to expiration increases. Long-term equity anticipation securities (LEAPs), which are options that generally have expiration dates that are greater than one year away, are far more sensitive to changes in the risk-free rate and, thus, have larger rho than shorter-term options.



Though rho is a primary input in the Black–Scholes options-pricing model, a change in interest rates generally has a minor overall impact on the pricing of options. Because of this, rho is usually considered to be the least important of all the option Greeks.
What Is Ricardian Equivalence?  

Ricardian equivalence is an economic theory that says that financing government spending out of current taxes or future taxes (and current deficits) will have equivalent effects on the overall economy. 



This means that attempts to stimulate an economy by increasing debt-financed government spending will not be effective because investors and consumers understand that the debt will eventually have to be paid for in the form of future taxes. The theory argues that people will save based on their expectation of increased future taxes to be levied in order to pay off the debt, and that this will offset the increase in aggregate demand from the increased government spending. This also implies that Keynesian fiscal policy will generally be ineffective at boosting economic output and growth. 



This theory was developed by David Ricardo in the early 19th century and later was elaborated upon by Harvard professor Robert Barro. For this reason, Ricardian equivalence is also known as the Barro-Ricardo equivalence proposition.





Key Takeaways

Ricardian equivalence maintains that government deficit spending is equivalent to spending out of current taxes.Because taxpayers will save to pay the expected future taxes, this will tend to offset the macroeconomic effects of increased government spending.This theory has been widely interpreted as undermining the Keynesian notion that deficit spending can boost economic performance, even in the short run.


   Understanding Ricardian Equivalence  

Governments can finance their spending either by taxing or by borrowing (and presumably taxing later to service the debt). In either case, real resources are withdrawn from the private economy when the government purchases them, but the method of financing is different. Ricardo argued that under certain circumstances, even the financial effects of these can be considered equivalent, because taxpayers understand that even if their current taxes are not raised in the case of deficit spending, their future taxes will go up to pay the government debt. As a result, they will be forced to set aside some current income to save up to pay the future taxes. 



Because these savings necessarily involve forgone current consumption, in a real sense they effectively shift the future tax burden into the present. In either case, the increase in current government spending and consumption of real resources is accompanied by a corresponding decrease in private spending and consumption of real resources. Financing government spending with current taxes or deficits (and future taxes) are thus equivalent in both nominal and real terms. 



Economist Robert Barro formally modeled and generalized Ricardian equivalence, based on the modern economic theory of rational expectations and the lifetime income hypothesis. Barro’s version of Ricardian equivalence has been widely interpreted as undermining Keynesian fiscal policy as a tool to boost economic performance. Because investors and consumers adjust their current spending and saving behaviors based on rational expectations of future taxation and their expected lifetime after-tax income, reduced private consumption and investment spending will offset any government sending in excess of current tax revenues. The underlying idea is that no matter how a government chooses to increase spending, whether through borrowing more or taxing more, the outcome is the same and aggregate demand remains unchanged.


   Special Considerations  
  Arguments Against the Ricardian Equivalence  

Some economists, including Ricardo himself, have argued that Ricardo's theory is based upon unrealistic assumptions. For instance, it assumes that people will accurately anticipate a hypothetical future tax increase and that capital markets function fluidly enough that consumers and taxpayers will be able to easily shift between present consumption and future consumption (via saving and investment).






Many modern economists acknowledge that Ricardian equivalence depends on assumptions that may not always be realistic.


  Real-World Evidence of Ricardian Equivalence  

The theory of Ricardian equivalence has been largely dismissed by Keynesian economists and ignored by public policy makers who follow their advice. However, there is some evidence that it has validity.



In a study of the effects of the 2008 financial crisis on European Union nations, a strong correlation was found between government debt burdens and net financial assets accumulated in 12 of the 15 nations studied. In this case, Ricardian equivalence holds up. Countries with high levels of government debt have comparatively high levels of household savings.



In addition, a number of studies of spending patterns in the U.S. have found that private sector savings increase by about 30 cents for every additional $1 of government borrowing. This suggests that the Ricardian theory is at least partially correct.



Overall however, the empirical evidence for Ricardian equivalence is somewhat mixed, and likely depends on how well the assumptions that consumers and investors will form rational expectations, base their decisions on their lifetime income, and not face liquidity constraints on their behavior will actually hold in the real world.
What Is a Rider?  

A rider is an insurance policy provision that adds benefits to or amends the terms of a basic insurance policy. Riders provide insured parties with additional coverage options, or they may even restrict or limit coverage. There is an additional cost if a party decides to purchase a rider. Most are low in cost because they involve minimal underwriting. A rider is also referred to as an insurance endorsement. It can be added to policies that cover life, homes, autos, and rental units.





Key Takeaways

A rider is an insurance policy provision that adds benefits to or amends the terms of a basic insurance policy to provide additional coverage.Riders tailor insurance coverage to meet the needs of the policyholder.Riders come at an extra cost—on top of the premiums an insured party pays.Riders come in various forms, including long-term care, term conversion, waiver of premiums, and exclusionary riders.In some cases, a policyholder may not be able to add a rider after the policy has been initiated.


   Understanding a Rider  

Some policyholders have specific needs not covered by standard insurance policies, so riders help them create insurance products that meet those needs. Insurance companies offer supplemental insurance riders to customize policies by adding varying types of additional coverage. The benefits of insurance riders include increased savings from not purchasing a separate policy and the option to buy different coverage at a later date. 



Say an insured person has a terminal illness and adds an accelerated death benefit rider on a life insurance policy. This rider would provide the insured with a cash benefit while living. The insured may use these funds how they wish, perhaps to improve their quality of life or to pay for medical and final expenses. When the insured passes away, their designated beneficiaries receive a reduced death benefit—the face value less the portion used under the accelerated death benefit rider.



Buying an insurance rider is up to the insured party, who should weigh the cost against their individual needs. Although riders may sound appealing, they come at a cost—on top of the premiums for the policy itself. Certain homeowner insurance policies come with extra earthquake riders, but someone who doesn't live near a fault line probably doesn't need this additional coverage. Another thing to consider: a rider may duplicate coverage, so it's important to look over the basic insurance contract.






Before adding a rider to an insurance policy, the holder should weigh the cost of the rider and decide whether they really need it. It is also wise to check that the rider does not duplicate coverage already included in the basic policy.


   Types of Riders  

Riders come in various forms, including long-term care, term conversion, waiver of premiums, and exclusionary.


  Long-Term Care Rider  

Long-term care (LTC) coverage is often available as a rider to a cash value insurance product such as universal, whole, or variable life insurance. A rider can address specific long-term care issues. The funds reduce the policy's death benefit when they are used. Designated beneficiaries receive the death benefit less the amount paid out under the long-term care rider.



In some cases, the policyholder's needs may exceed the total benefit of the life insurance policy. So it may be more advantageous to purchase a stand-alone LTC policy. If the LTC rider is unused, the policyholder saves in costs when compared to purchasing a stand-alone LTC policy.


  Term Conversion Rider  

Term life insurance provides coverage for a limited time, typically 10 to 30 years. Once the policy expires, the policyholder is not guaranteed new coverage at the same terms. The policyholder's medical condition may make it difficult or impossible to obtain another policy.



A term conversion rider allows the policyholder to convert an existing term life insurance to permanent life insurance without a medical exam. This is typically favorable to young parents seeking to lock in coverage to protect their families in the future.


  Waiver of Premium Riders  

This rider is generally available only when the policy begins and may not be available in every state. Under the waiver of premium rider, the insured party is relieved of premium payments if the policyholder becomes critically ill, disabled, or seriously injured. There may be certain requirements to add this rider, such as age limits and certain health requirements.


  Exclusionary Riders  

Exclusionary riders restrict coverage under a policy for a specific event or condition. Exclusionary riders are mainly found in individual health insurance policies. For example, coverage can be restricted for a preexisting condition detailed in the policy provisions. 



As of September 2010, the Affordable Care Act (ACA) prohibited exclusionary riders from being applied to children. Exclusionary riders have not been permitted in any healthcare insurance since 2014.


   Example of a Rider  

A typical homeowners insurance policy includes coverage for structural damage, personal property damage or loss, and personal liability coverage. However, each standard protection is also subject to coverage limits or restrictions. A rider broadens the standard coverage.



For example, an expensive piece of jewelry can be protected by extending personal property coverage through a scheduled personal property rider. A homeowners policy may have a coverage limit of $50,000 for personal property, but it might also have a sub-limit of $1,500 for jewelry. If valuable jewelry is stolen or damaged by a fire, the policyholder would only be reimbursed up to $1,500 to help replace it. A rider would extend the reimbursement amount for certain valuable items.






A standalone insurance policy will typically offer more coverage than a rider. Thus, check with an insurance expert whether you should invest in a whole new policy rather than rely on a rider for coverage. 


   Rider Insurance FAQs  
  What Is a Rider in Insurance?  

An insurance rider is an adjustment or an add-on to a basic insurance policy. Riders are designed to provide additional benefit over the stated coverage in the basic policy. A rider is useful for tailoring an insurance policy to the precise needs of the insured entity.


  Does a Rider Cost More Money?  

A rider is added to an existing policy in exchange for a fee payable to the insurer.


  What Are the Benefits of a Rider?  

Riders allow insurance policies to be tailored to meet the needs of the policyholder. For example, a homeowner might need additional personal property insurance if they have certain valuable items, or they may need additional structural insurance if they live in a region where inclement weather is a threat to their home. Life insurance riders allow policyholders to purchase more insurance as they age. Doing so might be cheaper than going through the typical underwriting process required for a new policy. Also, some insurance policies allow for the accumulation of cash value for the policy on a tax-deferred basis.


  What Are Home Owners Insurance Riders?  

Riders for homeowners include the following:



Scheduled personal property coverage. This rider extends coverage for valuables, such as jewelry and antiques, and protects them against additional risks that a standard homeowners policy does not cover, for example, loss or misplacement.



Water backup coverage. A homeowner's policy may not cover water damage from a backed-up drain or sump pump. This type of rider would cover the cost of backed-up drains and water damage.



Building code coverage. If a home is not up to building code standards when damage occurs, the owner may have to pay out of pocket to bring the structure up to code. This type of rider will pay the additional cost of bringing the home up to code after a covered claim.



Business property coverage. If you run a business out of your home, you may need additional coverage to protect business equipment or products stored in your home.



Identify theft restoration coverage. Having your identity stolen can incur costs such as legal fees. This type of rider would ensure that the policyholder is reimbursed for any expenses should their identity be stolen.


  How Can I Drop an Insurance Rider?  

Most insurance companies will allow you to drop a rider from a policy simply by filling out a form that authorizes its removal.
What Is a Right of First Offer?  

A right of first offer (ROFO) is a contractual obligation that allows the holder to purchase an asset before the owner tries to sell it to someone else. If the right holder is no longer interested in the property, the seller can then sell it to a third party. Rights of first offer are most commonly used in the real estate industry and the sale of businesses.





Key Takeaways

A right of first offer says that a rights holder can buy or bid on an asset before the owner tries to sell it to a third party.These rights are common with real estate and business sales and are often written into the lease agreement or business partnership.Right holders are usually either tenants or investors as the intention of the right is to minimize property or business disruption.A right of first refusal, different from a right of first offer, gives the right holder the option to match an offer already received by the seller.A right of first offer is said to favor the seller, while a right of first refusal favors the buyer.


   Understanding a Right of First Offer  

A right of first offer is usually written into a contract such as a lease agreement or business partnership. It is triggered when the owner wants to sell the asset or real property. Under the terms of the contract, the owner is obliged to give the holder of the right of first offer the first chance to buy the property. The right holder has a specific amount of time to make an offer before the right expires. The seller is free to accept or reject the offer.



If the seller rejects the offer, the owner can then sell it to a third party. If the attempts at selling to a third party are unsuccessful, the seller can come back to the right holder for a new offer. At this point, the right holder is not bound by their original offer.



Sellers typically include landlords and business owners, while right holders are generally tenants and investors. It is common in commercial real estate for the owner of commercial office space to provide a right of first offer to whomever is occupying the space being considered for future sale.





Good Faith

As the right of first offer evaluates what their offer will be, both parties are expected to act in good faith. The seller must provide all relevant and applicable information to the holder as part of the due dilligence process.


   Special Considerations  

The most common situation where a right of first offer is used is in real estate between a landlord and tenant. The tenant may want a right of first offer from the landlord to avoid being forced to relocate in the event of a sale of the property. The tenant may wish to make a reasonable offer on the property. Meanwhile, the landlord may consider the offer to make a quick sale and minimize legal and brokerage fees.



The right of first offer is also used when a business is being sold off. A business owner may give the right of first offer to partners or investors before putting it on the general market to sell to a third party.


  Right of First Offer vs. Right of First Refusal  

A right of first offer is closely related to a right of first refusal, but the former is considered to favor the seller while the latter is considered to favor the prospective buyer. A right of first refusal gives the holder of the right the option to match an offer that has been received by someone wishing to sell an asset. Assets with a right of first refusal attached can be more difficult to sell, because potential buyers may not want to go to the trouble of negotiating a deal that must be offered to another party first.


  Sale Price Restrictions  

In many right of first offer situations, there are conditions around the sale price and what the seller is allowed to accept. The seller is often bound to keeping the price of the right of first offer within a certain percentage should the property eventually go to the full market.



For example, imagine a right of first offer holder extends a bid to purchase a specific property for $1 million. Should the seller decline, they are often constricted with what purchase price they are allowed to receive from the market.



If the contract stipulates the seller cannot accept a market offer within 5% of the right of first offer bid, the seller can only accept a bid of $1.05 million or higher. Otherwise, the right of first offer holder typically has the right to resubmit a bid.




What Is a Right of First Offer?
A right of first offer is a contractual obligation that grants the holder the ability but not the requirement to issue the first bid on the sale of property. Before a seller can go to the broad market to sell the property, they must receive an offer from the holder.




What Is the Difference Between Right of First Offer and Right of First Refusal?
A right of first offer gives the holder the right to submit the first bid on the potential sale of a property. A right of first refusal gives the holder the right to match or refuse to match an offer that has been made to a seller.




How Long Is a Right of First Offer Valid?
The term of every right of first offer will vary. It is often structured to ensure enough time is available for both parties to conduct due diligence. Once notified of the seller's desire to sell property and receipt of appropriate information, the right of first offer holder often has 30 to 60 days to respond with an offer.
What Is a Right Of First Refusal?  

Right of first refusal (ROFR), also known as first right of refusal, is a contractual right to enter into a business transaction with a person or company before anyone else can. If the party with this right declines to enter into a transaction, the obligor is free to entertain other offers. This is a popular clause among lessees of real estate because it gives them preference to the properties in which they occupy. However, it may limit what the owner could receive from interested parties competing for the property.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   How a Right Of First Refusal Works  

Rights of first refusal clauses are similar to options contracts as the holder has the right, but not the obligation, to enter into a transaction that generally involves an asset. The person with this right has the opportunity to establish a contract or an agreement on an asset before others can. 



Rights of first refusal are usually requested by individuals or companies who want to see how a business or opportunity will turn out. The rights holder may prefer to get involved at a later point, rather than make the outlay and commitment right away, and a right of first refusal allows them to do so.



Right of first refusal clauses can be customized to create variations of the standard agreement. As such, the parties can incorporate changes, such as specifying how long the right is valid or allowing a third-party nominated by the buyer to make the purchase. Typically, right of first refusal agreements are bound by time. After the period expires, the seller is free to pursue other buyers.





Key Takeaways

A right of first refusal is a contractual right giving its holder the option to transact with the other contracting party before others can.The ROFR assures the holder that they will not lose their rights to an asset if others express interest.The right of first refusal can limit the owner's potential profits as they are restricted from negotiating third-party offers before the rights' holder.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Rights of First Refusal  

For the entitled party, a right of first refusal is sort of an insurance policy, assuring that they will not lose rights to an asset that they want or need. For example, a commercial tenant may prefer to lease a location; however, he may buy the premises if it meant that he would be evicted if the property sold to a new owner. In such a case, the tenant would negotiate to have a right of first refusal clause incorporated into his lease. This way, if leasing becomes impossible, he would have the option to buy the property before others have the chance. 



Conversely, the right of first refusal is a hindrance for the property owner since it limits the ability to negotiate with multiple buyers, who in a bidding war could drive up the price. In the example above, the landlord may have a difficult time attracting buyers if they know that the current tenant is always first in line to buy. However, if attracting the right tenant necessitates a right of first refusal, the property owner might still do it.


   Special Considerations  

In the business world, rights of first refusal are commonly seen in joint venture situations. The partners in a joint venture generally possess the right of first refusal on buying out the stakes held by other partners who leave the venture. Similarly, a ROFO gives non-selling shareholders in a shareholder agreement the right to purchase shares of selling shareholders before they are offered to the public.



Rights of first refusal are a common feature in many other areas from real estate to sports and entertainment. For example, a publishing house may ask for the right of first refusal on future books by a new author.
What Is the Right of Rescission?  

The right of rescission is a right, set forth by the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) under U.S. federal law, of a borrower to cancel a home equity loan or home equity line of credit (HELOC) with a new lender, or to cancel a refinance transaction done with another lender other than the current mortgagee, within three days of closing. This right is provided on a no-questions-asked basis, and the lender must give up its claim to the property and refund all fees within 20 days of exercising the right of rescission.





Key Takeaways

Established by the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) under U.S. federal law, the right of rescission allows a borrower to cancel a home equity loan, home equity line of credit (HELOC), or refinance with a new lender, other than with the current mortgagee, within three days of closing.The right of rescission is provided on a no-questions-asked basis.The lender must give up its claim to the property and refund all fees within 20 days of the borrower exercising the right of rescission.Lenders must give borrowers a notice advising them of their right to rescind.


   Understanding the Right of Rescission  

The TILA protects the public against inaccurate and unfair credit billing and credit card practices. Among other things, it requires lenders to provide borrowers with relevant information about their loans, along with the right to cancel them. The right of rescission was created to protect consumers from unscrupulous lenders, giving borrowers a cooling-off period and the time to change their minds.



Not all mortgage transactions have the right of rescission. This right exists only for home equity loans, home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), and refinances of existing mortgages in which the refinancing is done with a lender other than the current mortgagee. The right of rescission does not exist on a mortgage for the purchase of a home, a refinance transaction with the existing lender, a state agency mortgage, or a mortgage on a second home or investment property.






The right of rescission applies only when the borrower’s principal residence is used as collateral. It does not apply to the purchase of a new home, a refinance transaction with the existing lender, a state agency mortgage, or a mortgage on a second home or investment property.


   How to Exercise the Right of Rescission  

The TILA does not provide a formal way for consumers to exercise their right of rescission. However, the lender is obligated to give the borrower a notice advising of the right to rescind, and that notice should include the procedure used by the lender when a borrower wants to cancel a transaction.



Once this documentation has been received and all the paperwork has been signed, the borrower has three business days to mull over the decision and potentially change their minds. If they do opt to cancel within the time frame, they must make their intention clear using the procedure explained by the lender.



You cannot exercise the three-day cancellation rule by phone or in a face-to-face conversation. Generally speaking, the process must be completed by putting in writing your desire to renege on the contract.






If a borrower wants to cancel a loan, they must do so by midnight of the third day following the completion of the refinancing and after having received a mandatory Truth in Lending disclosure from the lender and two copies of a notice advising them of their right to rescind. The clock starts ticking only after all of these events have occurred.



Borrowers also have the obligation to prove that the notice was given during the right period and should thus make sure that they can document the moment when the notice was sent.




How long is the right of rescission?
The right of recission lasts three business days and commences the moment when all of the following events occur:The mortgage contract is signedYou receive from the lender the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) disclosure that provides key information about the terms of the loan and two copies of a TILA notice explaining your right to rescind the contract




What happens if I don’t receive the TILA disclosure or notice of my right to rescind?
If you can prove that you never received these documents or that they contain inaccurate information, then the three-business-day cooling-off period could be extended up to three years.




How do I cancel my loan agreement?
The right of recission procedure should be explained to you in the paperwork that the lender is obligated to send you as part of the loan. Generally, you will need to reveal your intention to cancel the loan in writing and then send it off to the lender or the closing agent before the deadline passes.
What Is a Right-to-Work Law?  

A right-to-work (RTW) law gives workers the freedom to choose whether or not to join a labor union in the workplace. This law also makes it optional for employees in unionized workplaces to pay for union dues or other membership fees required for union representation, whether they are in the union or not.



Right-to-work is also known as workplace freedom or workplace choice. While the name of the law implies that it provides freedom to workers, critics argue that it weakens unions and empowers corporations instead.





Key Takeaways

A right-to-work (RTW) law gives workers the choice of whether or not to join a union.States without right-to-work laws often require employees to pay union dues and fees as a term for employment.Proponents of right-to-work laws maintain that workers shouldn’t be obliged to join a union.Critics also argue that right-to-work laws weaken union power and benefit corporations.Research shows that states with RTW laws see higher employment but lower wages for workers (but higher executive pay). Studies also point to lower unionization rates.


   Understanding Right-to-Work Laws  

Currently, 27 states have passed right-to-work laws, giving employees the choice of whether or not to join a union. Right-to-work laws in these states prohibit contracts that require workers to join a labor union in order to get or keep a job.



States without right-to-work laws require employees to pay union dues and fees as a term for employment. While labor unions are still fully operative in right-to-work states, the law protects these states’ employees by making payment of union fees an elective decision not bound to the employees’ employment contracts.






As of early 2021, there is no federal right-to-work law. The law only applies in states that choose to enact it.


   History of Right-to-Work Laws  

In 1935, the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), or the Wagner Act, was signed into law by President Franklin Roosevelt. The Act protected the rights of employees to create a self-organized organization and mandated employers to engage in collective bargaining and employment negotiations with these self-organized organizations, called labor unions. Employees were also compelled to pay the union for representing and protecting their interests. The NLRA required union membership as a condition for employment, thereby restricting employment to union members only.



In 1947, President Harry Truman amended parts of the NLRA when the Taft-Hartley Act was passed during his presidency. Truman initially vetoed the bill when it arrived on his desk, stating that the Act would be "unfair to the working people of this country," understanding that it would serve to weaken union membership and collective bargaining power. In the end, Congress overturned Truman's veto.



The Taft-Hartley Act effectively created current right-to-work laws, which allow states to prohibit compulsory membership in a union as a condition for employment in the public and private sectors of the country.



In February 2021, Congress re-introduced the National Right to Work Act. It would give employees nationwide a choice to opt-out of joining or paying dues to unions. The Act was also introduced in 2019 and 2017 but stalled.



In March 2021, the United States House of Representatives passed the Protecting the Right to Organize Act (PRO Act). The pro-union legislation overrides right-to-work laws and would make it easier to form unions. The PRO Act faces an uphill battle in the Senate, as most Republicans oppose it.






The following states have right-to-work laws: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Kansas, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.﻿﻿


   Arguments for and Against Right-to-Work Laws  

Proponents of right-to-work laws agree that workers shouldn’t be obliged to join a union if they are not interested. These supporters believe that states with a right-to-work law attract more businesses than states without it. This is because companies would rather function in an environment where workplace disputes or threats of labor strikes would not interrupt their daily business operations.



Advocates of these laws also agree that right-to-work states have a higher employment rate, after-tax income for employees, and a lower cost of living than states that have not implemented this law.



Critics maintain that workers in right-to-work states earn lower wages compared to those in the states that don't have the law. Opponents also argue that since federal law requires unions to represent all workers, regardless of whether they pay union dues, free riders are encouraged to benefit from union services at no cost to them. This increases the cost of operating and maintaining a union organization.



In addition, critics claim that if businesses are given a choice to do without unions, they are likely to lower the safety standards set in place for their employees. And by making it harder for unions to operate and represent workers, economic inequality will be exacerbated, and corporate power over employees will increase significantly.




What Has Been the Effect of Right-to-Work Laws on Employment?
Economists have looked at employment growth in regions with and without right-to-work (RTW) laws over the past decades. On net, they find that states with RTW laws have shown an increase in the manufacturing share of employment and increased labor participation. However, while employment levels are higher, average wages among workers also tend to be lower. Meanwhile, dividends to shareholders and executive compensation has increased post-RTW.




What Has Been the Effect of Right-to-Work Laws on Unions?
Studies show that states with right-to-work laws have seen a dramatic decrease in union membership and unionization rates. Other research suggests that RTW laws impact corporate policies by decreasing that bargaining power.




How Many States Have Right-to-Work Laws?
As of 2022, 27 out of the 50 states in the U.S. have right-to-work laws in place.


   The Bottom Line  

Right-to-work laws prohibit unions and employers from making security agreements that could force workers to become paying union members. While these types of laws may appear to give workers more freedom to choose whether or not to join a union or pay union fees or dues, critics argue that such laws actually undermine worker solidarity and give more power to employers. Research shows that states with right-to-work laws feature higher employment rates but lower average wages and union membership than states without it. At present, there is no federal right-to-work law, but 27 states have one on the books.
What Is a Rights Offering (Issue)?  

A rights offering (rights issue) is a group of rights offered to existing shareholders to purchase additional stock shares, known as subscription warrants, in proportion to their existing holdings. These are considered to be a type of option since they give a company's stockholders the right, but not the obligation, to purchase additional shares in the company.



In a rights offering, the subscription price at which each share may be purchased is generally discounted relative to the current market price. Rights are often transferable, allowing the holder to sell them in the open market.





Key Takeaways

A rights issue is an invitation to existing shareholders to purchase additional new shares in the company.In a rights offering, each shareholder receives the right to purchase a pro-rata allocation of additional shares at a specific price and within a specific period (usually 16 to 30 days). Shareholders are not obligated to exercise this right. Cash-strapped companies can turn to rights issues to raise money when they really need it.







Rights Offering


   How a Rights Offering (Issue) Works  

In a rights offering, each shareholder receives the right to purchase a pro-rata allocation of additional shares at a specific price and within a specific period (usually 16 to 30 days). Shareholders, notably, are not obligated to exercise this right. 



A rights offering is effectively an invitation to existing shareholders to purchase additional new shares in the company. More specifically, this type of issue gives existing shareholders securities called "rights," which, well, give the shareholders the right to purchase new shares at a discount to the market price on a stated future date. The company is giving shareholders a chance to increase their exposure to the stock at a discount price.



But until the date at which the new shares can be purchased, shareholders may trade the rights on the market the same way that they would trade ordinary shares. The rights issued to a shareholder have value, thus compensating current shareholders for the future dilution of their existing shares' value. Dilution occurs because a rights offering spreads a company’s net profit over a wider number of shares. Thus, the company’s earnings per share, or EPS, decreases as the allocated earnings result in share dilution.


   Types of Rights Offerings  

There are two general types of rights offerings: direct rights offerings and insured/standby rights offerings. 



In direct rights offerings, there are no standby/backstop purchasers (purchasers willing to purchase unexercised rights) as the issuer only sells the number of exercised shares. If not subscribed properly, the issuer may be undercapitalized. 
Insured/standby rights offerings, usually the more expensive type, allow third parties/backstop purchasers (e.g. investment banks) to purchase unexercised rights. The backstop purchasers agree to the purchase prior to the rights offering. This type of agreement ensures the issuing company that their capital requirements will be met. 






In some cases, rights issued are not transferable. These are known as "non-renounceable rights." In other cases, the beneficiary of a rights issue may sell them to another party.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Rights Offerings  
  Advantages  

Companies generally offer rights when they need to raise money. Examples include when there is a need to pay off debt, purchase equipment, or acquire another company. In some cases, a company may use a rights offering to raise money when there are no other viable financing alternatives.



Other significant benefits of a rights offering are that the issuing company can bypass underwriting fees, there is no shareholder approval needed, and market interest in the issuer's common stock generally peaks. For existing shareholders, rights offerings present the opportunity to purchase additional shares at a discount.


  Disadvantages  

Sometimes, rights offerings present disadvantages to the issuing company and existing shareholders. Shareholders may disapprove because of their concern with dilution. The offering may result in more concentrated investor positions.



The issuing company, in an attempt to raise capital, may find that additional required filings and procedures associated with the rights offering are too costly and time-consuming; the costs of the rights offering may outweigh the benefits (cost-benefit principle). 




Why Would a Company Do a Rights Offering?
The main reason to do a rights offering is to raise capital. The capital can be used to expand the business or pay down existing debt, or any other need. Companies may issue rights offerings to existing shareholders as a benefit to shareholders as well as a way to avoid the time-consuming and costly process of underwriting and releasing more shares to the public.




How Do Rights Offerings Affect a Company's Stock Price?
Rights offerings dilute the value of existing shares because more shares have been released through the rights offering. This can harm the stock price, as well as the fact that a rights offering can be associated with companies that are struggling financially, so investor confidence is diminished, reducing the stock price.




Do I Have to Purchase Stock Through a Rights Offering?
Existing shareholders are not obligated to purchase additional stock through a rights offering; the offering simply offers them a chance to purchase more stock.


   The Bottom Line  

Rights offerings are additional shares of company stock offered to existing shareholders who are not obligated to buy the additional shares. The shares are offered at a discount, which is an incentive used to entice shareholders to buy stock. Companies issue rights offerings in order to raise capital for various reasons.
What Is a Ring-Fence?  

A ring-fence is a virtual barrier that segregates a portion of an individual's or company's financial assets from the rest. This may be done to reserve money for a specific purpose, to reduce taxes on the individual or company, or to protect the assets from losses incurred by riskier operations.



Moving a portion of assets offshore to reduce an investor's net worth or lower the taxes due on income is one example of ring-fencing.





Key Takeaways

A ring-fence in finance is a protective move to segregate some assets from the whole.Offshore banking is sometimes referred to as ring-fencing assets.More widely, ring-fencing can protect a portion of assets from some risks.


   Understanding Ring-Fences  

The term has its origins in the ring-fences that are built to keep farm animals in and predators out. In financial accounting, it is used to describe a number of strategies that are employed to protect a portion of assets from being mixed with the rest.






A new British law that went into effect at the start of 2019 requires financial institutions to ring-fence their everyday banking activities from their investment arms.



The ring-fence may involve transferring a portion of assets from one jurisdiction to another that has lower or no taxes or less onerous regulations. Alternately, it may be intended to keep the money in reserve for a specific purpose.



It also may be done to make the money unavailable for another purpose. That is the intent of a new British law, known as the ring-fencing law, which went into effect at the start of 2019.﻿﻿



The law requires financial institutions to ring-fence their consumer banking activities in order to protect customer bank deposits from potential investment banking losses. The institutions were forced to recreate their banking arms as separate entities, each with its own board.﻿﻿



The intent of the law is to forestall another bank bailout like the one that followed the 2008 financial crisis. The government bailout was forced by the perceived vulnerability of ordinary consumers and their savings to a collapse of the big banking institutions.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿


   Offshore Ring-Fencing  

In the U.S., the term is often used to describe the transfer of assets from one jurisdiction to another, usually offshore, in order to reduce an investor's verifiable income or reduce the investor's tax bill. It also may be used to shield some assets from seizure by debtors.



Ring-fencing assets to reduce taxation or avoid regulation may be legal as long as it stays within the limits set in the laws and regulations of the home country. The limit typically is a certain percentage of the annual net worth of the business or individual, meaning that the dollar amount will vary over time.



Ring-fencing can also describe earmarking assets for a particular purpose. For example, a savings account may be ring-fenced for retirement. A company may ring-fence its pension fund to protect it from being drained for other business expenditures.
What Is Ripple?  

Ripple is a blockchain-based digital payment network and protocol that uses its own cryptocurrency, XRP. Ripple's main focus is as a payment settlement asset exchange and remittance system, similar to the SWIFT system for international money and security transfers used by banks and financial intermediaries dealing across currencies.



The token used for the cryptocurrency is premined and uses the ticker symbol XRP. Ripple is the name of the company and the network, and XRP is the cryptocurrency token. The purpose of XRP is to serve as an intermediate mechanism of exchange between two currencies or networks—as a sort of temporary settlement layer denomination. Ripple was first released in 2012 and was co-founded by Chris Larsen and Jed McCaleb.





Key Takeaways

Ripple is a blockchain-based digital payment network and protocol with its own cryptocurrency, XRP.Rather than use blockchain mining, Ripple uses a consensus mechanism, via a group of bank-owned servers to confirm transactions.Ripple transactions use less energy than Bitcoin, are confirmed in seconds, and cost very little, whereas Bitcoin transactions use more energy, take longer to confirm, and include higher transaction costs.Ripple (XRP) ranks among the most valuable blockchain-based tokens by market capitalization.The Ripple payment system is intended to be used primarily by banks, but individual investors can speculate on the price of XRP.


   Understanding Ripple  

Ripple operates on an open-source and peer-to-peer decentralized platform that allows for a seamless transfer of money in any form, whether it's dollars, yen, euros, or cryptocurrencies. It is a global payments network and counts major banks and financial services institutions among its customers. XRP is used to facilitate quick conversion between different currencies.


  Ripple as a Digital Hawala Network  

To understand how the system works, consider a money transfer structure where the two parties on either end of the transaction use their preferred intermediaries to receive the money. In effect, Ripple functions as a digital hawala service. Hawala is an informal method of transferring money, usually across borders, without any physical money actually moving.



For example, imagine Lawrence needs to send $100 to River, who lives in a different city. Lawrence sends the funds to a local agent, Kate, and provides a secret password that River must correctly answer to receive the funds in their city. Kate alerts River's agent, Asuka, of the transaction details—recipient, funds to be reimbursed, and password. If River gives Asuka the right password, Asuka gives them $100.



However, the money comes from Asuka's account, which means that Kate owes Asuka $100 (which will be settled at a later date). Asuka can either record a journal of all Kate's debt, which Kate would pay on an agreed day, or make countertransactions that would balance the debt. This multi-step transaction requires a network of trust, which Ripple bypasses using a blockchain network.



Any person or business can register and open a gateway, which authorizes the registrant to act as the intermediary for exchanging currencies, maintaining liquidity, and transferring payments on the network.


   Ripple's Digital Currency XRP  

Ripple's digital currency, XRP, acts as a bridge currency to other currencies. It does not discriminate between any fiat/cryptocurrency, which makes it easy for any currency to be exchanged for another. Each currency on the ecosystem has its own gateway—for example, CADBluzelle, BTCbitstamp, and USDsnapswap. If River wanted bitcoins as payment for the services rendered to Lawrence, Lawrence does not necessarily have to be in possession of any bitcoins. He can send the payment to his gateway in Canadian dollars (CAD), and River can receive bitcoins from his gateway. One gateway is not needed to initiate a complete transaction; multiple gateways can be used, forming a chain of trust rippling across the users.



Holding balances with a gateway exposes the user to counterparty risk, which is also present in the traditional banking system. If the gateway does not honor its liability, the user could lose the value of money held at that gateway. Users who don't trust a gateway can, therefore, transact with a trusted gateway that deals with the "untrusted" gateway. This way, the IOU will be transacted through a trusted or creditworthy-certified gateway.


  How Ripple Works  

The Ripple network does not run with a proof-of-work (PoW) system like Bitcoin or a proof-of-stake (PoS) system like Ethereum. Instead, transactions rely on a consensus protocol to validate account balances and transactions on the system. The consensus works to improve the integrity of the system by preventing double-spending.



A Ripple user that initiates a transaction with multiple gateways but attempts to send the same $100 to the gateway systems will have all but the first transaction deleted. Individual distributed nodes decide by consensus which transaction was made first. The confirmations are instant and take roughly five seconds. Because no central authority decides who can set up a node and confirm transactions, the Ripple platform is described as decentralized.



The XRP Ledger keeps track of all IOUs in a given currency for any user or gateway. IOU credits and transaction flows between wallets are publicly available on the XRP ledger. But even though financial transaction history is publicly recorded and made available on a blockchain, the data is not linked to the ID or account of any individual or business. However, the public record of all dealings (i.e., the blockchain) makes the information susceptible to de-anonymization measures.






The Ripple payment system is mainly intended to be used by banks, although individual investors may speculate on the price of XRP.


   Special Considerations  

Ripple improves on some of the drawbacks attributed to traditional banks. Transactions are settled within seconds on the Ripple network (even though the platform handles millions of transactions frequently).



This is unlike banks, which could take days or weeks to complete a wire transfer. The fee to conduct transactions on Ripple is also minimal, with the minimum transaction cost required for a standard transaction set at $0.0002 XRP, compared with the hefty fees charged by banks for conducting cross-border payments.




Is Ripple Better Than Bitcoin?
Ripple transactions use less energy than Bitcoin, are confirmed in seconds, and cost very little, whereas Bitcoin transactions use more energy, take longer to confirm, and include higher transaction costs.




How Does Ripple's Network Function?
Ripple network transactions rely on a consensus protocol to validate account balances and transactions on the system. It does not run with a PoW system like Bitcoin or a PoS system such as Ethereum. Ripple's consensus aims to improve the integrity of the system by preventing double-spending.




How Is Ripple Different from XRP?
Ripple is a global payments network with major banks and financial services providers as its customers. XRP is an open source cryptocurrency developed by Ripple that is used in Ripple products to facilitate quick conversion between different currencies.


   The Bottom Line  

Ripple is a decentralized blockchain designed to provide payment services that are faster than existing solutions for institutions globally using its native cryptocurrency, XRP.



The comments, opinions, and analyses expressed on Investopedia are for informational purposes online. Read our warranty and liability disclaimer for more info. As of the date this article was written, the author does not own XRP.
What Is Ripple?  

Ripple is a blockchain-based digital payment network and protocol that uses its own cryptocurrency, XRP. Ripple's main focus is as a payment settlement asset exchange and remittance system, similar to the SWIFT system for international money and security transfers used by banks and financial intermediaries dealing across currencies.



The token used for the cryptocurrency is premined and uses the ticker symbol XRP. Ripple is the name of the company and the network, and XRP is the cryptocurrency token. The purpose of XRP is to serve as an intermediate mechanism of exchange between two currencies or networks—as a sort of temporary settlement layer denomination. Ripple was first released in 2012 and was co-founded by Chris Larsen and Jed McCaleb.





Key Takeaways

Ripple is a blockchain-based digital payment network and protocol with its own cryptocurrency, XRP.Rather than use blockchain mining, Ripple uses a consensus mechanism, via a group of bank-owned servers to confirm transactions.Ripple transactions use less energy than Bitcoin, are confirmed in seconds, and cost very little, whereas Bitcoin transactions use more energy, take longer to confirm, and include higher transaction costs.Ripple (XRP) ranks among the most valuable blockchain-based tokens by market capitalization.The Ripple payment system is intended to be used primarily by banks, but individual investors can speculate on the price of XRP.


   Understanding Ripple  

Ripple operates on an open-source and peer-to-peer decentralized platform that allows for a seamless transfer of money in any form, whether it's dollars, yen, euros, or cryptocurrencies. It is a global payments network and counts major banks and financial services institutions among its customers. XRP is used to facilitate quick conversion between different currencies.


  Ripple as a Digital Hawala Network  

To understand how the system works, consider a money transfer structure where the two parties on either end of the transaction use their preferred intermediaries to receive the money. In effect, Ripple functions as a digital hawala service. Hawala is an informal method of transferring money, usually across borders, without any physical money actually moving.



For example, imagine Lawrence needs to send $100 to River, who lives in a different city. Lawrence sends the funds to a local agent, Kate, and provides a secret password that River must correctly answer to receive the funds in their city. Kate alerts River's agent, Asuka, of the transaction details—recipient, funds to be reimbursed, and password. If River gives Asuka the right password, Asuka gives them $100.



However, the money comes from Asuka's account, which means that Kate owes Asuka $100 (which will be settled at a later date). Asuka can either record a journal of all Kate's debt, which Kate would pay on an agreed day, or make countertransactions that would balance the debt. This multi-step transaction requires a network of trust, which Ripple bypasses using a blockchain network.



Any person or business can register and open a gateway, which authorizes the registrant to act as the intermediary for exchanging currencies, maintaining liquidity, and transferring payments on the network.


   Ripple's Digital Currency XRP  

Ripple's digital currency, XRP, acts as a bridge currency to other currencies. It does not discriminate between any fiat/cryptocurrency, which makes it easy for any currency to be exchanged for another. Each currency on the ecosystem has its own gateway—for example, CADBluzelle, BTCbitstamp, and USDsnapswap. If River wanted bitcoins as payment for the services rendered to Lawrence, Lawrence does not necessarily have to be in possession of any bitcoins. He can send the payment to his gateway in Canadian dollars (CAD), and River can receive bitcoins from his gateway. One gateway is not needed to initiate a complete transaction; multiple gateways can be used, forming a chain of trust rippling across the users.



Holding balances with a gateway exposes the user to counterparty risk, which is also present in the traditional banking system. If the gateway does not honor its liability, the user could lose the value of money held at that gateway. Users who don't trust a gateway can, therefore, transact with a trusted gateway that deals with the "untrusted" gateway. This way, the IOU will be transacted through a trusted or creditworthy-certified gateway.


  How Ripple Works  

The Ripple network does not run with a proof-of-work (PoW) system like Bitcoin or a proof-of-stake (PoS) system like Ethereum. Instead, transactions rely on a consensus protocol to validate account balances and transactions on the system. The consensus works to improve the integrity of the system by preventing double-spending.



A Ripple user that initiates a transaction with multiple gateways but attempts to send the same $100 to the gateway systems will have all but the first transaction deleted. Individual distributed nodes decide by consensus which transaction was made first. The confirmations are instant and take roughly five seconds. Because no central authority decides who can set up a node and confirm transactions, the Ripple platform is described as decentralized.



The XRP Ledger keeps track of all IOUs in a given currency for any user or gateway. IOU credits and transaction flows between wallets are publicly available on the XRP ledger. But even though financial transaction history is publicly recorded and made available on a blockchain, the data is not linked to the ID or account of any individual or business. However, the public record of all dealings (i.e., the blockchain) makes the information susceptible to de-anonymization measures.






The Ripple payment system is mainly intended to be used by banks, although individual investors may speculate on the price of XRP.


   Special Considerations  

Ripple improves on some of the drawbacks attributed to traditional banks. Transactions are settled within seconds on the Ripple network (even though the platform handles millions of transactions frequently).



This is unlike banks, which could take days or weeks to complete a wire transfer. The fee to conduct transactions on Ripple is also minimal, with the minimum transaction cost required for a standard transaction set at $0.0002 XRP, compared with the hefty fees charged by banks for conducting cross-border payments.




Is Ripple Better Than Bitcoin?
Ripple transactions use less energy than Bitcoin, are confirmed in seconds, and cost very little, whereas Bitcoin transactions use more energy, take longer to confirm, and include higher transaction costs.




How Does Ripple's Network Function?
Ripple network transactions rely on a consensus protocol to validate account balances and transactions on the system. It does not run with a PoW system like Bitcoin or a PoS system such as Ethereum. Ripple's consensus aims to improve the integrity of the system by preventing double-spending.




How Is Ripple Different from XRP?
Ripple is a global payments network with major banks and financial services providers as its customers. XRP is an open source cryptocurrency developed by Ripple that is used in Ripple products to facilitate quick conversion between different currencies.


   The Bottom Line  

Ripple is a decentralized blockchain designed to provide payment services that are faster than existing solutions for institutions globally using its native cryptocurrency, XRP.



The comments, opinions, and analyses expressed on Investopedia are for informational purposes online. Read our warranty and liability disclaimer for more info. As of the date this article was written, the author does not own XRP.
What Is Risk?  

Risk is defined in financial terms as the chance that an outcome or investment's actual gains will differ from an expected outcome or return. Risk includes the possibility of losing some or all of an original investment.



Quantifiably, risk is usually assessed by considering historical behaviors and outcomes. In finance, standard deviation is a common metric associated with risk. Standard deviation provides a measure of the volatility of asset prices in comparison to their historical averages in a given time frame.



Overall, it is possible and prudent to manage investing risks by understanding the basics of risk and how it is measured. Learning the risks that can apply to different scenarios and some of the ways to manage them holistically will help all types of investors and business managers to avoid unnecessary and costly losses.





Key Takeaways

Risk takes on many forms but is broadly categorized as the chance an outcome or investment's actual gain will differ from the expected outcome or return.Risk includes the possibility of losing some or all of an investment.There are several types of risk and several ways to quantify risk for analytical assessments. Risk can be reduced using diversification and hedging strategies.


   The Basics of Risk  

Everyone is exposed to some type of risk every day—whether it’s from driving, walking down the street, investing, capital planning, or something else. An investor’s personality, lifestyle, and age are some of the top factors to consider for individual investment management and risk purposes. Each investor has a unique risk profile that determines their willingness and ability to withstand risk. In general, as investment risks rise, investors expect higher returns to compensate for taking those risks.



A fundamental idea in finance is the relationship between risk and return. The greater the amount of risk an investor is willing to take, the greater the potential return. Risks can come in various ways and investors need to be compensated for taking on additional risk. For example, a U.S. Treasury bond is considered one of the safest investments and when compared to a corporate bond, provides a lower rate of return. A corporation is much more likely to go bankrupt than the U.S. government. Because the default risk of investing in a corporate bond is higher, investors are offered a higher rate of return.



Quantifiably, the risk is usually assessed by considering historical behaviors and outcomes. In finance, standard deviation is a common metric associated with risk. Standard deviation provides a measure of the volatility of a value in comparison to its historical average. A high standard deviation indicates a lot of value volatility and therefore a high degree of risk.



Individuals, financial advisors, and companies can all develop risk management strategies to help manage risks associated with their investments and business activities. Academically, there are several theories, metrics, and strategies that have been identified to measure, analyze, and manage risks. Some of these include standard deviation, beta, Value at Risk (VaR), and the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM).



Measuring and quantifying risk often allow investors, traders, and business managers to hedge some risks away by using various strategies including diversification and derivative positions.


   Riskless Securities  

While it is true that no investment is fully free of all possible risks, certain securities have so little practical risk that they are considered risk-free or riskless.



Riskless securities often form a baseline for analyzing and measuring risk. These types of investments offer an expected rate of return with very little or no risk. Oftentimes, all types of investors will look to these securities for preserving emergency savings or for holding assets that need to be immediately accessible.



Examples of riskless investments and securities include certificates of deposits (CDs), government money market accounts, and U.S. Treasury bills. The 30-day U.S. Treasury bill is generally viewed as the baseline, risk-free security for financial modeling. It is backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, and, given its relatively short maturity date, has minimal interest rate exposure.






While savings accounts and CDs are riskless in the sense that their value cannot go down, bank failures can result in losses. The FDIC only insures up to $250,000 per depositor per bank, so any amount above that limit is exposed to the risk of bank failure.






While U.S. government bonds are often cited as "riskless," investors can lose money if the government defaults on its debt. The U.S. came close to defaulting on its debt in 2011, when a political standoff over the debt ceiling led to a downgrade of its credit rating by Standard & Poor’s. The episode caused significant volatility and uncertainty in financial markets, and reduced economic growth.A looming default in 2023 would likely be worse, given the higher level of overall debt and the more polarized political environment.


   Risk and Time Horizons  

Time horizon and liquidity of investments is often a key factor influencing risk assessment and risk management. If an investor needs funds to be immediately accessible, they are less likely to invest in high risk investments or investments that cannot be immediately liquidated and more likely to place their money in riskless securities.



Time horizons will also be an important factor for individual investment portfolios. Younger investors with longer time horizons to retirement may be willing to invest in higher risk investments with higher potential returns. Older investors would have a different risk tolerance since they will need funds to be more readily available.


   Types of Financial Risk  

Every saving and investment action involves different risks and returns. In general, financial theory classifies investment risks affecting asset values into two categories: systematic risk and unsystematic risk. Broadly speaking, investors are exposed to both systematic and unsystematic risks. 



Systematic risks, also known as market risks, are risks that can affect an entire economic market overall or a large percentage of the total market. Market risk is the risk of losing investments due to factors, such as political risk and macroeconomic risk, that affect the performance of the overall market. Market risk cannot be easily mitigated through portfolio diversification. Other common types of systematic risk can include interest rate risk, inflation risk, currency risk, liquidity risk, country risk, and sociopolitical risk.



Unsystematic risk, also known as specific risk or idiosyncratic risk, is a category of risk that only affects an industry or a particular company. Unsystematic risk is the risk of losing an investment due to company or industry-specific hazard. Examples include a change in management, a product recall, a regulatory change that could drive down company sales, and a new competitor in the marketplace with the potential to take away market share from a company. Investors often use diversification to manage unsystematic risk by investing in a variety of assets.



In addition to the broad systematic and unsystematic risks, there are several specific types of risk, including:


  Business Risk  

Business risk refers to the basic viability of a business—the question of whether a company will be able to make sufficient sales and generate sufficient revenues to cover its operational expenses and turn a profit. While financial risk is concerned with the costs of financing, business risk is concerned with all the other expenses a business must cover to remain operational and functioning. These expenses include salaries, production costs, facility rent, office, and administrative expenses. The level of a company's business risk is influenced by factors such as the cost of goods, profit margins, competition, and the overall level of demand for the products or services that it sells.



Operational risk is a type of business risk that arises from the day-to-day operation of a business and can include risks associated with system failures, human errors, fraud, or other internal processes that might negatively impact a business's financial performance. Operational risks can be managed through effective internal controls, processes, and systems.



Businesses and investments can also be exposed to legal risks stemming from changes in laws, regulations, or legal disputes. Legal and regulatory risks can be managed through compliance programs, monitoring changes in regulations, and seeking legal advice as needed.


  Credit or Default Risk  

Credit risk is the risk that a borrower will be unable to pay the contractual interest or principal on its debt obligations. This type of risk is particularly concerning to investors who hold bonds in their portfolios. Government bonds, especially those issued by the federal government, have the least amount of default risk and, as such, the lowest returns. Corporate bonds, on the other hand, tend to have the highest amount of default risk, but also higher interest rates.



Bonds with a lower chance of default are considered investment grade, while bonds with higher chances are considered high yield or junk bonds. Investors can use bond rating agencies—such as Standard and Poor’s, Fitch and Moody's—to determine which bonds are investment-grade and which are junk.


  Country Risk  

Country risk refers to the risk that a country won't be able to honor its financial commitments. When a country defaults on its obligations, it can harm the performance of all other financial instruments in that country—as well as other countries it has relations with. Country risk applies to stocks, bonds, mutual funds, options, and futures that are issued within a particular country. This type of risk is most often seen in emerging markets or countries that have a severe deficit.


  Foreign-Exchange Risk  

When investing in foreign countries, it’s important to consider the fact that currency exchange rates can change the price of the asset as well. Foreign exchange risk (or exchange rate risk) applies to all financial instruments that are in a currency other than your domestic currency.



As an example, if you live in the U.S. and invest in a Canadian stock in Canadian dollars, even if the share value appreciates, you may lose money if the Canadian dollar depreciates in relation to the U.S. dollar.


  Interest Rate Risk  

Interest rate risk is the risk that an investment's value will change due to a change in the absolute level of interest rates, the spread between two rates, in the shape of the yield curve, or in any other interest rate relationship. This type of risk affects the value of bonds more directly than stocks and is a significant risk to all bondholders. As interest rates rise, bond prices in the secondary market fall—and vice versa.



Reinvestment risk is related to interest rate risk. It is the possibility that an investor may not be able to reinvest the cash flows received from an investment (such as interest or dividends) at the same rate of return as the original investment. Reinvestment risk is particularly relevant for fixed income investments like bonds, where interest rates may change over time. Investors can manage reinvestment risk by laddering their investments, diversifying their portfolio, or considering investments with different maturity dates.


  Political Risk  

Political risk is the risk an investment’s returns could suffer because of political instability or changes in a country. This type of risk can stem from a change in government, legislative bodies, other foreign policy makers, or military control. Also known as geopolitical risk, the risk becomes more of a factor as an investment’s time horizon gets longer.


  Counterparty Risk  

Counterparty risk is the likelihood or probability that one of those involved in a transaction might default on its contractual obligation. Counterparty risk can exist in credit, investment, and trading transactions, especially for those occurring in over-the-counter (OTC) markets. Financial investment products such as stocks, options, bonds, and derivatives carry counterparty risk.


  Liquidity Risk  

Liquidity risk is associated with an investor’s ability to transact their investment for cash. Typically, investors will require some premium for illiquid assets which compensates them for holding securities over time that cannot be easily liquidated.


  Model Risk  

This type of risk arises from the use of financial models to make investment decisions, evaluate risks, or price financial instruments. Model risk can occur if the model is based on incorrect assumptions, data, or methodologies, leading to inaccurate predictions and potentially adverse financial consequences. Model risk can be managed by validating and periodically reviewing financial models, as well as using multiple models to cross-check predictions and outcomes.


   Risk vs. Reward  

The risk-return tradeoff is the balance between the desire for the lowest possible risk and the highest possible returns. In general, low levels of risk are associated with low potential returns and high levels of risk are associated with high potential returns. Each investor must decide how much risk they’re willing and able to accept for a desired return. This will be based on factors such as age, income, investment goals, liquidity needs, time horizon, and personality.



The following chart shows a visual representation of the risk/return tradeoff for investing, where a higher standard deviation means a higher level or risk—as well as a higher potential return.  












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



It’s important to keep in mind that higher risk doesn’t automatically equate to higher returns. The risk-return tradeoff only indicates that higher risk investments have the possibility of higher returns—but there are no guarantees. On the lower-risk side of the spectrum is the risk-free rate of return—the theoretical rate of return of an investment with zero risk. It represents the interest you would expect from an absolutely risk-free investment over a specific period of time. In theory, the risk-free rate of return is the minimum return you would expect for any investment because you wouldn’t accept additional risk unless the potential rate of return is greater than the risk-free rate.


   Risk and Diversification  

The most basic—and effective—strategy for minimizing risk is diversification. Diversification is based heavily on the concepts of correlation and risk. A well-diversified portfolio will consist of different types of securities from diverse industries that have varying degrees of risk and correlation with each other’s returns.



While most investment professionals agree that diversification can’t guarantee against a loss, it is the most important component to helping an investor reach long-range financial goals, while minimizing risk.



There are several ways to plan for and ensure adequate diversification including: 



Spread your portfolio among many different investment vehicles—including cash, stocks, bonds, mutual funds, ETFs and other funds. Look for assets whose returns haven’t historically moved in the same direction and to the same degree. That way, if part of your portfolio is declining, the rest may still be growing.
Stay diversified within each type of investment. Include securities that vary by sector, industry, region, and market capitalization. It’s also a good idea to mix styles too, such as growth, income, and value. The same goes for bonds: consider varying maturities and credit qualities.
Include securities that vary in risk. You're not restricted to picking only blue-chip stocks. In fact, the opposite is true. Picking different investments with different rates of return will ensure that large gains offset losses in other areas.



Keep in mind that portfolio diversification is not a one-time task. Investors and businesses perform regular “check-ups” or rebalancing to make sure their portfolios have a risk level that’s consistent with their financial strategy and goals.




Can portfolio diversification protect against risks?
Portfolio diversification is an effective strategy used to manage unsystematic risks (risks specific to individual companies or industries); however, it cannot protect against systematic risks (risks that affect the entire market or a large portion of it). Systematic risks, such as interest rate risk, inflation risk, and currency risk, cannot be eliminated through diversification alone. However, investors can still mitigate the impact of these risks by considering other strategies like hedging, investing in assets that are less correlated with the systematic risks, or adjusting the investment time horizon.




How does investor psychology impact risk-taking and investment decisions?
Investor psychology plays a significant role in risk-taking and investment decisions. Individual investors' perception of risk, personal experiences, cognitive biases, and emotional reactions can influence their investment choices. For instance, behavioral economics identifies loss aversion, a cognitive bias where people are more sensitive to potential losses than gains, can make investors overly cautious and avoid riskier investments that might offer higher potential returns. Understanding one's own psychological tendencies and biases can help investors make more informed and rational decisions about their risk tolerance and investment strategies.




How do "black swan" events relate to risk management, and how can investors prepare for them?
"Black swan" events are rare, unpredictable, and high-impact occurrences that can have significant consequences on financial markets and investments. Due to their unexpected nature, traditional risk management models and strategies may not adequately account for these events. To prepare for black swan events, investors can consider implementing stress testing, scenario analysis, or other techniques that focus on assessing the portfolio's resilience under extreme market conditions. Additionally, maintaining a well-diversified portfolio, holding adequate cash reserves, and being adaptable to evolving market conditions can help investors better navigate the potential fallout from black swan events.


   The Bottom Line  

We all face risks every day—whether we’re driving to work, surfing a 60-foot wave, investing, or managing a business. In the financial world, risk refers to the chance that an investment’s actual return will differ from what is expected—the possibility that an investment won’t do as well as you’d like, or that you’ll end up losing money.



The most effective way to manage investing risk is through regular risk assessment and diversification. Although diversification won’t ensure gains or guarantee against losses, it does provide the potential to improve returns based on your goals and target level of risk. Finding the right balance between risk and return helps investors and business managers achieve their financial goals through investments that they can be most comfortable with.
What Is a Risk-Adjusted Return?  

A risk-adjusted return is a calculation of the profit or potential profit from an investment that considers the degree of risk that must be accepted to achieve it. The risk is measured in comparison to that of a virtually risk-free investment—usually U.S. Treasuries.



Depending on the method used, the risk calculation is expressed as a number or a rating. Risk-adjusted returns are applied to individual stocks, investment funds, and entire portfolios.





Key Takeaways

A risk-adjusted return measures an investment's return after considering the degree of risk taken to achieve it.There are several methods for evaluating risk-adjusting performance, such as the Sharpe and Treynor ratios, alpha, beta, and standard deviation, with each yielding a slightly different result.In any case, investors calculate risk-adjusted returns to help them determine whether the risk taken is worth the expected reward.


   Understanding Risk-Adjusted Return  

The risk-adjusted return measures the profit your investment has made relative to the amount of risk the investment has represented throughout a period. If two or more investments delivered the same return over a given time, the one with the lowest risk will have a better risk-adjusted return.



Some common risk measures used in investing include alpha, beta, R-squared, standard deviation, and the Sharpe ratio. When comparing two or more potential investments, you should apply the same risk measure to each investment under consideration to get a relative performance perspective.






Different risk measurements give investors very different analytical results, so it is important to be clear on what type of risk-adjusted return is being considered.


   Examples of Risk-Adjusted Return Methods  

Here is a breakdown of the most commonly used measurements.


  Sharpe Ratio  

The Sharpe ratio measures the profit of an investment that exceeds the risk-free rate per unit of standard deviation. It is calculated by taking the return of the investment, subtracting the risk-free rate, and dividing this result by the investment's standard deviation.



All else equal, a higher Sharpe ratio is better. The risk-free rate used is the yield on very low-risk investment, usually the 10-year Treasury bond (T-bond), for the relevant period.



For example, say Mutual Fund A returned 12% over the past year and had a standard deviation of 10%. Mutual Fund B returned 10% with a standard deviation of 7%, and the risk-free rate over the period was 3%. The Sharpe ratios would be calculated as follows:



Mutual Fund A: (12% - 3%) / 10% = 0.9Mutual Fund B: (10% - 3%) / 7% = 1



Even though Mutual Fund A had a higher return, Mutual Fund B had a higher risk-adjusted return, meaning that it gained more per unit of total risk than Mutual Fund A.


  Treynor Ratio  

The Treynor ratio is calculated the same way as the Sharpe ratio but uses the investment's beta in the denominator. As with the Sharpe, a higher Treynor ratio is better.



Using the previous fund example and assuming that each of the funds has a beta of 0.75, the calculations are as follows:



Mutual Fund A: (12% - 3%) / 0.75 = 0.12Mutual Fund B: (10% - 3%) / 0.75 = 0.09



Here, Mutual Fund A has a higher Treynor ratio, meaning the fund earns more return per unit of systematic risk than Fund B.


  Other Risk Adjustment Measures  

Here are some of the other popular risk-adjustments:



Alpha: An investment's return in relation to the return of a benchmark.
Beta: An investment's return in relation to the overall market. The market is set at a beta of one—if the investment has a beta of more than one, it fluctuates more than the overall market. If it is less than one, it varies less than the market.
Standard deviation: The volatility of an investment's returns relative to its average return, with greater standard deviations reflecting wider returns and narrower standard deviations implying more concentrated returns.
R-squared: The percentage of an investment's performance that can be explained by the performance of an index.


   Special Considerations  

Risk avoidance is not always a good thing in investing, so be wary of overreacting to these numbers, especially if the measured timeline is short. In strong markets, a mutual fund with a lower risk than its benchmark can limit the real performance that the investor wants to see.



A fund that entertains more risk than its benchmark may experience better returns. In fact, it is common knowledge that higher-risk mutual funds may accrue greater losses during volatile periods, but they are also likely to outperform their benchmarks over full market cycles. 




What Are the 4 Risk-Adjusted Return Measures?
The Sharpe ratio, alpha, beta, and standard deviation are the most popular ways to measure risk-adjusted returns.




Is Risk-Adjusted Return the Sharpe Ratio?
The Sharpe ratio is one of several ways to measure an asset's risk-adjusted return.




What Is the Risk-Adjusted Return on Real Estate?
The popular measurements can be used to evaluate real-estate risk and returns if you have the information. For the Sharpe ratio, you'd need to know the property's average return and standard deviation. Using the 10-year Treasury rate, you could determine the property's risk-adjusted return.


   The Bottom Line  

Risk-adjusted return metrics are used by analysts to find out how much risk an asset has vs. a known low-risk investment. The 10-year Treasury is usually used as the risk-free rate, and various measurements are used to analyze risk. None of them are better than the other, but some are preferred over others.
What Is Risk-Adjusted Return On Capital (RAROC)?  

Risk-adjusted return on capital (RAROC) is a modified return on investment (ROI) figure that takes elements of risk into account. In financial analysis, projects and investments with greater risk levels must be evaluated differently; RAROC thus accounts for changes in an investment’s profile by discounting risky cash flows against less-risky cash flows.





Key Takeaways

Risk-adjusted return on capital (RAROC) is a risk-adjusted measure of the return on investment.It does this by accounting for any expected losses and income generated by capital, with the assumption that riskier projects should be accompanied by higher expected returnsRAROC is most often used by banks and other financial sector companies.


   The Formula For RAROC Is  

﻿















R


A


R


O


C


=




r


−


e


−


e


l


+


i


f


c




c


















where:
















RAROC


=


Risk-adjusted return on capital
















r


=


Revenue
















e


=


Expenses
















e


l


=


Expected loss which equals average loss

















e


l


=



expected over a specified period of time
















i


f


c


=


Income from capital which equals

















i


f


c


=



(capital charges)


×



(the risk-free rate)









\begin{aligned}&RAROC=\frac{r-e-el+ifc}{c}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{RAROC}=\text{Risk-adjusted return on capital}\\&r=\text{Revenue}\\&e=\text{Expenses}\\&el=\text{Expected loss which equals average loss}\\&\phantom{el=}\text{expected over a specified period of time}\\&ifc=\text{Income from capital which equals}\\&\phantom{ifc=}\text{(capital charges)}\times{\text{(the risk-free rate)}}\\&c=\text{Capital}\end{aligned}


​RAROC=cr−e−el+ifc​where:RAROC=Risk-adjusted return on capitalr=Revenuee=Expensesel=Expected loss which equals average lossel=expected over a specified period of timeifc=Income from capital which equalsifc=(capital charges)×(the risk-free rate)​﻿


   Understanding Risk-Adjusted Return On Capital  

Risk-adjusted return on capital is a useful tool in assessing potential acquisitions. The general underlying assumption of RAROC is investments or projects with higher levels of risk offer substantially higher returns. Companies that need to compare two or more different projects or investments must keep this in mind.


   RAROC and Bankers Trust  

RAROC is also referred to as a profitability-measurement framework, based on risk, that allows analysts to examine a company’s financial performance and establish a steady view of profitability across business sectors and industries.



The RAROC metric was developed during the late 1970s by Bankers Trust, more specifically Dan Borge, its principal designer. The tool grew in popularity through the 1980s, serving as a newly developed adjustment to simple return on capital (ROC). A commercial bank at the time, Bankers Trust adopted a business model similar to that of an investment bank. Bankers Trust had unloaded its retail lending and deposit businesses and dealt actively in exempt securities, with a derivative business beginning to take root.



These wholesale activities facilitated the development of the RAROC model. Nationwide publicity led a number of other banks to develop their own RAROC systems. The banks gave their systems different names, essentially lingo used to indicate the same type of metric. Other methods include return on risk-adjusted capital (RORAC) and risk-adjusted return on risk-adjusted capital (RARORAC). The most commonly used is still RAROC. Non-banking firms utilize RAROC as a metric for the effect that operational, market and credit risk have on finances.


   Return on Risk-Adjusted Capital  

Not to be confused with RAROC, the return on risk-adjusted capital (RORAC) is used in financial analysis to calculate a rate of return, where projects and investments with higher levels of risk are evaluated based on the amount of capital at risk. More and more, companies are using RORAC as a greater amount of emphasis is placed on risk management throughout a company. The calculation for this metric is similar to RAROC, with the major difference being capital is adjusted for risk with RAROC instead of the rate of return.
What Is Risk Analysis?  

The term risk analysis refers to the assessment process that identifies the potential for any adverse events that may negatively affect organizations and the environment. Risk analysis is commonly performed by corporations (banks, construction groups, health care, etc.), governments, and nonprofits. Conducting a risk analysis can help organizations determine whether they should undertake a project or approve a financial application, and what actions they may need to take to protect their interests. This type of analysis facilitates a balance between risks and risk reduction. Risk analysts often work in with forecasting professionals to minimize future negative unforeseen effects.





Key Takeaways

Risk analysis seeks to identify, measure, and mitigate various risk exposures or hazards facing a business, investment, or project.Quantitative risk analysis uses mathematical models and simulations to assign numerical values to risk.Qualitative risk analysis relies on a person's subjective judgment to build a theoretical model of risk for a given scenario.Risk analysis can include risk benefit, needs assessment, or root cause analysis.Risk analysis entails identifying risk, defining uncertainty, completing analysis models, and implementing solutions.


   Understanding Risk Analysis  

Risk assessment enables corporations, governments, and investors to assess the probability that an adverse event might negatively impact a business, economy, project, or investment.  Assessing risk is essential for determining how worthwhile a specific project or investment is and the best process(es) to mitigate those risks. Risk analysis provides different approaches that can be used to assess the risk and reward tradeoff of a potential investment opportunity.



A risk analyst starts by identifying what could potentially go wrong. These negatives must be weighed against a probability metric that measures the likelihood of the event occurring.



Finally, risk analysis attempts to estimate the extent of the impact that will be made if the event happens. Many risks that are identified, such as market risk, credit risk, currency risk, and so on, can be reduced through hedging or by purchasing insurance.



Almost all sorts of large businesses require a minimum sort of risk analysis. For example, commercial banks need to properly hedge foreign exchange exposure of overseas loans, while large department stores must factor in the possibility of reduced revenues due to a global recession. It is important to know that risk analysis allows professionals to identify and mitigate risks, but not avoid them completely.


   Types of Risk Analysis  
  Risk-Benefits  

Many people are aware of a cost-benefit analysis. In this type of analysis, an analyst compares the benefits a company receives to the financial and non-financial expenses related to the benefits. The potential benefits may cause other, new types of potential expenses to occur. In a similar manner, a risk-benefit analysis compares potential benefits with associated potential risks. Benefits may be ranked and evaluated based on their likelihood of success or the projected impact the benefits may have.


  Needs Assessment  

A needs risk analysis is an analysis of the current state of a company. Often, a company will undergo a needs assessment to better understand a need or gap that is already known. Alternatively, a needs assessment may be done if management is not aware of gaps or deficiencies. This analysis lets the company know where they need to spending more resources in.


  Business Impact Analysis  

In many cases, a business may see a potential risk looming and wants to know how the situation may impact the business. For example, consider the probability of a concrete worker strike to a real estate developer. The real estate developer may perform a business impact analysis to understand how each additional day of the delay may impact their operations.


  Root Cause Analysis  

Opposite of a needs analysis, a root cause analysis is performed because something is happening that shouldn't be. This type of risk analysis strives to identify and eliminate processes that cause issues. Whereas other types of risk analysis often forecast what needs to be done or what could be getting done, a root cause analysis aims to identify the impact of things that have already happened or continue to happen.


   How to Perform a Risk Analysis  

Though there are different types of risk analysis, many have overlapping steps and objectives. Each company may also choose to add or change the steps below, but these six steps outline the most common process of performing a risk analysis.


  Step #1: Identify Risks  

The first step in many types of risk analysis to is to make a list of potential risks you may encounter. These may be internal threats that arise from within a company, though most risks will be external that occur from outside forces. It is important to incorporate many different members of a company for this brainstorming session as different departments may have different perspectives and inputs.



A company may have already addressed the major risks of the company through a SWOT analysis. Although a SWOT analysis may prove to be a launching point for further discussion, risk analysis often addresses a specific question while SWOT analysis are often broader. Some risks may be listed on both, but a risk analysis should be more specific when trying to address a specific problem.


  Step #2: Identify Uncertainty  

The primary concern of risk analysis is to identify troublesome areas for a company. Most often, the riskiest aspects may be the areas that are undefined. Therefore, a critical aspect of risk analysis is to understand how each potential risk has uncertainty and to quantify the range of risk that uncertainty may hold.



Consider the example of a product recall of defective products after they have been shipped. A company may not know how many units were defective, so it may project different scenarios where either a partial or full product recall is performed. The company may also run various scenarios on how to resolve the issue with customers (i.e. a low, medium, or high engagement solution.


  Step #3: Estimate Impact  

Most often, the goal of a risk analysis is to better understand how risk will financially impact a company. This is usually calculated as the risk value, which is the probability of an event happening multiplied by the cost of the event.



For example, in the example above, the company may assess that there is a 1% chance a product defection occurs. If the event were to occur, it would cost the company $100 million. In this example, the risk value of the defective product would be assigned $1 million.



The important piece to remember here is management's ability to prioritize avoiding potentially devastating results. For example, if the company above only yielded $40 million of sales each year, a single defect product that could ruin brand image and customer trust may put the company out of business. Even though this example led to a risk value of only $1 million, the company may choose to prioritize addressing this due to the higher stakes nature of the risk.


  Step #4: Build Analysis Model(s)  

The inputs from above are often fed into an analysis model. The analysis model will take all available pieces of data and information, and the model will attempt to yield different outcomes, probabilities, and financial projections of what may occur. In more advanced situations, scenario analysis or simulations can determine an average outcome value that can be used to quantify the average instance of an event occurring.


  Step #5: Analyze Results  

With the model run and the data available to be reviewed, it's time to analyze the results. Management often takes the information and determines the best course of action by comparing the likelihood of risk, projected financial impact, and model simulations. Management may also request to see different scenarios run for different risks based on different variables or inputs.


  Step #6: Implement Solutions  

After management has digested the information, it is time to put a plan in action. Sometimes, the plan is to do nothing; in risk acceptance strategies, a company has decided it will not change course as it makes most financial sense to simply live with the risk of something happening and dealing with it after it occurs. In other cases, management may want to reduce or eliminate the risk.






Implementing solutions does not necessarily mean risk avoidance. A company can decide to simply live with the current risks it faces. Other potential solutions may include buying insurance, divesting from a product, restricting trade in certain geographical regions, or sharing operational risk with a partner company.


   Qualitative vs. Quantitative Risk Analysis  
  Quantitative Risk Analysis  

Under quantitative risk analysis, a risk model is built using simulation or deterministic statistics to assign numerical values to risk. Inputs that are mostly assumptions and random variables are fed into a risk model.



For any given range of input, the model generates a range of output or outcome. The model's output is analyzed using graphs, scenario analysis, and/or sensitivity analysis by risk managers to make decisions to mitigate and deal with the risks.



A Monte Carlo simulation can be used to generate a range of possible outcomes of a decision made or action taken. The simulation is a quantitative technique that calculates results for the random input variables repeatedly, using a different set of input values each time. The resulting outcome from each input is recorded, and the final result of the model is a probability distribution of all possible outcomes.



The outcomes can be summarized on a distribution graph showing some measures of central tendency such as the mean and median, and assessing the variability of the data through standard deviation and variance. The outcomes can also be assessed using risk management tools such as scenario analysis and sensitivity tables. A scenario analysis shows the best, middle, and worst outcome of any event. Separating the different outcomes from best to worst provides a reasonable spread of insight for a risk manager.



For example, an American company that operates on a global scale might want to know how its bottom line would fare if the exchange rate of select countries strengthens. A sensitivity table shows how outcomes vary when one or more random variables or assumptions are changed.



Elsewhere, a portfolio manager might use a sensitivity table to assess how changes to the different values of each security in a portfolio will impact the variance of the portfolio. Other types of risk management tools include decision trees and break-even analysis.


  Qualitative Risk Analysis  

Qualitative risk analysis is an analytical method that does not identify and evaluate risks with numerical and quantitative ratings. Qualitative analysis involves a written definition of the uncertainties, an evaluation of the extent of the impact (if the risk ensues), and countermeasure plans in the case of a negative event occurring.



Examples of qualitative risk tools include SWOT analysis, cause and effect diagrams, decision matrix, game theory, etc. A firm that wants to measure the impact of a security breach on its servers may use a qualitative risk technique to help prepare it for any lost income that may occur from a data breach.






While most investors are concerned about downside risk, mathematically, the risk is the variance both to the downside and the upside.


   Example of Risk Analysis: Value at Risk (VaR)  

Value at risk (VaR) is a statistic that measures and quantifies the level of financial risk within a firm, portfolio, or position over a specific time frame. This metric is most commonly used by investment and commercial banks to determine the extent and occurrence ratio of potential losses in their institutional portfolios. Risk managers use VaR to measure and control the level of risk exposure. One can apply VaR calculations to specific positions or whole portfolios or to measure firm-wide risk exposure.



VaR is calculated by shifting historical returns from worst to best with the assumption that returns will be repeated, especially where it concerns risk. As a historical example, let's look at the Nasdaq 100 ETF, which trades under the symbol QQQ (sometimes called the "cubes") and which started trading in March of 1999.



In January 2000, the ETF returned 12.4%. But there are points at which the ETF resulted in losses as well. At its worst, the ETF ran daily losses of 4% to 8%. This period is referred to as the ETF's worst 5%. Based on these historic returns, we can assume with 95% certainty that the ETF's largest losses won't go beyond 4%. So if we invest $100, we can say with 95% certainty that our losses won't go beyond $4.



One important thing to keep in mind is that VaR doesn't provide analysts with absolute certainty. Instead, it's an estimate based on probabilities. The probability gets higher if you consider the higher returns, and only consider the worst 1% of the returns. The Nasdaq 100 ETF's losses of 7% to 8% represent the worst 1% of its performance. We can thus assume with 99% certainty that our worst return won't lose us $7 on our investment. We can also say with 99% certainty that a $100 investment will only lose us a maximum of $7.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Risk Analysis  
  Pros of Risk Analysis  

Risk analysis allows companies to make informed decisions and plan for contingencies before bad things happen. Not all risks may materialize, but it is important for a company to understand what may occur so it can at least choose to make plans ahead of time to avoid potential losses.



Risk analysis also helps quantify risk, as management may not know the financial impact of something happening. In some cases, the information may help companies avoid unprofitable projects. In other cases, the information may help put plans in motion that reduce the likelihood of something happen that would have caused financial stress on a company.



Risk analysis may detect early warning signs of potentially catastrophic events. For example, risk analysis may identify that customer information is not being adequately secured. In this example, risk analysis can lead to better processes, stronger documentation, more robust internal controls, and risk mitigation.


  Cons of Risk Analysis  

Risk is a probabilistic measure and so can never tell you for sure what your precise risk exposure is at a given time, only what the distribution of possible losses is likely to be if and when they occur. There are also no standard methods for calculating and analyzing risk, and even VaR can have several different ways of approaching the task. Risk is often assumed to occur using normal distribution probabilities, which in reality rarely occur and cannot account for extreme or "black swan" events.



The financial crisis of 2008, for example, exposed these problems as relatively benign VaR calculations that greatly understated the potential occurrence of risk events posed by portfolios of subprime mortgages.



Risk magnitude was also underestimated, which resulted in extreme leverage ratios within subprime portfolios. As a result, the underestimations of occurrence and risk magnitude left institutions unable to cover billions of dollars in losses as subprime mortgage values collapsed.




Risk Analysis

Pros

May aid in minimizing losses due to management preemptively forming a risk plan
May allow management to quantify risks and assign dollars to future events
May protect company resources, produce better processes, and mitigate overall risk



Cons

Relies heavily on estimates, so it may be difficult to perform for certain risks
Can not predict unpredictable, black swan events
May underestimate risk magnitude or occurence, leading to overconfident operations







What Is Meant by Risk Analysis?
Risk analysis is the process of identifying and analyzing potential future events that may adversely impact a company. A company performs risk analysis to better understand what may occur, the financial implications of that event occurring, and what steps it can take to mitigate or eliminate that risk.




What Are the Main Components of a Risk Analysis?
Risk analysis is sometimes broken into three components. First, risk assessment is the process of identifying what risks are present. Second, risk management is the procedures in place to minimize the damage done by risk. Third, risk communication is the company-wide approach to acknowledging and addressing risk. These three main components work in tandem to identify, mitigate, and communicate risk.




Why Is Risk Analysis Important?
Sometimes, risk analysis is important because it guides company decision-making. Consider the example of a company considering whether to move forward with a project. The decision may be as simple as identifying, quantifying, and analyzing the risk of the project.Risk analysis is also important because it can help safeguard company assets. Whether it be proprietary data, physical goods, or the well-being of employees, risk is present everywhere. Companies must be mindful of where it most likely to occur as well as where it is most likely to have strong, negative implications.


   The Bottom Line  

Risk analysis is the process of identifying risk, understanding uncertainty, quantifying the uncertainty, running models, analyzing results, and devising a plan. Risk analysis may be qualitative or quantitative, and there are different types of risk analysis for various situations.
What Is Risk Assessment?  

Risk assessment is a general term used across many industries to determine the likelihood of loss on an asset, loan, or investment. Assessing risk is essential for determining how worthwhile a specific investment is and the best process(es) to mitigate risk. It presents the upside reward compared to the risk profile. Risk assessment is important in order to determine the rate of return an investor would need to earn to deem an investment worth the potential risk.





Key Takeaways

Risk assessment is the process of analyzing potential events that may result in the loss of an asset, loan, or investment.Companies, governments, and investors conduct risk assessments before embarking on a new project, business, or investment.Quantitative risk analysis uses mathematical models and simulations to assign numerical values to risk.Qualitative risk analysis relies on a person's subjective judgment to build a theoretical model of risk for a given scenario.While a stock's past volatility does not guarantee future returns, in general, an investment with high volatility indicates a riskier investment.


   Understanding Risk Assessment  

Risk assessment enables corporations, governments, and investors to assess the probability that an adverse event might negatively impact a business, economy, project, or investment. Risk analysis provides different approaches investors can use to assess the risk of a potential investment opportunity. Two types of risk analysis an investor can apply when evaluating an investment are quantitative analysis and qualitative analysis.


  Quantitative Analysis  

A quantitative analysis of risk focuses on building risk models and simulations that enable the user to assign numerical values to risk. An example of quantitative risk analysis would be a Monte Carlo simulation. This method—which can be used in a variety of fields such as finance, engineering, and science—runs a number of variables through a mathematical model to discover the different possible outcomes.


  Qualitative Analysis  

A qualitative analysis of risk is an analytical method that does not rely on numerical or mathematical analysis. Instead, it uses a person's subjective judgment and experience to build a theoretical model of risk for a given scenario. A qualitative analysis of a company might include an assessment of the company's management, the relationship it has with its vendors, and the public's perception of the company.






Investors frequently use qualitative and quantitative analysis in conjunction with one another to provide a clearer picture of a company's potential as an investment.


  Other Risk Assessment Methods  

Another example of a formal risk assessment technique includes conditional value at risk (CVaR), which portfolio managers use to reduce the likelihood of incurring large losses. Mortgage lenders use loan-to-value ratios to evaluate the risk of lending funds. Lenders also use credit analysis to determine the creditworthiness of the borrower.


   Risk Assessments for Investments  

Both institutional and individual investments have expected amounts of risk. This is especially true of non-guaranteed investments, such as stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs). 



Standard deviation is a measure applied to the annual rate of return of an investment to measure the investment's volatility. In most cases, an investment with high volatility indicates a riskier investment. When deciding between several stocks, investors will often compare the standard deviation of each stock before making an investment decision.



However, it's important to note that a stock's past volatility (or lack thereof) does not predict future returns. Investments that previously experienced low volatility can experience sharp fluctuations, particularly during rapidly changing market conditions.


   Risk Assessments for Lending  

Lenders for personal loans, lines of credit, and mortgages also conduct risk assessments, known as credit checks. For example, it is common that lenders will not approve borrowers who have credit scores below 600 because lower scores are indicative of poor credit practices. A lender's credit analysis of a borrower may consider other factors, such as available assets, collateral, income, or cash on hand.


   Risk Assessments for Business  

Business risks are vast and vary across industries. Such risks include new competitors entering the market; employee theft; data breaches; product recalls; operational, strategic and financial risks; and natural disaster risks.



Every business should have a risk management process in place to assess its current risk levels and enforce procedures to mitigate the worst possible risks. An effective risk management strategy seeks to find a balance between protecting the company from potential risks without hindering growth. Investors prefer to invest in companies that have a history of good risk management.
What Is Risk Averse?  

Risk aversion is the tendency to avoid risk. The term risk-averse describes the investor who chooses the preservation of capital over the potential for a higher-than-average return. In investing, risk equals price volatility. A volatile investment can make you rich or devour your savings. A conservative investment will grow slowly and steadily over time.



Low-risk means more stability. A low-risk investment guarantees a reasonable if unspectacular return, with a near-zero chance that any of the original investment will be lost. Generally, the return on a low-risk investment will match, or slightly exceed, the level of inflation over time. A high-risk investment may gain or lose a bundle of money.



Risk averse can be contrasted with risk seeking.





Key Takeaways

Risk aversion is the tendency to avoid risk and have a low risk tolerance.Risk-averse investors prioritize the safety of principal over the possibility of a higher return on their money.They prefer liquid investments. That is, their money can be accessed when needed, regardless of market conditions at the moment.Risk-averse investors generally favor municipal and corporate bonds, CDs, and savings accounts.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Risk Averse  

The term risk-neutral describes the attitude of an individual who evaluates investment alternatives by focusing solely on potential gains regardless of the risk. That may seem counter-intuitive—to evaluate reward without considering risk seems inherently risky.



Nonetheless, offered two investment opportunities, the risk-neutral investor looks only at the potential gains of each investment and ignores the potential downside risk. The risk-averse investor will pass up the opportunity for a large gain in favor of safety.


  Risk-Averse Investment Choices  

Risk-averse investors typically invest their money in savings accounts, certificates of deposit (CDs), municipal and corporate bonds, and dividend growth stocks. All of the above, except for municipal and corporate bonds and dividend growth stocks, virtually guarantee that the amount invested will still be there whenever the investor chooses to cash it in.



Dividend growth stocks, like any stock shares, move up or down in value. However, they are known for two major attributes: They are shares of mature companies with proven track records and a steady flow of income, and they regularly pay their investors a dividend. This dividend can be paid to the investor as an income supplement or reinvested in the company's stock to add to the account's growth over time.


  Risk-Averse Attributes  

Risk-averse investors also are known as conservative investors. They are, by nature or by circumstances, unwilling to accept volatility in their investment portfolios. They want their investments to be highly liquid. That is, that money must be there in full when they're ready to make a withdrawal. No waiting for the markets to swing up again.



The greatest number of risk-averse investors can be found among older investors and retirees. They may have spent decades building a nest egg. Now that they are using it, or planning on using it soon, they are unwilling to risk losses.


   Risk-Averse Investment Products  
  Savings Accounts  

High-yield savings account from a bank or credit union provides a stable return with virtually no investment risk. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) and the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA), insure funds held in these savings accounts up to generous limits.



The term "high-yield" is relative, however. The return on the money should meet or slightly exceed the level of inflation.


  Certificates of Deposit (CDs)  

Risk-averse investors who don’t need to access their money immediately could place it in a certificate of deposit. CDs typically pay slightly more than savings accounts but require the investor to deposit the money for a longer period of time. Early withdrawals are possible but come with penalties that may erase any income from the investment or even bite into the principal.



A key risk faced by investors in a CD is reinvestment risk. This is when interest rates fall and when the CD matures, the investor's only option for a CD is at lower rates than before. There can also be bank failure risk if the value of the CD is greater than $250,000.



CDs are particularly useful for risk-averse investors who want to diversify the cash portion of their portfolios. That is, they might deposit some of their cash in a savings account for immediate access, and the rest in a longer-term account that earns a better return.


  Money Market Funds  

A money market fund is a type of mutual fund that invests in high-quality, short-term debt instruments, cash, and cash equivalents. These funds are very low-risk and are structured so that each fund share is always worth $1.00. Because they are conservative, they tend to pay relatively low rates of interest to investors.


  Bonds  

Treasury securities, or the debt issued by the U.S. federal government, are considered to be the safest of all securities. Investors can access Treasuries via mutual funds or ETFs, or directly through the government's TreasuryDirect website.



State and local governments as well as corporations also routinely raise money by issuing bonds. These debt instruments pay a steady interest income stream to their investors. Bonds also tend to offer lower risk than stocks. Note that bonds do come with risks—Russia defaulted on some of its debts during a financial crisis in 1998. The global financial crisis of 2008-2009 was partially caused by the collapse of bonds that were backed by mortgages made to subprime borrowers.



Notably, the agencies tasked with rating those bonds should have assigned them ratings that reflected the risks of the investments. They were "junk bonds" marketed as safe bonds. Risk-averse investors buy bonds issued by stable governments and healthy corporations. Their bonds get the highest AAA rating.



In the worst-case bankruptcy scenario, bondholders have first dibs on repayment from the proceeds of liquidation. Municipal bonds have one edge over corporate bonds. They are generally exempt from federal and state taxes, which enhances the investor's total return.


  Dividend Growth Stocks  

Dividend growth stocks can appeal to risk-averse investors because their predictable dividend payments help offset losses even during a downturn in the stock's price. In any case, companies that increase their annual dividends each year typically don’t show the same volatility as stocks purchased for capital appreciation.



Many of these are stocks in so-called defensive sectors. That is, the companies are steady earners that aren't as severely affected by an overall downturn in the economy. Examples are companies in the utilities business and companies that sell consumer staples.



Investors generally have the option of reinvesting the dividends to buy more shares of the stock or taking immediate payment of the dividend.


  Permanent Life Insurance  

Permanent life insurance products like whole life and universal life come with cash accumulation features, tax advantages, and living benefits that make them attractive for risk averse investors. Cash value in a life insurance policy cannot ever lose value and grows over time. Policy owners can withdraw or borrow against that cash value at any time (but this may reduce the policy's death benefit amount).


   Risk Averse Investment Strategies  

In addition to individual assets or asset classes that cater to risk averse investors, there are also a number of risk-averse investment strategies that can be employed to minimize losses.



One way is through diversification of your portfolio. Diversification means including assets and asset classes that are not highly correlated with one another. This way you are not putting all of your eggs into one basket, and if some securities fall in a given day, others may rise to offset those individual losses. Mathematically, diversification allows you to maximize your expected return while minimizing your overall portfolio risk.



Income investing is another strategy that focuses on holding bonds and other fixed-income securities that generate regular cash flows, as opposed to seeking capital gains. Investment income is especially useful for retirees who no longer have employment income and cannot afford to experience losses in the markets. Income investing does come with certain other risks such as due to inflation or negative credit events. Bond and CD laddering along with inflation-protected securities can help lower your overall fixed income portfolio risk.






Saving is very low risk, but it is not investing. Investing means that your money is inherently at-risk, whether you are buying a stock or lending money in the form of a bond.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Being Risk Averse  

Exhibiting risk aversion means to shy away from risk, and in terms of investing means avoiding risky securities. Risk averse individuals should seek out investments and strategies that fit this low risk tolerance. As such, one advantage is that the risk of losses are minimized. Investing in low-risk products like fixed-income securities can also mean guaranteed cash flows and constant positive returns over time.



However, with low risk comes low expected return. In fact, the risk-return tradeoff does not favor a risk averse investor who shies away from stocks and other risky assets. Such risk averse investors will tend to enjoy lower total returns, especially over long time horizons. Risk aversion can also lead people to irrationally avoid otherwise good opportunities and may stay away from the markets entirely, putting them at a disadvantage when saving for things like retirement. Moreover, money kept idle in savings or "under the mattress" will lose buying power over time as it is eroded by inflation.




Pros and Cons of Being Risk Averse

Pros

Minimizes risk of losses
Can generate steady income
Guaranteed cash flows



Cons

Much lower expected returns, especially over time
Missed opportunities (opportunity cost)
Inflation erodes buying power of savings







Which Types of People Are More Risk Averse?
Research shows that risk aversion varies among people. In general the older you get, the lower your risk tolerance is, especially as investment time horizons for things like retirement draw near. On average, lower-income individuals and women also tend to be more risk averse than men, all else equal.




Is It Good to Be Risk Averse?
Being risk averse is a double-edged sword. On the one hand, you greatly lower your chances of losses, but you also can miss good opportunities and greater returns on riskier investments.




How Can I Tell If I Am a Risk Averse Investor?
You can gauge your risk tolerance for investing by taking any number of risk profiling questionnaires available online. When you sign up for a brokerage account or financial advising relationship, you may also be required to take such an evaluation.




Is Risk Aversion the Same As Loss Averson?
No. Risk aversion is one's general attitude toward avoiding risk. Loss aversion is instead the asymmetric propensity to feel the pain of a loss more than the pleasure from an equivalent gain (e.g. losing $100 feels usually worse than gaining $100 feels good). Being risk averse can be completely rational given one's personal situation. Loss aversion, however, is an irrational tendency identified by behavioral economics.


   The Bottom Line  

Risk averse investors tend to favor capital preservation over capital gains and seek out more conservative investments than more risk-seeking individuals. Such investments may include savings products, CDs, highly-rated bonds, and blue-chip stocks. Being risk averse reduces one's chance of experiencing losses, but also comes with opportunity costs, missing out on good opportunities and sacrificing greater expected returns earned elsewhere.
What Is a Risk-Based Capital Requirement?  

Risk-based capital requirement refers to a rule that establishes minimum regulatory capital for financial institutions. Risk-based capital requirements exist to protect financial firms, their investors, their clients, and the economy as a whole. These requirements ensure that each financial institution has enough capital on hand to sustain operating losses while maintaining a safe and efficient market.





Key Takeaways

Risk-based capital requirements are minimum capital requirements for banks set by regulators.There is a permanent floor for these requirements—8% for total risk-based capital (tier 2) and 4% for tier 1 risk-based capital.Tier 1 capital includes common stock, reserves, retained earnings, and certain preferred stock.Risk-based capital requirements act as a cushion to protect a company from insolvency.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Risk-Based Capital Requirement  

Risk-based capital requirements are now subject to a permanent floor, as per a rule adopted in June 2011 by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). In addition to requiring a permanent floor, the rule also provides some flexibility in risk calculation for certain low-risk assets.



The Collins Amendment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act imposes minimum risk-based capital requirements for insured depository institutions, depository institutions, holding firms, and non-bank financial companies that are supervised by the Federal Reserve.



Under the Dodd-Frank rules, each bank is required to have a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% and a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5%. A bank is considered "well-capitalized" if it has a tier 1 ratio of 8% or greater and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, and a tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%.


   Special Considerations  

Typically, tier 1 capital includes a financial institution's common stock, disclosed reserves, retained earnings, and certain types of preferred stock. Total capital includes tier 1 and tier 2 capital and is the difference between a bank's assets and liabilities. However, there are nuances within both of these categories.



To set guidelines on how banks should calculate their capital, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which operates through the Bank for International Settlements, publishes the Basel Accords. Basel I was introduced in 1988, followed by Basel II in 2004. Basel III was developed in response to deficits in financial regulation that appeared in the late 2000s financial crisis. These guidelines are meant to help assess a bank's credit risk related to its balance sheet assets and off-balance sheet exposure.


   Risk-Based Capital vs. Fixed-Capital Standards  

Both risk-based capital and fixed-capital standards act as a cushion to protect a company from insolvency. However, fixed-capital standards require all companies to have the same amount of money in their reserves, and in contrast, risk-based capital varies the amount of capital a company must hold based on its level of risk.



The insurance industry began using risk-based capital instead of fixed-capital standards in the 1990s after a string of insurance companies became insolvent in the 1980s and 1990s. For example, in the 1980s, under the fixed-capital standards, two insurers of the same size in the same state were generally required to hold the same amount of capital in reserve, but after the 1990s, those insurers faced different requirements based on their insurance niche and their unique level of risk.
What Is Risk Control?  

Risk control is the set of methods by which firms evaluate potential losses and take action to reduce or eliminate such threats. It is a technique that utilizes findings from risk assessments, which involve identifying potential risk factors in a company's operations, such as technical and non-technical aspects of the business, financial policies and other issues that may affect the well-being of the firm.



Risk control also implements proactive changes to reduce risk in these areas. Risk control thus helps companies limit loss. Risk control is a key component of a company's enterprise risk management (ERM) protocol.





Key Takeaways

Risk control is the set of methods by which firms evaluate potential losses and take action to reduce or eliminate such threats. It is a technique that utilizes findings from risk assessments.The goal is to identify and reduce potential risk factors in a company's operations, such as technical and non-technical aspects of the business, financial policies and other issues that may affect the well-being of the firm.Risk control methods include avoidance, loss prevention, loss reduction, separation, duplication, and diversification.


   How Risk Control Works  

Modern businesses face a diverse collection of obstacles, competitors, and potential dangers. Risk control is a plan-based business strategy that aims to identify, assess, and prepare for any dangers, hazards, and other potentials for disaster—both physical and figurative—that may interfere with an organization's operations and objectives. The core concepts of risk control include:



Avoidance is the best method of loss control. For example, after discovering that a chemical used in manufacturing a company’s goods is dangerous for the workers, a factory owner finds a safe substitute chemical to protect the workers’ health. Avoidance, however, is not always possible.
Loss prevention accepts a risk but attempts to minimize the loss rather than eliminate it. For example, inventory stored in a warehouse is susceptible to theft. Since there is no way to avoid it, a loss prevention program is put in place. The program includes patrolling security guards, video cameras and secured storage facilities. Insurance is another example of risk prevention that is outsourced to a third party by contract.
Loss reduction accepts the risk and seeks to limit losses when a threat occurs. For example, a company storing flammable material in a warehouse installs state-of-the-art water sprinklers for minimizing damage in case of fire.
Separation involves dispersing key assets so that catastrophic events at one location affect the business only at that location. If all assets were in the same place, the business would face more serious issues. For example, a company utilizes a geographically diverse workforce so that production may continue when issues arise at one warehouse.
Duplication involves creating a backup plan, often by using technology. For example, because information system server failure would stop a company’s operations, a backup server is readily available in case the primary server fails.
Diversification allocates business resources for creating multiple lines of business offering a variety of products or services in different industries. A significant revenue loss from one line will not result in irreparable harm to the company’s bottom line. For example, in addition to serving food, a restaurant has grocery stores carry its line of salad dressings, marinades, and sauces.



No one risk control technique will be a golden bullet to keep a company free from potential harm. In practice, these techniques are used in tandem with others to varying degrees and will change as the corporation grows, as the economy changes, and as the competitive landscape shifts.


   Utilizing a Risk and Control Matrix (RACM) for Effective Risk Management  

A Risk and Control Matrix (RACM) is a valuable tool used by organizations to better understand and optimize their risk profiles. It is a structured approach that helps companies identify, assess, and manage risks by mapping the relationships between potential risks and the corresponding control measures implemented to mitigate them. The RACM allows organizations to visualize and evaluate the effectiveness of their risk control strategies and make data-driven decisions to enhance their risk management practices.



The RACM typically includes the following components:



Risk identification: The matrix lists all the potential risks an organization may face, often categorized by business areas, processes, or functions.Risk assessment: Each identified risk is assessed based on its likelihood of occurrence and potential impact on the organization. This assessment helps prioritize risks and focus resources on the most critical areas.Control measures: For each risk, the matrix outlines the specific control measures implemented to mitigate or reduce the likelihood and impact of the risk. These measures can include policies, procedures, systems, or other mechanisms designed to manage the risk.Control effectiveness: The RACM evaluates the effectiveness of each control measure, taking into account factors such as the level of compliance, the adequacy of the control design, and the control's ability to detect or prevent the risk from materializing.Action plans: Based on the assessment of control effectiveness, the matrix may include action plans for improving risk control measures or addressing identified gaps in the organization's risk management practices.



By creating and maintaining an up-to-date RACM, organizations can gain a comprehensive understanding of their risk landscape and the effectiveness of their risk control measures. This information can inform strategic decision-making, guide resource allocation, and support continuous improvement in risk management practices.


  RCAM Example  













Example of a Hypothetical RCAM


Business Area
Risk Description
Likelihood
Impact
Risk Rating
Control Measure
Control Effectiveness
Action Plan




Finance
Fraudulent transactions
Medium
High
High
Implement strong access controls
Effective
Regularly review access controls







Regular audits and reconciliations
Effective
Increase audit frequency


HR
Employee data breach
Low
High
Medium
Secure storage and encryption of data
Effective
Monitor for new security threats







Employee training on data privacy practices
Partially effective
Enhance training program


Operations
Supply chain disruption
High
High
High
Diversify suppliers and sources
Effective
Expand supplier network







Maintain inventory safety stock
Effective
Adjust safety stock levels


IT
Cybersecurity attacks
High
High
High
Regular security updates and patches
Effective
Increase frequency of updates







Employee training on cybersecurity practices
Partially effective
Improve training content






This RCAM example outlines different risk categories, such as Finance, HR, Operations, and IT, and includes specific risks within each category. The likelihood and impact of each risk are assessed, leading to an overall risk rating. Control measures are then listed, along with an evaluation of their effectiveness. Finally, action plans are proposed to enhance risk control measures or address identified gaps in risk management.



Keep in mind that this is just a simplified example, and an actual RACM for an organization would likely be more detailed and cover a broader range of risks and controls.


   Examples of Risk Control  
  Sumitomo Electric and Disaster Resilience  

As part of Sumitomo Electric’s risk management efforts, the company developed business continuity plans (BCPs) in fiscal 2008 as a means of ensuring that core business activities could continue in the event of a disaster. The BCPs played a role in responding to issues caused by the Great East Japan earthquake that occurred in March 2011. Because the quake caused massive damage on an unprecedented scale, far surpassing the damage assumed in the BCPs, some areas of the plans did not reach their goals.



Based on lessons learned from the company’s response to the earthquake, executives continue promoting practical drills and training programs, confirming the effectiveness of the plans and improving them as needed.


  British Petroleum Oil Spill  

British Petroleum (BP) has implemented several risk control measures following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010, which was one of the largest environmental disasters in history. As a result of the spill, BP was subject to a $20.8 billion settlement with the U.S. government and five Gulf states in 2015. The company has since strengthened its risk management approach to prevent similar incidents in the future.



BP has focused on improving its safety culture, including conducting regular safety training and drills for employees, investing in advanced technology for better monitoring and control of drilling operations, and implementing rigorous safety standards across its global operations. The company has also adopted a systematic approach to risk assessment and management, which involves identifying, evaluating, and prioritizing risks and developing tailored risk control strategies to mitigate potential impacts.



Moreover, BP has increased its efforts to promote transparency and stakeholder engagement. The company now publishes an annual sustainability report that provides detailed information on its safety, environmental, and social performance, as well as its progress in implementing risk control measures. This openness allows stakeholders to hold the company accountable for its actions and fosters a culture of continuous improvement in risk management.


  Starbucks' Supply Chain  

Starbucks, a leading global coffee retailer, has implemented various risk control measures to manage its supply chain risks. The company sources coffee beans from multiple regions worldwide, making it vulnerable to fluctuations in supply and potential disruptions due to weather, political instability, or other unforeseen events.



To address these risks, Starbucks has adopted a diversified sourcing strategy, which involves procuring coffee beans from a wide range of suppliers across different regions. This approach helps the company reduce its reliance on any single supplier or region, ensuring a steady supply of raw materials and minimizing the impact of potential disruptions.



Furthermore, Starbucks has established a comprehensive set of supply chain standards, known as the Coffee and Farmer Equity (C.A.F.E.) Practices. These standards cover various aspects of coffee production, including quality, environmental sustainability, and social responsibility. By working closely with its suppliers and conducting regular audits, Starbucks can ensure compliance with these standards, thereby minimizing the risk of reputational damage and potential supply chain disruptions.



In addition, Starbucks uses advanced supply chain management software to monitor its global supply chain in real-time, enabling the company to identify potential risks early and take appropriate action to mitigate them. This proactive approach to risk control has helped Starbucks maintain its reputation for high-quality coffee and build a resilient, sustainable supply chain that supports its continued growth.




How Does Risk Control Differ from Risk Management?
Risk control is a subset of risk management. While risk management is the overarching process of identifying, assessing, and prioritizing risks to an organization, risk control focuses specifically on implementing strategies to mitigate or eliminate the identified risks. Risk management typically involves the development of an overall risk management plan, whereas risk control addresses the techniques and tactics employed to minimize potential losses and protect the organization.




Can a Company Eliminate All of Its Risks Through Risk Control?
No, it is not possible to eliminate all risks completely. Risk control aims to minimize and manage risks, but it cannot remove them entirely. Some risks are inherent in the business environment or the nature of the industry, while others may arise from unforeseen circumstances. The goal of risk control is to reduce the likelihood and potential impact of risks on the organization, helping to build resilience and maintain stability in the face of uncertainty.




How Can Companies Identify Emerging Risks?
Emerging risks can be challenging to identify, as they often involve novel or rapidly changing situations. Companies can employ various strategies to detect and monitor emerging risks, such as:Keeping up-to-date on industry trends, news, and research to identify potential risks on the horizon.Engaging in scenario planning to consider possible future developments and their implications for the organization.Utilizing big data analytics and artificial intelligence tools to analyze large datasets and identify patterns or trends that may signal emerging risks.Encouraging a culture of open communication and collaboration, enabling employees to share insights and concerns about potential risks.Establishing a dedicated risk management team responsible for monitoring and responding to emerging risks.




How Does Risk Control Relate to Corporate Social Responsibility?
Risk control and corporate social responsibility (CSR) are interconnected in several ways. By implementing risk control measures, companies can minimize potential harm to stakeholders, such as employees, customers, and the environment. This proactive approach to risk management aligns with the principles of CSR, which emphasize the importance of ethical and sustainable business practices. Additionally, effective risk control can help protect a company's reputation and maintain public trust, which are crucial aspects of CSR. In short, risk control is an essential component of a comprehensive CSR strategy, as it helps companies meet their social, environmental, and ethical obligations while ensuring long-term success and sustainability.


   The Bottom Line  

Risk control is a critical part of modern business management, enabling companies to identify, assess, and mitigate potential hazards and threats to their operations and objectives. By implementing a combination of risk control techniques, such as avoidance, loss prevention, loss reduction, separation, duplication, and diversification, businesses can minimize their exposure to risks and enhance their resilience. Real-world examples, such as British Petroleum's post-Deepwater Horizon safety measures and Starbucks' supply chain management strategies, demonstrate the importance and effectiveness of robust risk control measures. As the business environment continues to evolve, companies must remain vigilant and adaptive in their risk control efforts to ensure long-term success and sustainability.
What Is a Risk-Free Asset?  

A risk-free asset is one that has a certain future return—and virtually no possibility of loss. Debt obligations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury (bonds, notes, and especially Treasury bills) are considered to be risk-free because the "full faith and credit" of the U.S. government backs them. Because they are so safe, the return on risk-free assets is very close to the current interest rate.



Many academics say that, when it comes to investing, nothing can be 100% guaranteed—and so there's no such thing as a risk-free asset. Technically, this may be correct: All financial assets carry some degree of danger—the risk they will drop in value or become worthless altogether. However, the level of risk is so small that, for the average investor, it is appropriate to consider U.S. Treasurys or any government debt issued by a from stable Western nation to be risk-free.





key takeaways


A risk-free asset is one that has a certain future return—and virtually no possibility they will drop in value or become worthless altogether.
Risk-free assets tend to have low rates of return, since their safety means investors don't need to be compensated for taking a chance.
Risk-free assets are guaranteed against nominal loss, but not against a loss in purchasing power.
Over the long-term, risk-free assets may also be subject to reinvestment risk.



   Understanding a Risk-Free Asset  

When an investor takes on an investment, there is an anticipated return rate expected depending on the duration the asset is held. The risk is demonstrated by the fact that the actual return and the anticipated return may be very different. Since market fluctuations can be hard to predict, the unknown aspect of the future return is considered to be the risk. Generally, an increased level of risk indicates a higher chance of large fluctuations, which can translate to significant gains or losses depending on the ultimate outcome.



Risk-free investments are considered to be reasonably certain to gain at the level predicted. Since this gain is essentially known, the rate of return is often much lower to reflect the lower amount of risk. The expected return and actual return are likely to be about the same.



While the return on a risk-free asset is known, this does not guarantee a profit in regards to purchasing power. Depending on the length of time until maturity, inflation can cause the asset to lose purchasing power even if the dollar value has risen as predicted.


   Risk-Free Assets and Returns  

Risk-free return is the theoretical return attributed to an investment that provides a guaranteed return with zero risk. The risk-free rate represents the interest on an investor's money that would be expected from a risk-free asset when invested over a specified period of time. For example, investors commonly use the interest rate on a three-month U.S. T-bill as a proxy for the short-term risk-free rate.



The risk-free return is the rate against which other returns are measured. Investors that purchase a security with some measure of risk higher than that of a risk-free asset (like a U.S. Treasury bill) will naturally demand a higher level of return, because of the greater chance they're taking. The difference between the return earned and the risk-free return represents the risk premium on the security. In other words, the return on a risk-free asset is added to a risk premium to measure the total expected return on an investment.


   Reinvestment Risk  

While they're not risky in the sense of being likely to default, even risk-free assets can have an Achilles' heel. And that's known as reinvestment risk.



For a long-term investment to continue to be risk-free, any reinvestment necessary must also be risk-free. And often, the exact rate of return may not be predictable from the beginning for the entire duration of the investment.



For example, say a person invests in six-month Treasury bills twice a year, replacing one batch as it matures with another one. The risk of achieving each specified returned rate for the six months covering a particular Treasury bill's growth is essentially nil. However, interest rates may change between each instance of reinvestment. So the rate of return on the second Treasury bill that was purchased as part of the six-month reinvestment process may not be equal to the rate on the first Treasury bill purchased; the third bill may not equal the second's, and so on. In that regard, there is some risk over the long term. Each individual T-bill's return is guaranteed, but the rate of return over a decade (or however long the investor pursues this strategy) is not.
What Is the Risk-Free Rate of Return?  

The risk-free rate of return is the theoretical rate of return of an investment with zero risk. The risk-free rate represents the interest an investor would expect from an absolutely risk-free investment over a specified period of time.



The so-called "real" risk-free rate can be calculated by subtracting the current inflation rate from the yield of the Treasury bond matching your investment duration.





Key Takeaways

The risk-free rate of return refers to the theoretical rate of return of an investment with zero risk.Investors won't accept risk greater than zero unless the potential rate of return is higher than the risk-free rate. In practice, the risk-free rate of return does not truly exist, as every investment carries at least a small amount of risk.To calculate the real risk-free rate, subtract the inflation rate from the yield of the Treasury bond matching your investment duration.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding the Risk-Free Rate of Return  

In theory, the risk-free rate is the minimum return an investor expects for any investment. Investors will not accept additional risk unless the potential rate of return is greater than the risk-free rate. If you are finding a proxy for the risk-free rate of return, you must consider the investor's home market. Negative interest rates can complicate the issue.





Important

In practice, a truly risk-free rate does not exist because even the safest investments carry some small amount of risk.



Different countries and economic zones use different benchmarks as their risk-free rate. The interest rate on a three-month U.S. Treasury bill (T-bill) is often used as the risk-free rate for U.S.-based investors.



The three-month U.S. Treasury bill is a useful proxy because the market considers there to be virtually no chance of the U.S. government defaulting on its obligations. The large size and deep liquidity of the market contribute to the perception of safety.



A foreign investor whose assets are not denominated in dollars incurs currency risk when investing in U.S. Treasury bills. The risk can be hedged via currency forwards and options but affects the rate of return.



The short-term government bills of other highly rated countries, such as Germany and Switzerland, offer a risk-free rate proxy for investors with assets in euros (EUR) or Swiss francs (CHF). Investors based in less highly rated countries that are within the eurozone, such as Portugal and Greece, are able to invest in German bonds without incurring currency risk. By contrast, an investor with assets in Russian rubles cannot invest in a highly-rated government bond without incurring currency risk.






   Negative Interest Rates  

Negative interest can exist in certain economic climates; this can complicate calculating the risk-free rate of return and its impact on investors.



In 2021, flight to quality and away from high-yield instruments amid the long-running European debt crisis pushed interest rates into negative territory in the countries considered safest, such as Germany and Switzerland. In the United States, partisan battles in Congress over the need to raise the debt ceiling have sometimes sharply limited bill issuance, with the lack of supply driving prices sharply lower. The lowest permitted yield at a Treasury auction is zero, but bills sometimes trade with negative yields in the secondary market.



In Japan, stubborn deflation has led the Bank of Japan to pursue a policy of ultra-low, and sometimes negative, interest rates to stimulate the economy. Negative interest rates essentially push the concept of risk-free return to the extreme; investors are willing to pay to place their money in an asset they consider safe.




Why Is the U.S. 3-Month T-Bill Used as the Risk-Free Rate?
There can never be a truly risk-free rate because even the safest investments carry a very small amount of risk. However, the interest rate on a three-month U.S. Treasury bill is often used as the risk-free rate for U.S.-based investors. This is a useful proxy because the market considers there to be virtually no chance of the U.S. government defaulting on its obligations. The large size and deep liquidity of the market contribute to the perception of safety.




What Are the Common Sources of Risk?
Risk can manifest itself as absolute risk, relative risk, and/or default risk. Absolute risk as defined by volatility can be easily quantified by common measures like standard deviation. Relative risk, when applied to investments, is usually represented by the relation of price fluctuation of an asset to an index or base. Since the risk-free asset used is so short-term, it is not applicable to either absolute or relative risk. Default risk, which, in this case, is the risk that the U.S. government would default on its debt obligations, is the risk that applies when using the 3-month T-bill as the risk-free rate.




What Are the Characteristics of the U.S. Treasury Bills (T-Bills)?
Treasury bills (T-bills) are assumed to have zero default risk because they represent and are backed by the good faith of the U.S. government. They are sold at a discount from par at a weekly auction in a competitive bidding process. They don't pay traditional interest payments like their cousins, the Treasury notes and Treasury bonds, and are sold in various maturities in denominations of $1,000. Finally, they can be purchased by individuals directly from the government.


   The Bottom Line  

The risk-free rate of return is the theoretical rate of return that an investor would expect on an investment with zero risk. Any investment with a risk level greater than zero must offer a higher rate of return. In practice, this rate of return doesn't truly exist: every investment carries some amount of risk, even if that risk is small.



The three-month U.S. Treasury bill is often used as a proxy for a risk-free rate of return in U.S. markets because the risk of default by the government is low. Other countries and economic zones may use different proxies, such as euros or Swiss francs.
What Is Risk Management?  

Risk management involves identifying, analyzing, and accepting or mitigating uncertainty in investment decisions. Put simply, it is the process of monitoring and dealing with the financial risks associated with investing. Risk management essentially occurs when an investor or fund manager analyzes and attempts to quantify the potential for losses in an investment, such as a moral hazard, and then takes the appropriate action (or inaction) to meet their objectives and risk tolerance.





Key Takeaways

Risk management is the process of identification, analysis, and acceptance or mitigation of uncertainty in investment decisions.Risk is inseparable from return in the investment world.Risk management strategies include avoidance, retention, sharing, transferring, and loss prevention and reduction.One of the tactics to ascertain risk is standard deviation, which is a statistical measure of dispersion around a central tendency.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   How Risk Management Works  

Risk is inseparable from return. Every investment involves some degree of risk. It can come close to zero for U.S. T-bills or very high for emerging-market equities or real estate in highly inflationary markets. Risk is quantified in absolute and in relative terms. A solid understanding of risk in its different forms can help investors to better understand the opportunities, trade-offs, and costs involved with different investment approaches.



Risk management involves identifying and analyzing where risk exists, and making decisions about how to deal with it. It occurs everywhere in the realm of finance. For instance:



An investor may choose U.S. Treasury bonds over corporate bonds
A fund manager may hedge their currency exposure with currency derivatives
A bank performs a credit check on an individual before issuing a personal line of credit
A stockbroker uses financial instruments like options and futures
A money manager uses strategies like portfolio diversification, asset allocation, and position sizing to mitigate or effectively manage risk



Diligent risk management can help reduce the chance of losses while ensuring that financial goals are met. Inadequate risk management, though, can result in severe consequences for companies, individuals, and the economy. The subprime mortgage meltdown that led to the Great Recession stemmed from bad risk management. Lenders gave mortgages to people with bad credit and investment firms bought, packaged, and resold these loans to investors as risky, mortgage-backed securities (MBSs).


   Risk Management Techniques  

The following is a list of some of the most common risk management techniques.



Avoidance: The most obvious way to manage your risk is by avoiding it completely. Some investors make their investment decisions by cutting out volatility and risk completely. This means choosing the safest assets with little to no risks.
Retention: This strategy involves accepting any risks that come your way and acknowledging that they come with the territory.
Sharing: This technique comes with two or more parties taking on an agreed-upon portion of the risk. For instance, reinsurers cover risks that insurance companies can't handle on their own.
 Transferring: Risks can be passed on from one party to another. For instance, health insurance involves passing on the risk of coverage from you to your insurer as long as you keep up with your premiums.
Loss Prevention and Reduction: Rather than eliminate the potential for risk, this strategy means that you find ways to minimize your losses by preventing them from spreading to other areas. Diversification may be a way for investors to reduce their losses.






The word risk is often thought of negatively. But risk is an integral part of the investment world and is inseparable from performance.


   Risk Management and Volatility  

Investment risk is the deviation from an expected outcome. This deviation is expressed in absolute terms or relative to something else like a market benchmark. Investment professionals generally accept the idea that the deviation implies some degree of the intended outcome for your investments, whether positive or negative.



To achieve higher returns, one expects to accept the greater risk. It is also a generally accepted idea that increased risk means increased volatility. While investment professionals constantly seek and occasionally find ways to reduce volatility, there is no clear agreement on how to do it.



How much volatility an investor should accept depends entirely on their risk tolerance. For investment professionals, it is based on the tolerance of their investment objectives. One of the most commonly used absolute risk metrics is standard deviation, which is a statistical measure of dispersion around a central tendency.



Here's how it works. Take the average return of an investment and find its average standard deviation over the same time period. Normal distributions (the familiar bell-shaped curve) dictate that the expected return of the investment may be one standard deviation from the average 67% of the time and two standard deviations from the average deviation 95% of the time. This provides a numeric risk evaluation. If the risk is tolerable (financially and emotionally), they can invest.






   Risk Management and Psychology  

Behavioral finance highlights the imbalance between people's views of gains and losses. In prospect theory, an area of behavioral finance introduced by Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman in 1979, investors exhibit loss aversion. They noted that investors put roughly twice the weight on the pain associated with a loss than the good feeling associated with a profit.



Investors often want to know the losses that come with an investment as well as how much an asset deviates from its expected outcome. Value at risk (VAR) tries to quantify the degree of loss associated with an investment with a given level of confidence over a defined period. For example, an investor may lose $200 on a $1,000 investment with a 95% level of confidence over a two-year time horizon. Keep in mind that a measure like VAR doesn't guarantee that 5% of the time will be much worse.



It also doesn't account for any outlier events, which hit hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM) in 1998. The Russian government's default on its outstanding sovereign debt obligations threatened to bankrupt the hedge fund, which had highly leveraged positions worth over $1 trillion. Its failure could have collapsed the global financial system. But the U.S. government created a $3.65-billion loan fund to cover the losses, which enabled LTCM to survive the volatility and liquidate in early 2000.






The confidence level is a probability statement based on the statistical characteristics of the investment and the shape of its distribution curve. 


   Types of Risk Management  
  Beta and Passive  

One risk measure oriented to behavioral tendencies is a drawdown, which refers to any period during which an asset's return is negative relative to a previous high mark. In measuring drawdown, we attempt to address three things:



The magnitude of each negative period (how bad)The duration of each (how long)The frequency (how often)



For example, in addition to wanting to know whether a mutual fund beat the S&P 500, we also want to know its comparative risk. One measure for this is beta. Also called market risk, beta is based on the statistical property of covariance. A beta greater than 1 indicates more risk than the market while a beta less than 1 indicates lower volatility.



Beta helps us to understand the concepts of passive and active risk. The graph below shows a time series of returns (each data point labeled "+") for a particular portfolio R(p) versus the market return R(m). The returns are cash-adjusted, so the point at which the x and y-axes intersect is the cash-equivalent return. Drawing a line of best fit through the data points allows us to quantify the passive risk (beta) and the active risk (alpha).












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The gradient of the line is its beta. So a gradient of 1 indicates that for every unit increase in market return, the portfolio return also increases by one unit. A money manager employing a passive management strategy can attempt to increase the portfolio return by taking on more market risk (i.e., a beta greater than 1) or alternatively decrease portfolio risk (and return) by reducing the portfolio beta below one.


  Alpha and Active  

If market or systematic risk were the only influencing factor, then a portfolio's return would always be equal to the beta-adjusted market return. But this isn't the case. Returns vary because of a number of factors unrelated to market risk. Investment managers who follow an active strategy take on other risks to achieve excess returns over the market's performance, including:



Tactics that leverage stock
Sector or country selection
Fundamental analysis
Position sizing
Technical analysis



Active managers hunt for an alpha, the measure of excess return. In our diagram example above, alpha is the amount of portfolio return not explained by beta, which is represented as the distance between the intersection of the x and y-axes and the y-axis intercept. This can be positive or negative.



In their quest for excess returns, active managers expose investors to alpha risk, the risk that the result of their bets will prove negative rather than positive. For example, a fund manager may think that the energy sector will outperform the S&P 500 and increase her portfolio's weighting in this sector. If unexpected economic developments cause energy stocks to sharply decline, the manager will likely underperform the benchmark.


   The Cost of Risk  

The more an active fund and its managers can generate alpha, the higher the fees they tend to charge. For purely passive vehicles like index funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs), you're likely to pay one to 10 basis points (bps) in annual management fees. Investors may pay 200 bps in annual fees for a high-octane hedge fund with complex trading strategies, high capital commitments, and transaction costs. They may also have to give back 20% of the profits to the manager.



The pricing difference between passive (beta risk) and active strategies (alpha risk) encourages many investors to try and separate these risks, such as paying lower fees for the beta risk assumed and concentrating costly exposures to specifically defined alpha opportunities. This is popularly known as portable alpha, the idea that the alpha component of a total return is separate from the beta component.



For instance, a fund manager may claim to have an active sector rotation strategy for beating the S&P 500 with a track record of beating the index by 1.5% on an average annualized basis. This excess return is the manager's value (the alpha) and the investor is willing to pay higher fees to obtain it. The rest of the total return (what the S&P 500 itself earned) arguably has nothing to do with the manager's unique ability. Portable alpha strategies use derivatives and other tools to refine how they obtain and pay for the alpha and beta components of their exposure.


   Example of Risk Management  

During a 15-year period from Aug. 1, 1992, to July 31, 2007, the average annualized total return of the S&P 500 was 10.7%. This number reveals what happened for the whole period, but it does not say what happened along the way.



The average standard deviation of the S&P 500 for that same period was 13.5%. This is the difference between the average return and the real return at most given points throughout the 15-year period.



When applying the bell curve model, any given outcome should fall within one standard deviation of the mean about 67% of the time and within two standard deviations about 95% of the time. Thus, an S&P 500 investor could expect the return, at any given point during this period, to be 10.7% plus or minus the standard deviation of 13.5% about 67% of the time. They may also assume a 27% (two standard deviations) increase or decrease 95% of the time. If they can afford the loss, they invest.




Why Is Risk Management Important?
Risk management is a key part of the investment and financial world. It requires investors and fund managers to identify, analyze, and make important decisions about the uncertainty that comes with reaching their goals. Risk management allows individuals to reach their goals while mitigating or dealing with any of the associated losses.




How Can I Practice Risk Management in Personal Finance?
There are a few different steps that individuals can take to practice risk management in their personal finances. Start by identifying your goals, and then highlight the risks associated with your objectives. Once you know what the risks are, evaluate them and research the best ways to manage these risks. You will likely have to monitor and make adjustments to ensure you stay on top of your goals.




How Do Companies Manage Their Operational Risk?
Operational risk is any risk associated with the day-to-day operations of a business. Companies can manage it by identifying and assessing potential risks, measuring them, and putting controls in place to either mitigate or eliminate them altogether. It's also important that corporations monitor their operations and risk management techniques to see if they are working and make changes whenever necessary.


   The Bottom Line  

Risk is an important part of the financial world. The word often brings up feelings of negativity since there is the potential for capital and investment loss. But risk isn't always bad because investments that have more risk often come with the biggest rewards. Knowing what the risks are, how to identify them, and employing suitable risk management techniques can help mitigate losses while you reap the rewards.
What Are Risk Measures?  

Risk measures are statistical measures that are historical predictors of investment risk and volatility, and they are also major components in modern portfolio theory (MPT). MPT is a standard financial and academic methodology for assessing the performance of a stock or a stock fund as compared to its benchmark index.



There are five principal risk measures, and each measure provides a unique way to assess the risk present in investments that are under consideration. The five measures include the alpha, beta, R-squared, standard deviation, and Sharpe ratio. Risk measures can be used individually or together to perform a risk assessment. When comparing two potential investments, it is wise to compare like for like to determine which investment holds the most risk.





Key Takeaways

Risk measures are statistical measures that are historical predictors of investment risk and volatility.Risk measures are also major components in modern portfolio theory (MPT), a standard financial methodology for assessing investment performance.The five principal risk measures include the alpha, beta, R-squared, standard deviation, and Sharpe ratio. 


   Understanding Risk Measures  
  Alpha  

Alpha measures risk relative to the market or a selected benchmark index. For example, if the S&P 500 has been deemed the benchmark for a particular fund, the activity of the fund would be compared to that experienced by the selected index. If the fund outperforms the benchmark, it is said to have a positive alpha. If the fund falls below the performance of the benchmark, it is considered to have a negative alpha.


  Beta  

Beta measures the volatility or systemic risk of a fund in comparison to the market or the selected benchmark index. A beta of one indicates the fund is expected to move in conjunction with the benchmark. Betas below one are considered less volatile than the benchmark, while those over one are considered more volatile than the benchmark.


  R-Squared  

R-Squared measures the percentage of an investment's movement attributable to movements in its benchmark index. An R-squared value represents the correlation between the examined investment and its associated benchmark. For example, an R-squared value of 95 would be considered to have a high correlation, while an R-squared value of 50 may be considered low.



The U.S. Treasury Bill functions as a benchmark for fixed-income securities, while the S&P 500 Index functions as a benchmark for equities.


  Standard Deviation  

Standard deviation is a method of measuring data dispersion in regards to the mean value of the dataset and provides a measurement regarding an investment’s volatility.



As it relates to investments, the standard deviation measures how much return on investment is deviating from the expected normal or average returns.


  Sharpe Ratio  

The Sharpe ratio measures performance as adjusted by the associated risks. This is done by removing the rate of return on a risk-free investment, such as a U.S. Treasury Bond, from the experienced rate of return.



This is then divided by the associated investment’s standard deviation and serves as an indicator of whether an investment's return is due to wise investing or due to the assumption of excess risk.
What Is Risk Neutral?  

Risk neutral is a concept used in both game theory studies and in finance. It refers to a mindset where an individual is indifferent to risk when making an investment decision. This mindset is not derived from calculation or rational deduction, but rather from an emotional preference. A person with a risk-neutral approach simply doesn't focus on the risk, regardless of whether or not that is an ill-advised thing to do. This mindset is often situational and can be dependent on price or other external factors.





Key Takeaways

Risk neutral describes a mindset where investors focus on potential gains when making investment decisions.Risk neutral investors may understand that risk is involved, but they aren't considering it for the moment.An investor can change their mindset from risk averse to risk neutral.Risk-neutral measures play an important part in derivatives pricing.


   Understanding the Concept of Risk Neutral  

Risk neutral is a term used to describe the attitude of an individual who may be evaluating investment alternatives. If the individual focuses solely on potential gains regardless of the risk, they are said to be risk neutral. Such behavior, to evaluate reward without thought to risk, may seem to be inherently risky. A risk averse investor would not consider the choice to risk a $1000 loss with the possibility of making a $50 gain to be the same as risking only $100 to make the same $50 gain. However someone who is risk neutral would. Given two investment opportunities the risk-neutral investor only looks at the potential gains of each investment and ignores the potential downside risk.


   Risk Neutral Pricing and Measures  

There could be any number of reasons why an individual would reach a risk-neutral mindset, but the idea that an individual could actually change from a risk averse mindset to a risk-neutral mindset based on pricing changes then leads to another important concept: that of risk-neutral measures. Risk-neutral measures have extensive application in the pricing of derivatives because the price where investors would be expected to exhibit a risk-neutral attitude should be a price of equilibrium between buyers and sellers.



Individual investors are almost always risk averse, meaning that they have a mindset where they exhibit more fear over losing money than the amount of eagerness they exhibit over making money. This tendency often results in the price of an asset finding a point of equilibrium somewhat below what might be accounted for by the expected future returns on this asset. When trying to model and adjust for this effect in marketplace pricing, analysts and academics attempt to adjust for this risk aversion by using these theoretical risk-neutral measures.


   Example of Risk Neutral  

For example, consider a scenario where 100 investors are presented and accept the opportunity to gain $100 if they deposit $10,000 in a bank for six months. There is virtually no risk of losing money (unless the bank itself were in danger of going out of business). Then suppose those same 100 investors are subsequently presented with an alternative investment. This investment gives them the opportunity of gaining $10,000, while accepting the possibility of losing all $10,000. Finally suppose we poll the investors over which investment they would choose and give them three responses: (A) I'd never consider that alternative, (B) I need more information about the alternative investment, (C) I'll invest in the alternative right now.



In this scenario, those who responded A, would be considered risk-averse investors, and those who responded C would be considered risk seeking investors, since the investment value is not accurately determinable with only that much information. However, those who responded with B recognize that they need more information to determine whether they would be interested in the alternative. They are neither adverse to risk nor seeking it for its own sake. Instead, they are interested in the value of expected returns to know whether or not they prefer to take the risk. So at the moment they seek more information, they are considered risk neutral.



Such investors would probably want to know what the probability of doubling their money might be (in comparison to possibly losing it all). If the probability of doubling were only 50%, then they could recognize that the expected value of that investment is zero since it has an equal possibility of losing everything or doubling. If the probability of doubling were to shift to 60%, then those who were willing to consider the alternative at that point, would have adopted a risk-neutral mindset, because they were focused on the probability of gain and no longer focused on the risk.



The price at which risk-neutral investors manifest their behavior of considering alternatives, despite the risk, is an important point of price equilibrium. This is a point where the greatest number of buyers and sellers may be present in the market.
What Are Risk-Neutral Measures?  

A risk neutral measure is a probability measure used in mathematical finance to aid in pricing derivatives and other financial assets. Risk neutral measures give investors a mathematical interpretation of the overall market’s risk averseness to a particular asset, which must be taken into account in order to estimate the correct price for that asset.



A risk neutral measure is also known as an equilibrium measure or equivalent martingale measure. 


   Risk-Neutral Measures Explained  

Risk neutral measures were developed by financial mathematicians in order to account for the problem of risk aversion in stock, bond, and derivatives markets. Modern financial theory says that the current value of an asset should be worth the present value of the expected future returns on that asset. This makes intuitive sense, but there is one problem with this formulation, and that is that investors are risk averse, or more afraid to lose money than they are eager to make it. This tendency often results in the price of an asset being somewhat below the expected future returns on this asset. As a result, investors and academics must adjust for this risk aversion; risk-neutral measures are an attempt at this. 


   Risk Neutral Measures and the Fundamental Theorem of Asset Pricing  

A risk-neutral measure for a market can be derived using assumptions held by the fundamental theorem of asset pricing, a framework in financial mathematics used to study real-world financial markets.



In the fundamental theorem of asset pricing, it is assumed that there are never opportunities for arbitrage, or an investment that continuously and reliably makes money with no upfront cost to the investor. Experience says this is a pretty good assumption for a model of actual financial markets, though there surely have been exceptions in the history of markets. The fundamental theorem of asset pricing also assumes that markets are complete, meaning that markets are frictionless and that all actors have perfect information about what they are buying and selling. Finally, it assumes that a price can be derived for every asset. These assumptions are much less justified when thinking about real-world markets, but it is necessary to simplify the world when constructing a model of it.



Only if these assumptions are met can a single risk-neutral measure be calculated. Because the assumption in the fundamental theorem of asset pricing distorts actual conditions in the market, it’s important not to rely too much on any one calculation in the pricing of assets in a financial portfolio.
What Are Risk-Neutral Probabilities?  

Risk-neutral probabilities are probabilities of potential future outcomes adjusted for risk, which are then used to compute expected asset values. In other words, assets and securities are bought and sold as if the hypothetical fair, single probability for an outcome were a reality, even though that is not, in fact, the actual scenario.





Key Takeaways

Risk-neutral probabilities are probabilities of possible future outcomes that have been adjusted for risk.Risk-neutral probabilities can be used to calculate expected asset values. Risk-neutral probabilities are used for figuring fair prices for an asset or financial holding.The idea of risk-neutral probabilities is often used in pricing derivatives. A key assumption in computing risk-neutral probabilities is the absence of arbitrage.


   Understanding Risk-Neutral Probabilities   

Risk-neutral probabilities are used to try to determine objective fair prices for an asset or financial instrument. You are assessing the probability with the risk taken out of the equation, so it doesn’t play a factor in the anticipated outcome.



By contrast, if you tried to estimate the anticipated value of that particular stock based on how likely it is to go up or down, considering unique factors or market conditions that influence that specific asset, you would be including risk into the equation and, thus, would be looking at real or physical probability.



The benefit of this risk-neutral pricing approach is that once the risk-neutral probabilities are calculated, they can be used to price every asset based on its expected payoff. These theoretical risk-neutral probabilities differ from actual real-world probabilities, which are sometimes also referred to as physical probabilities. If real-world probabilities were used, the expected values of each security would need to be adjusted for its individual risk profile.



You might think of this approach as a structured method of guessing what the fair and proper price for a financial asset should be by tracking price trends for other similar assets and then estimating the average to arrive at your best guess. For this approach, you would try to level out the extreme fluctuations at either end of the spectrum, creating a balance that creates a stable, level price point. You would essentially be minimizing the possible unusual high market outcomes while increasing the possible lows.


   Special Considerations   

Risk neutral is a term that describes an investor’s appetite for risk. Risk-neutral investors are not concerned with the risk of an investment. However, risk-averse investors have a greater fear of losing money.



The term risk-neutral can sometimes be misleading because some people may assume it means that the investors are neutral, unconcerned, or unaware of risk—or that the investment itself has no risk (or has a risk that can somehow be eliminated). However, risk-neutral doesn’t necessarily imply that the investor is unaware of the risk; instead, it implies the investor understands the risks but it isn’t factoring it into their decision at the moment. 



A risk-neutral investor prefers to focus on the potential gain of the investment instead. When faced with two investment options, an investor who is risk-neutral would solely consider the gains of each investment, while choosing to overlook the risk potential (even though they may be aware of the inherent risk).



Implementing risk-neutral probability in equations when calculating pricing for fixed-income financial instruments is useful. This is because you are able to price a security at its trade price when employing the risk-neutral measure. A key assumption in computing risk-neutral probabilities is the absence of arbitrage. The concept of risk-neutral probabilities is widely used in pricing derivatives.
What Is Risk-On Risk-Off?  

Risk-on risk-off is an investment setting in which price behavior responds to and is driven by changes in investor risk tolerance. Risk-on risk-off refers to changes in investment activity in response to global economic patterns.



During periods when risk is perceived as low, the risk-on risk-off theory states that investors tend to engage in higher-risk investments. When risk is perceived to be high, investors have the tendency to gravitate toward lower-risk investments.


   Understanding Risk-On Risk-Off  

Investors' appetites for risk rise and fall over time. At times, investors are more likely to invest in higher-risk instruments than during other periods, such as during the 2009 economic recovery period. The 2008 financial crisis was considered a risk-off year, when investors attempted to reduce risk by selling existing risky positions and moving money to either cash positions or low/no-risk positions, such as U.S. Treasury bonds.



Not all asset classes carry the same risk. Investors tend to change asset classes depending on the perceived risk in the markets. For instance, stocks are generally considered to be riskier assets than bonds. Therefore, a market where stocks are outperforming bonds is said to be a risk-on environment. When stocks are selling off and investors run for shelter to bonds or gold, the environment is said to be risk-off.






Investors invest in a risk on environment when they put their money into riskier assets.


   Risk Sentiment  

While asset prices ultimately detail the risk sentiment of the market, investors can often find signs of changing sentiment through corporate earnings, macroeconomic data, global central bank action and statements, and other factors.



Risk-on environments are often carried by a combination of expanding corporate earnings, optimistic economic outlook, accommodative central bank policies, and speculation. We can also assume that an increase in the stock market is a sign that risk is on. As investors feel the market is being supported by strong influential fundamentals, they perceive less risk about the market and its outlook.



Conversely, risk-off environments can be caused by widespread corporate earnings downgrades, contracting or slowing economic data, uncertain central bank policy, a rush to safe investments, and other factors. Just like the stock market rises relating to a risk on environment, a drop in the stock market equals a risk off environment. That's because investors want to avoid risk and are averse to it.





Key Takeaways

Risk-on risk-off is an investment paradigm under which asset prices are dictated by changes in investors' risk tolerance.In risk-on situations, investors have a high risk appetite and bid up the prices of assets in the market.In risk-off situations, investors become more risk-averse and sell assets, sending their prices lower.


   Returns and Risk-On Risk-Off  

As the perceived risk rises in the markets, investors jump from risky assets and pile into high-grade bonds, U.S. Treasury bonds, gold, cash, and other safe havens. While returns on these assets are not expected to be excessive, they provide downside protection to portfolios during times of distress.



When risks subside in the market, low-return assets and safe havens are dumped for high-yielding bonds, stocks, commodities, and other assets that carry elevated risk. As overall market risks stay low, investors are more willing to take on portfolio risk for the chance of higher returns.
What Is Risk Parity?  

Risk parity is a portfolio allocation strategy that uses risk to determine allocations across various components of an investment portfolio. The risk parity strategy modifies the modern portfolio theory (MPT) approach to investing through the use of leverage.



MPT seeks to diversify an investment portfolio among specified assets to optimize returns while adhering to market risk parameters by viewing the risk and returns for the entire portfolio, but only utilizing long and unmargined positions. With risk parity strategies, portfolio managers can derive exact capital contribution proportions of asset classes in a portfolio to achieve optimized diversification for a range of objectives and investor preferences.






The risk parity approach to portfolio construction seeks to allocate investment capital on a risk-weighted basis to optimally diversify investments, viewing the risk and return of the entire portfolio as one.The risk parity approach builds off of modern portfolio theory (MPT) but allows for the use of leverage and short selling.Risk parity requires a great deal of quantitative calculation, which makes its allocations more advanced than simplified allocation strategies.


   Understanding Risk Parity  

Risk parity is an advanced portfolio technique often used by hedge funds and sophisticated investors. It requires a complex quantitative methodology, which makes its allocations more advanced than simplified allocation strategies. The goal of risk parity investing is to earn the optimal level of return at the targeted risk level.



Simplified allocation strategies such as the 60%/40% stocks-bonds portfolio make use of MPT. MPT provides a standard for diversification within one's investment portfolio that maximizes expected return for a given level of risk. In simplified MPT strategies using just stocks and bonds, allocations are usually more heavily weighted toward equities for investors who wish to take on more risk. Risk-averse investors will instead have a higher weight in bonds for capital preservation.



Risk parity strategies allow for both leverage and alternative diversification, along with short selling in portfolios and funds. Following this approach, portfolio managers can use any mix of assets they choose. However, instead of generating allocations to different asset classes to arrive at an optimal risk target, risk parity strategies use the optimal risk target level as their basis for investing. This goal is often achieved by using leverage to weight risk equally among different asset classes using the optimal risk target level.


   Risk Parity Methods  

With a risk parity strategy, an investment portfolio will often include stocks and bonds. However, instead of using a predetermined proportion of asset diversification such as 60/40, the investment class proportions are determined by a targeted risk and return level. Risk parity strategies have generally evolved and developed from MPT investing. They allow investors to target specific levels of risk and to divide risk across the entire investment portfolio to achieve optimized portfolio diversification.



The security market line (SML) is another part of the risk parity approach. The SML is a graphical representation of the relationship between the risk and return of an asset and is used in the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). The slope of the line is determined by the beta of the market. The line slopes upward. The greater the possibility for the return of an asset, the higher the risk associated with that asset.



There is a built-in assumption that the slope of the SML is constant. The constant slope assumption, however, may not actually be realistic. For the traditional 60/40 allocation, investors must take greater risk to achieve acceptable returns and the diversification benefits are limited as more and riskier equities are added to the portfolio. Risk parity solves this issue by using leverage to equalize the amount of volatility and risk across the different assets in the portfolio.


   Real World Examples of Risk Parity  

The AQR Risk Parity Fund invests globally across stocks, bonds, currencies, and commodities and seeks to achieve optimal return through balanced risk parity investing.



Horizon's Global Risk Parity ETF also uses a risk parity strategy in its investments. The exchange traded fund (ETF) employs an equal risk-weighted volatility distribution to determine the amount of capital participation.
What Is a Risk Premium?  

A risk premium is the investment return an asset is expected to yield in excess of the risk-free rate of return. An asset's risk premium is a form of compensation for investors. It represents payment to investors for tolerating the extra risk in a given investment over that of a risk-free asset.



For example, high-quality bonds issued by established corporations earning large profits typically come with little default risk. Therefore, these bonds pay a lower interest rate than bonds issued by less-established companies with uncertain profitability and a higher risk of default. The higher interest rates these less-established companies must pay is how investors are compensated for their higher tolerance of risk.





Key Takeaways

A risk premium is the investment return an asset is expected to yield in excess of the risk-free rate of return.Investors expect to be compensated for the risk they undertake when making an investment. This comes in the form of a risk premium.The equity risk premium is the premium investors expect to make for taking on the relatively higher risk of buying stocks.The ERP averaged about 5% from 1928 to 2022.


   How a Risk Premium Works  

Think of risk premium as a form of hazard pay for your investments. An employee assigned dangerous work expects to receive hazard pay in compensation for the risks they undertake. It's similar with risky investments. A risky investment must provide the potential for larger returns to compensate an investor for the risk of losing some or all of their capital.



This compensation comes in the form of a risk premium, which is the additional returns above what investors can earn risk-free from investments such as a U.S. government security. The premium rewards investors for the prospect of losing their money in a failing business, and it isn't actually earned unless the business succeeds.



A risk premium can be construed as a true earnings reward because risky investments are inherently more profitable should they succeed. Investments in well-penetrated markets—and which tend to have predictable outcomes—are not likely to change the world. On the other hand, paradigm-shifting breakthroughs are more likely to come from novel and risky initiatives. It's these types of investments that can potentially offer superior returns, which a business owner may then use to reward investors. This one underlying incentive is why some investors seek riskier investments, knowing they can reap potentially bigger payoffs.






   Premium Cost  

A risk premium can be costly for borrowers, especially those with doubtful prospects. These borrowers must pay investors a higher risk premium in the form of higher interest rates. However, by taking on a greater financial burden, they could be jeopardizing their very chances for success, thus increasing the potential for default.



With this in mind, it is in the best interest of investors to consider how much risk premium they demand. Otherwise, they could find themselves fighting over debt collections in the event of a default. In many debt-laden bankruptcies, investors recoup just a few cents on the dollar on their investment, despite the initial promises of a high-risk premium.






While economists acknowledge an equity premium exists in the market, they are equally confused as to why it exists. This is known as the equity premium puzzle.


   The Equity Risk Premium  

The equity risk premium (ERP) refers to the excess return that investing in the stock market provides over a risk-free rate. This excess return compensates investors for taking on the relatively higher risk of buying stocks.
The size of the premium varies depending on the level of risk in a particular portfolio and also changes over time as market risk fluctuates. As a rule, high-risk investments are compensated with a higher premium. Most economists agree the concept of an equity risk premium is valid: over the long term, markets compensate investors more for taking on the greater risk of investing in stocks. 
The equity risk premium can be computed in several ways, but is often estimated using the capital asset pricing model (CAPM):















CAPM(Cost of equity)


=



R


f



+


β


(



R


m



−



R


f



)
















where:

















R


f



=


Risk-free rate of return
















β


=


Beta coefficient for the stock market

















R


m



−



R


f



=


Excess return expected from the market







\begin{aligned} &\text{CAPM(Cost of equity)} = R_f + \beta ( R_m - R_f ) \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &R_f = \text{Risk-free rate of return} \\ &\beta = \text{Beta coefficient for the stock market} \\ &R_m - R_f = \text{Excess return expected from the market} \\ \end{aligned}


​CAPM(Cost of equity)=Rf​+β(Rm​−Rf​)where:Rf​=Risk-free rate of returnβ=Beta coefficient for the stock marketRm​−Rf​=Excess return expected from the market​
The cost of equity is effectively the equity risk premium. Rf is the risk-free rate of return, and Rm-Rf is the excess return of the market, multiplied by the stock market's beta coefficient.
From 1928 to 2022, the U.S. ERP averaged 5.06%, compared with 4.6% for the 1871-1925 period and 2.9% for the earlier 1802-1870 period. From 1926 to 2002, the equity risk premium was particularly high at 8.4%, which puzzled economists. From 2011 through 2022, the average market risk premium in the U.S. was 5.5%.
What is the current equity risk premium?
At the beginning of May 2023, the ERP stood at 4.77%, according to Aswath Damodaran, a professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University. That is slightly less than average and a sharp drop from the 5.94% registered at the start of 2023.
Lower ERPs generally make investing in stocks less compelling, whereas higher ERPs imply higher potential rewards. The year 2022 was a volatile one for stock markets and the ERP subsequently moved quite a bit. According to Damodaran, it started 2022 at 4.24% and began 2023 at 5.94%, perhaps implying that the market was viewed as undervalued after a sharp sell-off.
The drop in ERP since the start of 2023 can be attributed to several factors, including a rise in equity valuations and a series of interest rate hikes from the Federal Reserve boosting returns on safer fixed-income investments.





5.6%

The average U.S. equity risk premium in 2022.




What Is the Risk Premium for an Investment?
The risk premium is the extra amount you're expected to get for taking on risk. It is the percentage return you get over what you’d receive if you made an investment with zero risk. So, for example, if the S&P has a risk premium of 5%, it means you should expect to get 5% more from investing in this index than from investing in, say, a guaranteed certificate of deposit.




What Is an Example of a Risk Premium?
Let’s say you invest in a stock that is expected to deliver an annual return of 8%, including dividends. If you could get an annual return free of risk of 3% elsewhere, the risk premium for this stock would be 5%.




How Is Risk Premium Calculated?
The risk premium can be calculated by subtracting the expected return of a risk-free investment from the expected return of an investment with risk. What you are left with is the compensation for the risk you’re taking on.


   The Bottom Line  

The higher the risk of losing capital, the more an investor expects to be compensated. This compensation comes in the form of a risk premium, which basically means the extra returns above what can be earned on an investment without risk.



Over the past 90-odd years, the risk premium of stocks in the U.S. has averaged about 5%. Equity markets can fluctuate a lot, though, and a higher ERP doesn’t necessarily mean you should buy, just as a lower ERP shouldn’t necessarily force you to look elsewhere.
What Is a Risk Profile?  

A risk profile is an evaluation of an individual's willingness and ability to take risks. It can also refer to the threats to which an organization is exposed. A risk profile is important for determining a proper investment asset allocation for a portfolio. Organizations use a risk profile as a way to mitigate potential risks and threats.





Key Takeaways

A risk profile is an evaluation of an individual's willingness and ability to take risks. A risk profile is important for determining a proper investment asset allocation for a portfolio. Organizations use a risk profile as a way to mitigate potential risks and threats.


   Understanding Risk Profile  

A risk profile identifies the acceptable level of risk an individual is prepared and able to accept. A corporation's risk profile attempts to determine how a willingness to take on risk (or an aversion to risk) will affect an overall decision-making strategy. The risk profile for an individual should determine that person's willingness and ability to take on risk. Risk in this sense refers to portfolio risk.






Risk can be thought of as the trade-off between risk and return, which is to say the tradeoff between earning a higher return or having a lower chance of losing money in a portfolio.



Willingness to take on risk refers to an individual's risk aversion. If an individual expresses a strong desire not to see the value of the account decline and is willing to forgo potential capital appreciation to achieve this, this person would have a low willingness to take on risk and is risk-averse.



Conversely, if an individual expresses a desire for the highest possible return—and is willing to endure large swings in the value of the account to achieve it—this person would have a high willingness to take on risk and is a risk seeker.



The ability to take risks is evaluated through a review of an individual's assets and liabilities. An individual with many assets and few liabilities has a high ability to take on risk. Conversely, an individual with few assets and high liabilities has a low ability to take on risk. For example, an individual with a well-funded retirement account, sufficient emergency savings and insurance coverage, and additional savings and investments (with no mortgage or personal loans) likely has a high ability to take on risk.



Willingness and ability to take risk may not always match up. For example, the individual in the example above with high assets and low liabilities may have a high ability to take on risk, but may also be conservative by nature and express a low willingness to take on risk. In this case, the willingness and ability to take risk differ and will affect the ultimate portfolio construction process.


   Special Considerations  

Risk profiles can be created in a number of ways, but generally, begin with a risk profile questionnaire. All risk profile questionnaires score an individual's answers to various probing questions to come up with a risk profile, which is later used by financial advisors (both human and virtual) to help shape an individual's portfolio asset allocation. This asset allocation will directly affect the risk in the portfolio, so it is important that it aligns well with the individual's risk profile.



A risk profile also illustrates the risks and threats faced by an organization. It may include the probability of resulting negative effects and an outline of the potential costs and level of disruption for each risk. It is in a corporation's best interest to be proactive when it comes to its risk management systems. Some risks can be minimized if they are properly accounted for. Corporations often create a compliance division to help in such endeavors. Compliance helps ensure that the corporation and its employees are following regulatory and ethical processes. Many companies hire independent auditors to help discover any risks so that they can be properly addressed before they become external issues.



Failing to minimize risk can lead to a negative consequence. For example, if a drug company does not properly test its new treatment through the proper channels, it may harm the public and lead to legal and monetary damages. Failing to minimize risk could also leave the company exposed to a falling stock price, lower revenues, a negative public image, and potential bankruptcy.
What Is Risk-Return Tradeoff?  

Risk-return tradeoff states that the potential return rises with an increase in risk. Using this principle, individuals associate low levels of uncertainty with low potential returns, and high levels of uncertainty or risk with high potential returns.



According to risk-return tradeoff, invested money can render higher profits only if the investor will accept a higher possibility of losses.





Key Takeaways

Risk-return tradeoff is an investment principle that indicates that the higher the risk, the higher the potential reward.To calculate an appropriate risk-return tradeoff, investors must consider many factors, including overall risk tolerance, the potential to replace lost funds, and more.Investors consider risk-return tradeoff on individual investments and across portfolios when making investment decisions.












Sydney Saporito / Investopedia


   Understanding Risk-Return Tradeoff  

Risk-return tradeoff is the trading principle that links high risk with high reward. The appropriate risk-return tradeoff depends on a variety of factors that include an investor’s risk tolerance, the investor’s years to retirement, and the potential to replace lost funds.



Time also plays an essential role in determining a portfolio with the appropriate levels of risk and reward. For example, if an investor has the ability to invest in equities over the long term, that provides the investor with the potential to recover from the risks of bear markets and participate in bull markets; on the other hand, if an investor can only invest in a short time frame, the same equities have a higher risk proposition.



Investors use risk-return tradeoff as one of the essential components of each investment decision, as well as to assess their portfolios as a whole. At the portfolio level, risk-return tradeoff can include assessments of the concentration or the diversity of holdings and whether the mix presents too much risk or a lower-than-desired potential for returns.






   Uses of Risk-Return Tradeoff  
  Measuring Singular Risk in Context  

When an investor considers high-risk, high-return investments, the investor can apply risk-return tradeoff to the vehicle on a singular basis as well as within the context of the portfolio as a whole. Examples of high-risk, high-return investments include options, penny stocks, and leveraged exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Generally speaking, a diversified portfolio reduces the risks presented by individual investment positions. For example, a penny stock position may have a high risk on a singular basis, but if it is the only position of its kind in a larger portfolio, then the risk incurred by holding the stock is minimal.


  Risk-Return Tradeoff at the Portfolio Level  

Risk-return tradeoff also exists at the portfolio level. For example, a portfolio composed of all equities presents both higher risk and higher potential returns. Within an all-equity portfolio, risk and reward can be increased by concentrating investments in specific sectors or by taking on single positions that represent a large percentage of holdings. For investors, assessing the cumulative risk-return tradeoff of all positions can provide insight on whether a portfolio assumes enough risk to achieve long-term return objectives or if the risk levels are too high with the existing mix of holdings.


   Calculating Risk-Return  
  Alpha Ratio  

When you want to determine excess returns on investment, use the alpha ratio, which refers to returns earned on investment above the benchmark return. In other words, it measures excess returns from the benchmark index. 



According to Investopedia, “Alpha, often considered the active return on an investment, gauges the performance of an investment against a market index or benchmark that is considered to represent the market’s movement as a whole.”



To calculate alpha in a simple way, subtract the total return of an investment from a comparable benchmark in its asset category. To take into account asset investments that are not completely similar, calculate alpha using Jensen’s alpha, which uses the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) as the benchmark.



Here’s an example of alpha: 



If a mutual fund has underperformed by 1% against its benchmark, it will have an alpha of -1.0. If a mutual fund has neither underperformed nor outperformed, it will have an alpha of zero because it will not have lost or gained value compared to the benchmark index. If a mutual fund has outperformed by 1%, it will have an alpha of +1.0. 


  Beta Ratio  

A beta calculation shows how correlated the stock is vs. a benchmark that determines the overall market, usually the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, or S&P 500. The S&P 500 is a market-capitalization-weighted index of 500 leading publicly traded companies in the United States.



To calculate beta, divide the variance (which is the measure of how the market moves relative to its mean) by the co-variance (which is the measure of a stock’s return relative to that of the market). 



Here’s an example of beta:



If a stock has a beta of 1%, it is highly correlated to the S&P 500. 
If a stock has a beta of zero, it is not very correlated to the S&P 500.
If a stock has a beta of -1%, it is inversely correlated—in other words, it has a contrary relationship—to the S&P 500.



Beta gives investors additional insight when they do further analysis and ask, “Is there a reason why a particular stock is underperforming or outperforming?” Beta can help answer that question when evaluating relative performance overall because it might help shed light on the reason why the stock outperforms or underperforms during certain times. 


  Sharpe Ratio  

A Sharpe ratio is helpful to determine whether the risk is worth the reward. It is used when comparing peers or ETFs that hold similar assets. 



The calculation for the Sharpe ratio is the adjusted return divided by the level of risk, or its standard deviation. 



According to Investopedia, “The Sharpe ratio’s numerator is the difference over time between realized, or expected, returns and a benchmark such as the risk-free rate of return or the performance of a particular investment category.”



Generally, when comparing similar portfolios, the higher the Sharpe ratio, the better because it shows an attractive risk-adjusted return, meaning the return after taking into account the degree of risk that was taken to achieve it.




Is it better to use the alpha, beta, or Sharpe ratio?
All three calculation methodologies will give investors different information. Alpha ratio is useful to determine excess returns on an investment. Beta ratio shows the correlation between the stock and the benchmark that determines the overall market, usually the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Sharpe ratio helps determine whether the investment risk is worth the reward.




How is risk-reward ratio calculated?
To calculate risk-reward ratio, take the expected return (reward) on the trade and divide by the amount of capital risked.




Do investments with higher risks yield better returns?
Not necessarily. The appropriate risk-return tradeoff depends on a variety of factors, including an investor’s risk tolerance, the investor’s years to retirement, and the potential to replace lost funds. Time also plays an essential role in determining a portfolio with the appropriate levels of risk and reward. According to risk-return tradeoff, invested money can render higher profits only if the investor is willing to accept a higher possibility of losses.


   The Bottom Line  

Risk-return tradeoff is the trading principle that links risk with reward. According to risk-return tradeoff, if the investor is willing to accept a higher possibility of losses, then invested money can render higher profits. To calculate investment risk, investors use alpha, beta, and Sharpe ratios.
What is a Risk Reversal?  

A risk reversal is a hedging strategy that protects a long or short position by using put and call options. This strategy protects against unfavorable price movements in the underlying position but limits the profits that can be made on that position. If an investor is long a stock, they could create a short risk reversal to hedge their position by buying a put option and selling a call option.



In foreign exchange (FX) trading, risk reversal is the difference in implied volatility between similar call and put options, which conveys market information used to make trading decisions. 


   Risk Reversal Explained  

Risk reversals, also known as protective collars, have a purpose to protect or hedge an underlying position using options. One option is bought and another is written. The bought option requires the trader to pay a premium, while the written option produces premium income for the trader. This income reduces the cost of the trade, or even produces a credit. While the written option reduces the cost of the trade (or produces a credit), it also limits the profit that can be made on the underlying position.


   Risk Reversal Mechanics  

If an investor is short an underlying asset, the investor hedges the position with a long risk reversal by purchasing a call option and writing a put option on the underlying instrument. If the price of the underlying asset rises, the call option will become more valuable, offsetting the loss on the short position. If the price drops, the trader will profit on their short position in the underlying, but only down to the strike price of the written put.



If an investor is long an underlying instrument, the investor shorts a risk reversal to hedge the position by writing a call and purchasing a put option on the underlying instrument. If the price of the underlying drops, the put option will increase in value, offsetting the loss in the underlying. If the price of the underlying rises, the underlying position will increase in value but only up to the strike price of the written call.


   Risk Reversal and Foreign Exchange Options  

A risk reversal in forex trading refers to the difference between the implied volatility of out of the money (OTM) calls and OTM puts. The greater the demand for an options contract, the greater its volatility and its price. A positive risk reversal means the volatility of calls is greater than the volatility of similar puts, which implies more market participants are betting on a rise in the currency than on a drop, and vice versa if the risk reversal is negative. Thus, risk reversals can be used to gauge positions in the FX market and convey information to make trading decisions.





Key Takeaways

A risk reversal hedges a long or short position using put and call options.A risk reversal protects against unfavorable price movement but limits gains.Holders of a long position short a risk reversal by writing a call option and purchasing a put option.Holders of a short position go long a risk reversal by purchasing a call option and writing a put option.FX traders refer to risk reversal as the difference in implied volatility between similar call and put options.


   Real World Example of a Risk Reversal  

Say Sean is long General Electric Company (GE) at $11 and wants to hedge his position, he could initiate a short risk reversal. Let’s assume the stock currently trades near $11. Sean could buy a $10 put option and sell a $12.50 call option.



Since the call option is OTM, the premium received will be less than the premium paid for the put option. Thus, the trade will result in a debit. Under this scenario, Sean is protected against any price moves below $10, because below this, the put option will offset further losses in the underlying. If the stock price rises, Sean only profits on the stock position up to $12.50, at which point the written call will offset any further gains in the General Electric’s share price.
What Is the Risk/Reward Ratio?  

The risk/reward ratio marks the prospective reward an investor can earn for every dollar they risk on an investment. Many investors use risk/reward ratios to compare the expected returns of an investment with the amount of risk they must undertake to earn these returns. A lower risk/return ratio is often preferable as it signals less risk for an equivalent potential gain.



Consider the following example: an investment with a risk-reward ratio of 1:7 suggests that an investor is willing to risk $1, for the prospect of earning $7. Alternatively, a risk/reward ratio of 1:3 signals that an investor should expect to invest $1, for the prospect of earning $3 on their investment.



Traders often use this approach to plan which trades to take, and the ratio is calculated by dividing the amount a trader stands to lose if the price of an asset moves in an unexpected direction (the risk) by the amount of profit the trader expects to have made when the position is closed (the reward).





Key Takeaways

The risk/reward ratio is used by traders and investors to manage their capital and risk of loss.The ratio helps assess the expected return and risk of a given trade.In general, the greater the risk, the greater the expected return demanded.An appropriate risk reward ratio tends to be anything greater than 1:3.


   How the Risk/Reward Ratio Works  

In many cases, market strategists find the ideal risk/reward ratio for their investments to be approximately 1:3, or three units of expected return for every one unit of additional risk. Investors can manage risk/reward more directly through the use of stop-loss orders and derivatives such as put options.



The risk/reward ratio is often used as a measure when trading individual stocks. The optimal risk/reward ratio differs widely among various trading strategies. Some trial-and-error methods are usually required to determine which ratio is best for a given trading strategy, and many investors have a pre-specified risk/reward ratio for their investments.



Note that the risk/return ratio can be computed as one's personal risk tolerance on an investment, or as the objective calculation of an investment's risk/return profile. In the latter case, expected return is often used in the denominator and potential loss in the numerator. Expected return can be computed in several ways, including projecting historical returns into the future, estimating the weighted probabilities of future outcomes, or using a model like the capital asset pricing model (CAPM).



To estimate the potential loss, investors may use a variety of methods, such as analyzing historical price data with technical analysis, using the historical standard deviation of price action, assessing company financial statements with fundamental analysis, and models like value-at-risk (VaR). These methods can help investors identify factors that could impact the investment's value and estimate the potential downside.






Estimating the expected return and potential loss is not an exact science, and the actual amount of risk and return may differ from your estimates. Investors should also consider their own risk tolerance when evaluating the potential risk of an investment, as the amount of risk they are willing to take on can vary depending on their personal circumstances and investment goals.


   What Does the Risk/Reward Ratio Tell You?  

The risk/reward ratio helps investors manage their risk of losing money on trades. Even if a trader has some profitable trades, they will lose money over time if their win rate is below 50%. The risk/reward ratio measures the difference between a trade entry point to a stop-loss and a sell or take-profit order. Comparing these two provides the ratio of profit to loss, or reward to risk.



Investors often use stop-loss orders when trading individual stocks to help minimize losses and directly manage their investments with a risk/reward focus. A stop-loss order is a trading trigger placed on a stock that automates the selling of the stock from a portfolio if the stock reaches a specified low. Investors can automatically set stop-loss orders through brokerage accounts and typically do not require exorbitant additional trading costs.






When the risk/return ratio is abnormally low, it could suggest that the potential gain is disproportionately large relative to the potential risk, which may indicate that the investment is riskier than it might appear. This is why some investors may approach investments with very high risk/return ratios with caution, as a high ratio alone does not guarantee a good investment.


   Example of the Risk/Reward Ratio in Use  

Consider this example: A trader purchases 100 shares of XYZ Company at $20 and places a stop-loss order at $15 to ensure that losses will not exceed $500. Also, assume that this trader believes that the price of XYZ will reach $30 in the next few months. In this case, the trader is willing to risk $5 per share to make an expected return of $10 per share after closing the position. Since the trader stands to make double the amount that they have risked, they would be said to have a 1:2 risk/reward ratio on that particular trade. Derivatives contracts such as put contracts, which give their owners the right to sell the underlying asset at a specified price, can be used to similar effect.



If an investor prefers to seek a 1:5 risk/reward ratio for a specified investment (five units of expected return for each additional unit of risk), then they can modify the stop-loss order and thus adjust the risk/reward ratio. But it is important to understand that by doing so the investor has changed the probability of success in their trade.



In the trading example noted above, suppose an investor set a stop-loss order at $18, instead of $15, and they continued to target a $30 profit-taking exit. By doing so they would certainly reduce the size of the potential loss (assuming no change to the number of shares), but they will have increased the likelihood that the price action will trigger their stop loss order. That's because the stop order is proportionally much closer to the entry than the target price is. So although the investor may stand to make a proportionally larger gain (compared to the potential loss), they have a lower probability of receiving this outcome.




How Do You Calculate the Risk/Return Ratio?
To calculate the risk/return ratio (also known as the risk-reward ratio), you need to divide the amount you stand to lose if your investment does not perform as expected (the risk) by the amount you stand to gain if it does (the reward).The formula for the risk/return ratio is:Risk/Return Ratio = Potential Loss / Potential Gain




Why Is the Risk/Return Ratio Important?
The risk/return ratio help investors assess whether a potential investment is worth making. A lower ratio means that the potential reward is greater than the potential risk, while a low ratio means the opposite. By understanding the risk/return ratio, investors can make more informed decisions about their investments and manage their risk more effectively.




Can the Risk/Return Ratio of an Investment Change Over Time?
Yes, the risk/return ratio can change over time as the investment's price moves its potential risk changes. For example, if a stock's price goes up, the potential reward may become less than when it was initially purchased, while the potential risk may have also increased.It's important to regularly monitor the risk/return ratio of your investments and adjust your portfolio accordingly to ensure that your investments align with your goals and risk tolerance.


   The Bottom Line  

The risk-reward ratio is a measure of potential profit to potential loss for a given investment or project. A higher risk-reward ratio is generally preferable because it offers the potential for a greater return on investment without undue risk-taking. A ratio that is too high indicates that an investment could be overly risky. However, a ratio that is too low should be met with suspicion. Investors should consider their risk tolerance and investment goals when determining the appropriate ratio for their portfolio. Diversifying investments, the use of protective put options, and using stop-loss orders can help optimize your risk-return profile.
What Is Risk Tolerance?  

Risk tolerance is the degree of risk that an investor is willing to endure given the volatility in the value of an investment. An important component in investing, risk tolerance often determines the type and amount of investments that an individual chooses.



Greater risk tolerance is often synonymous with investment in stocks, equity funds, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs), while lower risk tolerance is often associated with the purchase of bonds, bond funds, and income funds.





Key Takeaways

Risk tolerance is a measure of the degree of loss an investor is willing to endure within their portfolio.Stock volatility, market swings, economic or political events, and regulatory, or interest rate changes affect an investor's tolerance for risk.Age, investment goals, and income contribute to an investor's risk tolerance.An aggressive investor commonly has a higher risk tolerance and is willing to risk more money for the possibility of better, yet unknown, returns.A conservative investor commonly has a lower risk tolerance and seeks investments with guaranteed returns.


   Understanding Risk Tolerance  

All investments involve some degree of risk and knowing their risk tolerance level helps investors plan their entire portfolio, determining how they invest. Based on how much risk they can tolerate, investors are classified as aggressive, moderate, and conservative.



Risk tolerance assessments are available online, including risk-related surveys or questionnaires. An investor may also want to review historical returns for different asset classes to determine the volatility of the various financial instruments.



One factor that affects risk tolerance includes the time horizon for an investor. Having a financial goal with a long time horizon, an investor may have greater returns by carefully investing in higher-risk assets, such as stocks. Conversely, lower-risk cash investments may be appropriate for short-term financial goals.



An investor's future earning capacity, and the presence of other assets such as a home, pension, Social Security, or an inheritance affect risk tolerance. An investor can take greater risk with investable assets when they have other, more stable sources of funds available. Additionally, investors with a larger portfolio may be more tolerant to risk, as the percentage of loss is much less in a larger portfolio when compared to a smaller portfolio.





Tip

Order your copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine for more wealth-building advice.


   Aggressive Risk Tolerance  

An aggressive investor, or one with a high-risk tolerance, is willing to risk losing money to get potentially better results. Aggressive investors tend to be market-savvy with an understanding of the volatility of securities and follow strategies for achieving higher than average returns.



Their investments emphasize capital appreciation rather than income or preserving their principal investment. This investor's asset allocation commonly includes stocks and little or no allocation to bonds or cash.


   Moderate Risk Tolerance  

Moderate investors want to grow their money without losing too much. Their goal is to weigh opportunities and risks and this investor's approach is sometimes described as a “balanced” strategy.



Commonly, moderate investors develop a portfolio that includes a mixture of stocks and bonds, perhaps as a 50/50 or 60/40 structure.


   Conservative Risk Tolerance  

Conservative investors are willing to accept little to no volatility in their investment portfolios. Retirees or those close to retirement age are often included in this category as they may be unwilling to risk a loss to their principal investment and have a short-term investment strategy.



A conservative investor targets vehicles that are guaranteed and highly liquid. Risk-averse individuals commonly opt for bank certificates of deposit (CDs), money markets, or U.S. Treasuries for income and preservation of capital.




What Is an Example of a 60/40 Portfolio Structure?
A moderate risk-tolerant investor may choose to invest in a 60/40 structure which may include a 60% investment in stocks, 30% in bonds, and 10% in cash.




What Financial Instruments are Considered High Risk Investments?
High-risk investments include investing in options, initial public offerings (IPO), and foreign emerging markets.




How Does Risk Tolerance Compare to Risk Capacity?
While risk tolerance measures an investor's willingness to take risk, an investor's risk capacity measures their financial ability to take a risk.
What Are Risk-Weighted Assets?  

Risk-weighted assets are used to determine the minimum amount of capital a bank must hold in relation to the risk profile of its lending activities and other assets. This is done in order to reduce the risk of insolvency and protect depositors. The more risk a bank has, the more capital it needs on hand. The capital requirement is based on a risk assessment for each type of bank asset.



For example, a loan that is secured by a letter of credit is considered to be riskier than a mortgage loan that is secured with collateral and thus requires more capital.





Key Takeaways

Basel III, a set of international banking regulations, sets the guidelines around risk-weighted assets.Risk coefficients are determined based on the credit ratings of certain types of bank assets.Loans backed with collateral are considered to be less risky than others because the collateral is considered in addition to the source of repayment when calculating an asset's risk.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Risk-Weighted Assets  

The financial crisis of 2007 and 2008 was driven by financial institutions investing in subprime home mortgage loans that had a far higher risk of default than bank managers and regulators believed to be possible. When consumers started to default on their mortgages, many financial institutions lost large amounts of capital, and some became insolvent.



Basel III, a set of international banking regulations, set forth certain guidelines to avoid this problem moving forward. Regulators now insist that each bank must group its assets together by risk category so that the amount of required capital is matched with the risk level of each asset type. Basel III uses credit ratings of certain assets to establish their risk coefficients. The goal is to prevent banks from losing large amounts of capital when a particular asset class declines sharply in value.



There are many ways risk-weighted assets are used to calculate the solvency ratio of banks.






Bankers have to balance the potential rate of return on an asset category with the amount of capital they must maintain for the asset class.


   How to Assess Asset Risk  

Regulators consider several tools to assess the risk of a particular asset category. Since a large percentage of bank assets are loans, regulators consider both the source of loan repayment and the underlying value of the collateral.



A loan for a commercial building, for example, generates interest and principal payments based on lease income from tenants. If the building is not fully leased, the property may not generate sufficient income to repay the loan. Since the building serves as collateral for the loan, bank regulators also consider the market value of the building itself.



A U.S. Treasury bond, on the other hand, is secured by the ability of the federal government to generate taxes. These securities carry a higher credit rating, and holding these assets requires the bank to carry far less capital than a commercial loan. Under Basel III, U.S. government debt and securities are given a risk weight of 0%, while residential mortgages not guaranteed by the U.S. government are weighted anywhere from 35% to 200% depending on a risk assessment sliding scale.


   Special Considerations  

Bank managers are also responsible for using assets to generate a reasonable rate of return. In some cases, assets that carry more risk can also generate a higher return for the bank, because those assets generate a higher level of interest income to the lender. If the management creates a diverse portfolio of assets, the institution can generate a reasonable return on the assets and also meet the regulator’s capital requirements.




What Are Examples of Risk-Weighted Assets?
Examples of risk-weighted assets include government bonds and debentures. Banks have different assets that are classified by their risk weight, where lower-risk assets are assigned a lower risk weight.




What Is the RWA Ratio?
RWA stands for "risk-weighted asset" and it is used in the risk-adjusted capital ratio, which determines a financial institution's ability to continue operating in a financial downturn. The ratio is calculated by dividing a firm's total adjusted capital by its risk-weighted assets (RWA).




What Is a Tier 1 Asset?
Tier 1 assets, or Tier 1 capital, are the main assets of a financial institution. They consist of retained earnings (disclosed reserves) and common stock. It may also include some preferred stock. It is the capital used to fund the institution's business activities for its clients.


   The Bottom Line  

Risk-weighted assets are a risk management measure, indicating to banks the number of assets they need to hold in relation to their risk. They help reduce instability in the financial marketplace, particularly after the Great Recession.
What Is a Rival Good?  

A rival good is a type of product or service that can only be possessed or consumed by a single user. When a good is rival in consumption, it may be subject to strong demand and fierce competition—factors that tend to drive up prices.



These items can be durable, meaning they may only be used one at a time, or nondurable, meaning they are destroyed after consumption, allowing only one user to enjoy it. 





Key Takeaways

A rival good is a type of good that may only be possessed or consumed by a single user.Rival goods can be durable, meaning they may only be used one at a time, or nondurable, meaning they perish after consumption.When a good is rival in consumption, the resulting competition can increase its value to the individuals who seek them.Limited availability, coupled with demand, gives businesses that supply rival goods leeway to set prices higher.Common examples of rival goods include food, clothing, electronic goods, cars, plane tickets, and houses.


   Understanding Rival Goods  

Certain goods, such as a bottle of beer or designer t-shirt, are subject to consumption rivalry. If someone drinks the bottle or buys the t-shirt, it is no longer available for anybody else to consume.



Because these types of goods can only be used or occupied by one person, competition is created for their consumption. Consumers, therefore, become rivals in an attempt to obtain them.



How much competition there is, of course, depends on availability. If there are lots of the same bottles of beer on supermarket shelves, it's easy to procure another one, provided that thousands of other people aren't eager to buy them at that particular moment.



Conversely, if the designer t-shirt is of a limited edition, one-of-a-kind nature, it's possible that people engage in a price war and are willing to pay over the odds to get their hands on it. Competition for this type of rival good is also compounded by the availability of apparel in sizes that meet each consumer’s needs. Manufacturers might only produce limited quantities of products for certain sizes. As a result, consumers who require hard-to-find sizes must compete with each other to procure the items they need.






The COVID-19 pandemic led to a shortage in toilet paper, causing panic among households and some businesses to capitalize by hiking up prices for the consumer staple.



Common examples of rival goods include food, clothing, electronic goods, cars, plane tickets, and houses.


  Durable vs. Nondurable  

Sometimes, rival goods can be reused by somebody else at a later stage. For example, durable goods such as a skateboard might be sold after the current owner is finished with it.



A non-durable good, such as a cup of coffee or apple, does not fall into this category because it perishes after consumption. Only one consumer can drink the coffee or eat the apple. After it is gone, there will be nothing left to consume.


   Rival Goods vs. Non-Rival Goods  

Goods are either classified as rival or non-rival. A rival good is something that can only be possessed or consumed by a single user. A good that can be consumed or possessed by multiple users, on the other hand, is said to be a non-rival good.



The internet and radio stations are examples of goods that are nonrival. Many people can access them at the same time, and they can be consumed over and over again without impacting their quality or running the risk that supply will be depleted.


   Rival Goods vs. Non-Excludable Goods  

Non-excludable goods are public goods that cannot exclude a certain individual or group of individuals from using them. For this reason, it is nearly impossible to restrict access to the consumption of non-excludable goods. A public road is an example of a non-excludable good. Almost everyone has access to a public road, even if they are just walking on it (rather than driving a motorized vehicle).



The opposite of a non-excludable good is an excludable good, which is a good that some people are restricted from using. Excludable goods are private goods, while non-excludable goods are public goods. A rival good is a type of excludable good because it can only be possessed or consumed by a single user.






Procuring a rival good can impact their overall supply, potentially leading to price increases and a future lack of availability.


   Special Considerations  

The competitive nature of rival goods can increase their value to the individuals who seek them. This is especially true for the travel, hospitality, and entertainment industries. Goods that are rival in consumption can include seats on an airplane or for a Broadway performance. Likewise, they can include a reserved seat at a restaurant.



When demand is high for rival goods, businesses can exert more pricing power. Limited availability, coupled with demand, gives businesses leeway to set prices higher.



Demand for rival goods can drive concentrated retail sales during holiday periods as consumers race to procure items as gifts before they sell out, or while certain discounts are available. This type of shopping behavior has been used to retailers’ advantage, in particular during Black Friday sales events. For example, if a rival good is in high demand but has limited availability, retailers might advertise plans to offer it for sale specifically on Black Friday.


   Rival Good FAQs  
  What Are Club Goods, Public Goods, Private Goods, and Common Goods?  

In the field of economics, goods are defined based on excludability and rivalrousness in their consumption.



Club goods are excludable but non-rival. Cable television is an example of a club good because it can be consumed or possessed by multiple users at the same time but it is excludable—some people are restricted from watching cable television.



Public goods are non-excludable and non-rival. Examples of public goods are public parks and the air we breathe. Access to parks and air is not restricted and they can be consumed or possessed by multiple users.



Private goods are excludable and rival. Clothing is an example of a private good because some people are restricted from objects of clothing and an item of clothing can only be possessed or consumed by a single user at one time.



Common goods are non-excludable and rival. Examples of common goods are coal and timber because they can only be possessed or consumed by a single user at one time but access is not restricted.


  What Is the Free Rider Problem?  

The free-rider problem is a phenomenon of the conventional free-market system. It occurs when some members of a community fail to contribute their fair share to the costs of a shared resource. The free-rider problem creates a burden on a shared resource as a result of its use or overuse.


  Why Can Markets Only Provide Private Goods Efficiently?  

Markets can only provide private goods efficiently because of the free-rider problem. All goods that are non-excludable suffer from the free-rider problem because some individuals are unwilling to pay for their own consumption. Instead, they will take a "free ride" on anyone who does pay for the goods. When some people fail to contribute to the production of goods, it makes the resource economically infeasible to produce.
What Is a Roadshow?  

A roadshow is a series of presentations made in various locations leading up to an initial public offering (IPO). The roadshow is a sales pitch or promotion made by the underwriting firm and a company's management team to potential investors before going public. Roadshows generally take place in major cities and are meant to drum up interest in the upcoming offer. Potential investors are introduced to the company, its history, and its key personnel.






A roadshow is a series of presentations made in various locations leading up to an initial public offering.The roadshow is a sales pitch to potential investors by the underwriting firm and a company's executive management team.Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba's roadshow contributed to the overwhelming enthusiasm surrounding the company's IPO.


   Understanding Roadshows  

When a company decides to go public, the members of the investment firm responsible to underwrite or issue the IPO travel around the country in a roadshow to present the investment opportunity to potential investors. Most roadshows include stops in major cities like Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York City.



A successful roadshow is often critical to the success of the IPO. The goal of the roadshow is to generate excitement about the company and its IPO. By traveling to different cities, underwriters introduce the IPO to institutional investors, analysts, fund managers, and hedge funds to interest them in the security. The roadshow also provides an opportunity for the underwriters to introduce the company's management and for investors to hear management's vision and goals for the company.






The goal of the roadshow is to generate enthusiasm surrounding the company's upcoming IPO, which means the success of the IPO depends on a successful roadshow.



Roadshow events may attract hundreds of prospective buyers interested in learning more about the offering in a face-to-face setting and online. Events may include multimedia presentations and question-and-answer sessions. Many companies may hold smaller, private meetings in the months and weeks leading up to the IPO, while the majority livestream some of their events to those who can't attend. Some of the topics covered during a roadshow include the company’s history and any future plans. Other information may include:



A video or digital media presentation
Meeting the executive management
The unique value proposition of the company
Earnings and financial performance
Prior sales growth with projections and forecasts
The investment opportunity and growth potential
IPO stock price target



The roadshow is essential to the IPO since it provides a forum where the company can communicate directly with potential investors to address any concerns or highlight successes. The underwriters also use information gathered from investors to complete the book-building process, which involves gathering prices potential investors are willing to pay for the offering.



Once a roadshow is complete, the final prospectus is created and distributed to potential investors. This prospectus is also filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). An initial price for the offering is set based on the information gathered during the book-building process, and the IPO date is solidified.


   Special Considerations  

Not all roadshows involve an IPO. In fact, there are cases where companies travel across the country to talk to investors even when they aren't going public. These are called non-deal roadshows (NDRs). These roadshows occur when executives hold discussions with current and potential investors, but no equity or debt security is offered. NDRs are carried out to provide public information to investors, including updates on the company's existing business and vision for the future. NDRs involve meeting with key investors to keep them updated on how the company is performing.


   Example of a Roadshow  

Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group (BABA) posted the largest IPO ever by raising $25 billion in 2014 while the underwriters involved took home $300 million. The IPO was so successful that the stock price surged 38% in its debut. But enthusiasm for the IPO began well before the stock began trading. The roadshow included the financial numbers but also a video history of the company narrated by co-founder and Chair Jack Ma.



The roadshow was such a success with investors that it's likely the reason why the IPO price range was increased to $66 to $68 from the earlier published $60 to $66 range. Although the increase in the price range may not appear to be impressive, it's important to remember that the company sold over 300 million shares during its IPO.
What Is a Robber Baron?  

"Robber baron" is term used to describe America’s most successful industrialists. This derogative term was primarily used during the era of the late 19th century often known as the Gilded Age. The term robber baron is also sometimes used to describe any successful businessperson whose practices are considered unethical or unscrupulous. This behavior can include employee or environmental abuse, stock market manipulation, or deliberately restricting output to charge higher prices.





Key Takeaways

"Robber baron" is a term used frequently in the 19th century during America's Gilded Age to describe successful industrialists whose business practices were often considered ruthless or unethical.Included in the list of so-called robber barons are Andrew Carnegie, Cornelius Vanderbilt, and John D. Rockefeller.Robber barons were accused of being monopolists who earned profits by intentionally restricting the production of goods and then raising prices.On the other hand, some of the most famous of these tycoons became noted philanthropists later in life, giving away hundreds of millions of dollars to a variety of worthy causes.


   Understanding Robber Barons  

The first known uses of the phrase “robber baron” described feudal lords in medieval Europe who robbed travelers, often merchant ships along the Rhine River as they passed nearby. The term appeared in American newspapers in 1859. Its modern use stems from Matthew Josephson’s The Robber Barons.



Robber barons were widely despised and considered rapacious monopolists during their lifetimes. However, later biographies and historical reviews about the Gilded Age’s American robber barons cast a more complicated and favorable light.


   Robber Barons and Monopolies  

A chief complaint against the 19th-century capitalists was that they were monopolists. Fear over the robber barons and their monopoly practices increased public support for the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890.



Economic theory says a monopolist earns premium profits by restricting output and raising prices. This only occurs after the monopolist prices out or legally restricts any competitor firms in the industry. However, there is no historical evidence that natural monopolies formed before the Sherman Antitrust Act.



Many so-called robber barons—James J. Hill, Andrew Carnegie, Cornelius Vanderbilt, and John D. Rockefeller—became wealthy entrepreneurs through product innovation and business efficiency. Of the goods and services they provided, supply grew, and prices fell rapidly, greatly boosting Americans’ standards of living. This is the opposite of monopolistic behavior.






Andrew Carnegie gave over $350 million to charity during his lifetime, including over $56 million to build 2,509 public libraries around the world.


   Criticism of Robber Barons  

Among common criticisms of the early robber barons included poor working conditions for employees, selfishness, and greed. Some robber barons—including Robert Fulton, Edward K. Collins, and Leland Stanford—earned their wealth through political entrepreneurship.



Many wealthy railroad tycoons during the 1800s received privileged access and financing from the government via extensive use of lobbyists. They received monopolistic special licenses, per-mile subsidies, huge land grants, and low-interest loans.


   Special Considerations  

Working conditions in 19th century America were challenging, to say the least. While robber barons took advantage of their workers, they sometimes offered better working conditions than the norm of the day. Rockefeller and Ford, for example, paid higher-than-average wages, including bonuses for innovation or exceptional production. Managers often received long vacations at full pay.



Some tycoons rank among the most noted philanthropists of all time. Rockefeller donated around 10% of every paycheck he ever earned. He gave almost $550 million to charity and championed biomedical research, public sanitation, medical training, and educational opportunities for disadvantaged minorities.



Railroad tycoon James J. Hill publicized and provided free education about crop diversification, along with free seed grain, cattle, and wood to local communities. He would transport immigrants at reduced rates if they promised to farm near his railroads.
What Is the Robinson-Patman Act?  

The Robinson-Patman Act is a federal law passed in 1936 to outlaw price discrimination. The Robinson-Patman Act is an amendment to the 1914 Clayton Antitrust Act and is supposed to prevent "unfair" competition.





Key Takeaways

The Robinson-Patman Act is a federal law intended to prevent price discrimination.The law prevents distributors from charging different prices to various retailers.The act only applies to interstate trade and contains a specific exemption for "cooperative associations."The act has been widely criticized by economists and legal scholars on a variety of grounds.


   Understanding the Robinson-Patman Act  

The Robinson-Patman Act requires a business to sell its products at the same price regardless of who the buyer is. It was intended to prevent large-volume buyers from gaining an advantage over small-volume buyers. The act only applies to sales of tangible goods that are completed within a reasonably close timeframe and where the goods sold are similar in quality. The act does not apply to the provision of services such as cell phone service, cable television, and real estate leases.



The law came about to combat unfair trade practices that allowed chain stores to purchase goods at lower prices than other retailers. It was the first legislation to attempt to prevent price discrimination. It required that the seller offer the same price terms to customers at a given level of trade. The act instituted criminal penalties for violations but contained a specific exemption for "cooperative associations."



Enforcement and support for the law have faced challenges over the years because of the complexity of the Act and tensions between it, common business practices of price competition, and other aspects of antitrust law. Bowing to industry pressures, federal enforcement of the Robinson–Patman Act ceased for several years in the late 1960s. This left enforcement of the act up to private actions of individual plaintiffs against other businesses, which have always been difficult due to the complexity of understanding the law and its application. In the mid-1970s there was an unsuccessful attempt to repeal the Act. The Federal Trade Commission temporarily revived its use in the late 1980s. Enforcement has again declined since the 1990s.


   How the Robinson-Patman Act Works  

The Act generally prohibits sales that discriminate in price on the sale of goods to equally-situated distributors, when the effect of such sales is to reduce competition and may give favored customers an advantage in the market unrelated to their actual efficiency. Price refers to net price and includes all compensation paid, including compensation for advertising or other services. The also seller may not throw in additional goods or services to lower the effective price. Injured parties or the US government may bring action under the Act.



Charges may be brought on sales that involve:



Discrimination in price on at least two consummated sales from the same seller to two different purchasers.Sales must cross state lines.Sales must be contemporaneous of "commodities" of like grade and quality sold for "use, consumption, or resale" within the United States.The effect must be to "substantially to lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly in any line of commerce."


   A Hypothetical Example of the Robinson-Patman Act  

For example, the Robinson-Patman act requires that if Wholesale Company ABC sells two 32-inch flat-screen televisions of equal quality— one to Target on August 10 and one to Mom and Pop's Shop on August 11— both stores must be charged $250 per television. However, the act does not require that Wholesale Company ABC and Wholesale Company XYZ both sell 32-inch flat-screen televisions to all big-box retailers for $250 per television.


   Criticisms of the Robinson-Patman Act  

The Robinson-Patman Act has been widely criticized by economists and legal scholars. From nearly the beginning the Act was criticized as potentially anti-competitive itself and in tension with other aspects of antitrust law; as favoring the interests of some businesses over the interests of consumers; and, as a practical matter, highly subject to potential abuse. 



In that the Act raises potential legal consequences for charging lower prices, it always runs the danger of effectively punishing price competition, which is otherwise generally viewed as economically beneficial. Furthermore, because the practices outlawed by the act typically involve transactions between businesses rather than directly involving consumers and often involve business charging lower prices on larger volumes, it is often argued that it tends to favor the interest of higher-cost resellers who in turn charge higher prices over the interests of consumers who would benefit from lower retail prices. 



Finally, because charging different prices to different business customers is such a common practice among businesses in virtually all industries and because antitrust enforcement resources are necessarily limited and small relative to the size of the economy, prosecutors have to be highly selective in when and which cases to pursue or else rely on private civil actions to enforce the law. Either of these alternatives present a high potential for abusive suits under the law through capricious or politically motivated prosecutions or through civil actions motivated by opportunism rather than the economic welfare of society.
A robo-advisor (also sometimes spelled as roboadvisor) is a digital platform that provides automated, algorithm-driven financial planning and investment services with little to no human supervision. A typical robo-advisor asks questions about your financial situation and future goals through an online survey. It then uses the data to offer advice and automatically invest for you.



Other common designations for robo-advisors include "automated investment advisor," "automated investment management," and "digital advice platforms."



The best robo-advisors offer easy account setup, robust goal planning, account services, and portfolio management. Additionally, they offer security features, comprehensive education, and low fees.





Key Takeaways


Robo-advisors are digital platforms that provide automated, algorithmic investment services with minimal human supervision.
They often automate and optimize passive indexing strategies based on modern portfolio theory.
Robo-advisors are often inexpensive and require low opening balances, making them available to retail investors.
They are best suited for traditional investing and aren't the best options for more complex issues, such as estate planning.
Robo-advisors have been criticized for their lack of empathy and complexity.



   Robo-Advisors: History and Investing Strategy  

The first robo-advisors, Betterment and Wealthfront, launched in 2008. Wealthfront began as a mutual fund company. It planned to assist the tech community, then realized that computer software could make investment advice more accessible. Betterment, on the other hand, began with the initial purpose of rebalancing assets within target-date funds (TDFs). It sought to help manage passive, buy-and-hold investments through a simple online interface.



The technology was nothing new. Human wealth managers had been using automated portfolio allocation software since the early 2000s. But until Betterment and Wealthfront launched, wealth managers were the only ones who could buy the technology, so clients had to employ a financial advisor to benefit from the innovation.



Today, most robo-advisors use passive indexing strategies that are optimized using some variant of modern portfolio theory (MPT). Typically, the account holder can't choose which mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs) to invest in, or purchase individual stocks or bonds in their account.



Some robo-advisors offer optimized portfolios for socially responsible investing (SRI), halal investing, or tactical strategies that mimic hedge funds. They also can handle much more sophisticated tasks, such as tax-loss harvesting, investment selection, and retirement planning.


   Explosive Growth  

The industry has experienced explosive growth. Client assets managed by robo-advisors are expected to reach $3 trillion in 2023, and $5 trillion worldwide by 2027.





Note

As of December 2022, the largest robo-advisor by assets under management (AUM) was Vanguard Digital Advisor, with $140.7 billion.


   Portfolio Rebalancing  

The majority of robo-advisors use modern portfolio theory (or some variant) to build passive, indexed portfolios for their users.



Once portfolios are established, robo-advisors continue to monitor them to ensure that the optimal asset-class weightings are maintained, even after market moves. Robo-advisors achieve this by using rebalancing bands.


  Rebalancing Bands  

In rebalancing bands, every asset class, or individual security, is given a target weight and a corresponding tolerance range. For example, an allocation strategy might include the requirement to hold 30% in emerging market equities, 30% in domestic blue chips, and 40% in government bonds with a corridor of ±5% for each asset class.



The use of rebalancing bands means that, given the ±5% corridor, emerging market and domestic blue-chip holdings can fluctuate between 25% and 35%. Government bonds can fluctuate between 35% and 45%. When the weight of a holding moves outside of the allowable band, the entire portfolio is rebalanced to reflect the initial target composition.






In the past, this type of subtle rebalancing was frowned upon because it was time-consuming and generated transaction fees. However, low-fee robo-advisors are designed to handle rebalancing automatically.


  Tax-Loss Harvesting  

Another type of rebalancing commonly found with robo-advisors—made cost-effective through algorithms—is tax-loss harvesting. Tax-loss harvesting is a strategy that involves selling securities at a loss to offset a capital-gains tax liability.



This strategy is typically employed to limit the recognition of short-term capital gains. Robo-advisors do this by maintaining two or more stable ETFs for each asset class. So, if the S&P 500 ETF loses value, a robo-advisor will automatically sell it to lock in a capital loss; simultaneously, it buys a different S&P 500 ETF.



It's worth bearing in mind that the IRS wash-sale rule prevents investors from re-purchasing the same security or a security that is substantially identical within 30 days from its sell date. However, robo-investment platforms should have algorithms in place that incorporate rules like this.






Make sure your robo-advisor is programmed to select ETFs appropriately so that you avoid wash- sale violations.


   Benefits of Robo-Advisors vs. Traditional Financial Advisors  

The emergence of robo-advisors has broken down some of the traditional barriers between the financial services world and average consumers. Because of these online platforms, sound financial planning is now accessible to almost everyone, not just high-net-worth individuals.



Robo-advisors are low-cost alternatives to traditional advisors. By eliminating human labor, online platforms can offer the same services at a fraction of the cost.
Most robo-advisors charge annual flat fees of less than 0.4% per specific amount managed. That is much less than the typical 1% charged by a human financial planner (or more for commission-based accounts).
With robo-advisors, it's generally easier to keep tabs on investments. You can log in 24/7 as long as you have an internet connection.
It takes significantly less capital to start investing when using robo-advisors. One of the most popular robo-advisors, Betterment, has no account minimum for its basic account offering.
Robo-advisors are efficient. Before robo-advisors and online brokerage accounts, if you wanted to execute a trade, you'd have to call or meet with a financial advisor, explain your needs, and wait for them to execute your trades. Now, you can do all of that with the click of a few buttons in the comfort of your home.
Though using a robo-advisor may limit your investment options, this can be beneficial because buying individual stocks or trying to beat the market can produce poor results. On average, ordinary investors often see better results with an indexing strategy.






Some human advisors won't take on clients with less than $25,000, $50,000, or maybe even $100,000 in investable assets.


   Limitations of Robo-Advisors  

Many in the industry have doubts about the viability of digital advisors as a one-size-fits-all solution to wealth management.
Given their current technological capabilities and minimal human presence, robo-advisors have been criticized for lacking empathy and sophistication.
Robo-advisors are good entry-level options if you have a small account and limited investment experience. You may find them lacking if you need services like estate planning, complicated tax management, trust fund administration, and retirement planning.
Automated services are also ill-equipped to deal with unexpected crises or extraordinary situations. For example, robo-advisors won't know if you're between jobs or dealing with an unexpected expense—your funds could be drained unexpectedly by automatic withdrawals.
A study conducted by Investopedia and the Financial Planning Association found that consumers prefer a combination of human and technological guidance, especially when times are rough. According to the report, 40% of participants said they wouldn't be comfortable using an automated investing platform during extreme market volatility.
Robo-advisors operate on the assumption that you have defined goals and a clear understanding of your financial circumstances, investment concepts, and potential investment outcomes. For many investors, that is not the case.





Pros

Convenient, easy access
Lower cost, low starting capital
Investment experience not required
Straightforward index investing
Growing number of valuable services



Cons

Lacks human interaction
Limited investment opportunities
Investor must define financial situation and investment goals
One-size-approach not right for all
Uneven technology standards





   Hiring a Robo-Advisor  

Robo advisors don't all cost the same amount and offer all the same features. Each one may excel in particular areas, so it's important to do some research first. Dedicating a bit of time to finding the right one could turn out to be one of your smartest investments.






There are also hybrid robo-advisors, which essentially seek to combine the benefits of automated investment with human financial advice.



Opening a robo-advisor account usually entails completing a short, risk-profiling questionnaire and evaluating your financial situation, time horizon, and personal investment goals. In many cases, you will have the opportunity to link your bank account directly for quick and easy funding of your robo-advisory account.


   Target Demographic  

Many digital platforms target and attract certain demographics more than others. For robo-advisors, these include Millennial and Generation Z investors who are technology-savvy and still accumulating their investable assets.



This population is much more comfortable sharing personal information online and entrusting technology with essential tasks, such as wealth management. Indeed, the marketing efforts of robo-advisory firms typically employ social media channels to reach these investors.






The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a risk alert to investors in November 2021 regarding compliance issues with many robo-advisors. Be sure to stay informed of these and other issues by checking FINRA Investor Alerts and the SEC Division of Examination websites for information.


   Robo-Advisors and Regulation  

Robo-advisors hold the same legal status as human advisors. Accordingly, they must be registered with the SEC and are subject to the same securities laws and regulations as traditional broker-dealers.



Most robo-advisors are members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). You can use BrokerCheck to research robo-advisors in the same way that you would a human advisor.



Assets managed by robo-advisors aren't insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC). That's because they are securities held for investment purposes, not bank deposits.



However, this doesn't necessarily mean clients are unprotected. For example, Wealthfront is insured by the Securities Investor Protection Corp. (SIPC), meaning that if the company goes bust, investors will be reimbursed up to $500,000 of their invested balance. As you research robo-advisors, don't forget to check on the kind of insurance each has to protect your investment.


   How Robo-Advisors Get Paid  

The primary way that most robo-advisors get paid is through a wrap fee based on assets under management (AUM). While traditional (human) financial advisors typically charge 1% or more of AUM per year, many robo-advisors charge around 0.3% of AUM per year.



Another revenue stream is payment for order flow (PFOF). This payment (typically fractions of a penny per share) results from directing trade orders to a particular market maker. PFOF can potentially result in better execution prices for clients. Typically, robo-advisors bundle various trade orders together into large block orders executed just one or two times a day.



Finally, robo-advisors can earn money by marketing targeted financial products and services to their customers, such as mortgages, credit cards, or insurance policies. This is often done through strategic partnerships rather than advertising networks.






If the costs of your robo-advisor outweigh returns on your investments, then you may be better off not using one.


   The Best-in-Class Robo-Advisors  

There are hundreds of robo-advisors available in the U.S. and worldwide. More of them launch every year. They all provide some combination of investment management, retirement planning, and general financial advice.



Here's a look at our list of the best robo-advisors. See how we picked them by reading our methodology.












Best Robo-Advisors of 2023


Robo-Advisor
 Key Features
Fees
Account Minimum 
 Investopedia Rating




Wealthfront Best Overall / Best for Goal Planning / Best for Portfolio Management / Best for Portfolio Construction
Sophisticated financial planning, customized portfolios, up to $1 million FDIC insurance, mobile app on par with desktop version
0.25% for most accounts, no trading commission or fees for withdrawals, minimums, or transfers; 0.42%–0.46% for 529 plans
$500
4.9/5


Betterment Best for Beginners / Best for Cash Management
Robust cash management features, customizable asset allocation, create multiple goals, scenario test goals, sync outside accounts
0.25% (annual) for investing plan accounts with at least $20,000 or at least $250 per month in recurring account deposits; otherwise, $4/month
$0, $10 to start investing
4.6/5


M1 Finance Best for Low Costs / Best for Sophisticated Investors / Best for SRI 
Low-cost, customizable portfolios; huge list of prebuilt portfolios; borrow and spend options
0%
$100 ($500 minimum for retirement accounts)
4.3/5


Merrill Guided Investing Best for Education
Easy to navigate,  superb goal-planning tools and calculators, Preferred Rewards help customers reduce fees, financial experts create and manage portfolios, and excellent customer service
0.45% of assets under management; 0.85% with advisor; discounts available for Bank of America Preferred Rewards participants
$1,000
4.6/5


E*TRADE Best for Mobile
Best for newer or mobile-first investors, socially responsible investing options
0.30%
$500
4.1/5













When evaluating a robo-advisor, pay attention to what it invests in, as some are now moving away from passive index strategies and investing in more risky areas that could underperform the market.




What Does a Robo-Advisor Do?
Robo-advisors provide financial planning services through automated algorithms with no human intervention. They start by gathering information from a client through an online survey and then automatically invest for the client based on that data. Robo-advisors often use passive index investing strategies.




Can Robo-Advisors Make You Money?
Yes, you can make money with a robo-advisor, as you can with any other financial advisor.




Can You Lose Money With Robo-Advisors?
Yes, you can lose money with robo-advisors if investments lose value or costs outpace portfolio returns.




Do Robo-Advisors Beat the Market?
Most robo-advisors won't beat the market. That's because their investing involves a passive index strategy that seeks only to replicate the market's return. Typically, robo-advisor investing is based on modern portfolio theory, which relates to constructing a portfolio that maximizes return within an acceptable level of risk.


   The Bottom Line  

Robo-advisors leverage advances in algorithmic trading and electronic markets to automate investment strategies for ordinary investors.



Often based on modern portfolio theory, robo-advisors are able to optimize investors' risk-return tradeoffs and automatically manage and rebalance their portfolios. Automation also allows for tax-loss harvesting and other strategies that were once too complex or expensive for ordinary investors.



With low fees and small minimum balances required to get started, robo-advisors may be a good choice for most long-term investors and may be especially attractive to younger, tech-forward individuals.
What Is Robotic Process Automation (RPA)?  

Robotic process automation (RPA) occurs when basic tasks are automated through software or hardware systems that function across a variety of applications, just as human workers do. This can greatly reduce labor costs and increase efficiency by speeding things up and greatly minimizing human error.



The software or robot can be taught a workflow with multiple steps and applications, such as taking received forms, sending a receipt message, checking the form for completeness, filing the form in a folder, and updating a spreadsheet with the name of the form, the date filed, and so on. RPA software is designed to reduce the burden for employees of completing repetitive, simple tasks.





key takeaways

Robotic process automation (RPA) refers to software that can be easily programmed to do basic, repetitive tasks across applications.RPA creates and deploys a software robot with the ability to launch and operate other software.Designed primarily for office-type functions, RPA works like a digital assistant, doing routine onerous tasks that would otherwise eat up employees' time.RPA today is found across a range of industries and applications.RPA without human oversight, however, can lead to problems, as was the case with mortgage "robo-signers."


   Understanding Robotic Process Automation  

Robotic process automation (RPA) is designed to help primarily with office-type functions that often require the ability to do several types of tasks in a specific order. It creates and deploys a software robot with the ability to launch and operate other software. In a sense, the basic concept is similar to traditional manufacturing automation, which focuses on taking one portion of a workflow—or even just one task—and creating a robot to specialize in doing it.



Office work often requires the same sort of repetitive effort, but since it is data being manipulated across platforms and applications, a physical robot is not necessary.






While automation is often sought by companies to streamline processes and cut labor costs, there have been some instances where automation has gone awry.


   Benefits of Robotic Process Automation (RPA)  

The software used in process automation is programmed to do the tasks in a particular workflow by the employees with minimal assistance from human workers. The software doesn’t learn on its own or seek to tweak out new efficiencies or new insights like big data analysis or enterprise resource management (ERM) software. Instead, RPA works like a digital assistant for employees by clearing the onerous, simple tasks that eat up part of every office worker’s day.



As such, RPA is a simpler product than an artificial intelligence-driven system or enterprise software that seeks to bring all data inside the platform. This also makes it a relatively cheaper product than AI or ERM software. This simplicity and relative cheapness can make RPA a more attractive solution for many companies, particularly if the company has legacy systems. Robotic process automation is designed to be compatible with most legacy applications, making it easier to implement compared to other enterprise automation solutions.





$600 billion

Industry research suggests that the global RPA market will grow to nearly $600 billion in 2022.


   Where Can RPA Be Applied?  

RPA is quite common in the financial services industry. With increasing compliance and regulatory filing requirements, the finance industry—banks, insurers, and investment management companies—has been an early adopter of RPA. Many onerous back-office functions, such as ensuring an up-to-date Know Your Client (KYC) form is filed or a recent credit check is included on a loan application, are ideal for RPA. Removing this burden from employees allows them to focus on high-return tasks. More importantly, the software can clear these basic filing and data manipulation functions faster than humans, reducing the overall processing time.



Of course, RPA is not just limited to finance. Any industry that deals in data and filing can benefit from robotic process automation. When software can reduce costs and increase efficiency without requiring an onerous and complex implementation, it will find eager users and useful applications in almost any sector. Indeed, RPA has also been found useful in the following fields:



Customer service and CRMAccountingHealthcareHuman resourcesSupply chain management


   Challenges for RPA  

RPA does, however, have its drawbacks. These systems can be expensive to customize and deploy, and may not be suitable for more complex tasks that require some degree of human judgment or creativity.



RPA systems, when unchecked, can also go awry. One example is the case of so-called "robo-signers" used in the mortgage industry. These systems rubber-stamped foreclosure documents on homeowners automatically, even when a foreclosure was questionable or avoidable. Moreover, this practice failed to meet government regulations for oversight of the foreclosure process in the mid-2010s, leading to a scandal following the housing market bubble of the 2008-09 financial crisis. Following the public exposure of robo-signers, foreclosure documents had to be manually reexamined, and the companies involved faced disciplinary action.




What Is the Goal of Robotic Process Automation (RPA)?
RPA is meant to automate and streamline certain redundant clerical processes for an organization using software or related technologies. This is meant to reduce costs while also increasing efficiency.




Does Robotic Process Automation Require Coding?
RPA systems are often tailor-made to suit the specific needs of a particular organization or firm. Therefore, RPA must be coded in accordance with the specifications and application of an individual company or process. This can make development more time-consuming and expensive than other types of automation that are more turnkey.




Is Robotic Process Automation a Good Career?
While RPA can reduce labor costs overall, those developing RPA systems remain in high demand. These include roles that range from software developers to product managers and business analysts.




What Are the Two Main Types of Robotic Process Automation?
Traditional RPA relies on hard-coding routine tasks for automation. This is still the most common form of RPA today. More and more, however, machine learning and AI techniques are being merged with RPA to allow it to do more sophisticated tasks, such as recognizing images, text, or speech; or to analyze unstructured data sets.
What Does Robust Mean?  

In the world of investing, robust is a characteristic describing a model's, test's, or system's ability to perform effectively while its variables or assumptions are altered. A robust concept will operate without failure and produce positive results under a variety of conditions.



For statistics, a test is robust if it still provides insight into a problem despite having its assumptions altered or violated. In economics, robustness is attributed to financial markets that continue to perform despite alterations in market conditions. In general, a system is robust if it can handle variability and remain effective.


   Understanding Robust  

Financial models are an integral part of running a corporation. From the corporate executives of large multinational corporations to the franchise owner of the local burger restaurant, decision-makers need timely information presented to them in a model form that best reflects the activities of the business. Investors also use financial models to analyze and forecast the value of corporations to determine if they are viable prospective investments.





Key Takeaways

Robust models deliver positive results despite changing market conditions.In business, models are often used to focus on a company's fundamentals, like revenues and earnings.Financial models are used in portfolio management, building trading systems, and to calculate the value of derivative contracts.If a trading system does not deliver positive results over different time frames or during changing market conditions, it is not robust.


   Business Financial Models  

Business financial models focus mainly on the fundamentals of a corporation or business, such as revenues, costs, profits, and other financial ratios. A model is considered to be robust if its output and forecasts are consistently accurate even if one or more of the input variables or assumptions are drastically changed due to unforeseen circumstances. For example, a specific cost variable may sharply increase due to a severe decrease in supply resulting from a natural disaster.



Another commonly unforeseen circumstance is when war erupts between major countries. Many financial variables can be impacted due to war, which causes models that are not robust to function erratically. A robust model will continue to provide executives and managers with effective decision-making tools, and investors with accurate information on which to base their investment decisions.


   Robust Trading Models  

While investors analyze a corporation’s fundamental data in order to find securities that are priced below market value and are therefore perceived to be a good investment, traders analyze a security’s price data using technical analysis to forecast price movements that result from disparities in the security’s supply and demand of the moment.



Traders that use computerized trading systems to analyze and trade markets using technical analysis do so by developing, testing, and optimizing statistical models based on the application of technical indicators to the price data of a security. This is typically done by looking at historical or past price data, along with market indicators, and identifying situations that have high probabilities of success in the future.



A trading model is considered robust if it is consistently profitable regardless of market direction. Very often, a trading model will function well in a specific market condition or time period. However, when market conditions change, or the model is applied to another time period or the future, the model fails horribly, and losses are realized. This is usually a sign that a trading model is not robust.
What Is a Rogue Trader?  

A rogue trader is a trader who acts recklessly and independently of others, usually to the detriment of the institution that employs the trader and perhaps clients. Rogue traders typically play with high-risk investments that can produce huge losses or gains.



Rogue traders, though, are only labeled as such if they lose, which generates incentives that create moral hazard. If their trades are enormously profitable, no one calls them "rogue", and in fact they are more likely to receive a huge bonus - but if they're risky bets lose they are rogue and can cost the firm millions or even billions of dollars in losses.





Key Takeaways

A rogue trader is an employee of a financial firm who engages in unauthorized, often high-risk activities that result in large losses for the firm.Rogue traders often try to hide losses after making risky bets since there is a moral hazard situation: if the bet pays off they can earn huge bonuses, if it fails they'll only get fired.Famous examples of rogue traders exist, some of which have lost billions of dollars and even brought down otherwise large and stable banks or brokerages.


   Rogue Traders Explained  

Banks over the years have developed sophisticated Value-at-Risk (VaR) models to control the trading of instruments — which desks can trade them, when they can trade them, and how much in a given period. In particular, the limit of a trade is carefully set and monitored, not only to protect the bank but also to satisfy regulators. Internal controls, however, are not 100% foolproof. A determined trader can find a way to circumvent the system to try to reap outsized gains.



Often they are caught in bad trades and then forced by regulators to be publicly exposed — to the embarrassment of the bank. One has to wonder how many small-time rogue traders are quietly fired by a bank because the bank does not want the negative publicity that comes with news that internal trading controls were not properly developed or implemented.


   Examples of Rogue Traders  

Among the most notorious rogue traders in recent years is Nick Leeson, a former derivatives trader at the Singapore office of Britain's Barings Bank. In 1995, Leeson incurred heavy losses through the unauthorized trading of large amounts of Nikkei futures and options. Leeson took large derivative positions on the Nikkei that leveraged the amount of money at stake in the trades.



At one point, Leeson had 20,000 futures contracts worth more than $3 billion on the Nikkei. A large chunk of the losses came from the downturn in the Nikkei after a major earthquake in Japan caused a broad-based sell-off in the Nikkei within a week. The total loss to the 233-year-old Barings Bank was well over $1 billion and eventually led to its bankruptcy. Leeson was charged with fraud and served several years in a Singapore prison.



More recent examples include Bruno Iksil, the "London Whale" who racked up $6.2 billion in losses in 2012 at JP Morgan, and Jerome Kerviel, who was partly or wholly responsible for more than $7 billion in losses at Société Générale in 2007. JP Morgan CEO Jaime Dimon was slow to realize the magnitude of the "London Whale" losses, first calling the incident "a tempest in a teapot." Later, to his chagrin, he had to admit the truth about his bank's rogue trader.
What Is a Roll Back?  

A roll back, or roll backward, refers to a derivatives trading strategy that replaces an existing position with a new one that has a nearer expiration date. Aside from the contract's expiration date, other details are often not changed. For instance, a trader may roll back a September at-the-money call position to a June position with the same strike price.



Traders use this strategy to cut out market risk and volatility in the short or long term. Option roll strategies, sometimes called jelly rolls, can take various forms including roll back, roll forward, roll up, and roll down.





Key Takeaways

A roll back involves exiting an existing derivatives position in order to replace it with a similar position but with a closer maturity date.A roll back can be employed with either call or put options and is used to increase the long or short gamma exposure in an options position.Other roll strategies include roll forward, roll up, and roll down. Roll backs can reduce risk, limit losses, and save on transaction costs.


   How a Roll Back Works  

A roll back is one of many options trading strategies available to traders and one of many that is labeled as a roll. A roll back may also be called a roll backward. This strategy rolls from one options position to a new one with a more near-term expiration date.



The roll back component of the transaction requires that the expiration month be closer than the previous position. Other aspects of the contract, primarily the strike price, can change or stay the same.



Most roll backs occur as either all puts or all calls. But a trader could potentially switch from one to the other. In all types of roll backs, the option owner sells their options contract in the open market to close the position, then uses the proceeds to roll into the new, shorter-term position.



A roll back is used to increase the long or short gamma exposure in an options position, where an option's gamma is its sensitivity in its delta to changes in the underlying price. A trader would want to increase a long gamma position if they believe the underlying will be quite volatile in the near term, while they would prefer to increase a short gamma position if they believe that the underlying price will remain constant and stable.






Gamma is the rate of change between an option's delta and the underlying asset's price. The option's delta is the rate of change between its price and a $1 change in the underlying asset's price.


  Call Roll Back  

Traders use a roll back to take advantage of changing market conditions or to revise positions that they no longer see as profitable. Call positions rolled back with higher strike prices are also considered a roll up or a roll back and up. Call positions rolled back with a lower strike price are considered a roll down or a roll back and down. Options with the same strike are just considered a roll back and focus only on the expiration date.


  Put Roll Back  

A put roll back will roll one put to another with a closer expiration. The trader can use the proceeds from the sale to buy a new put contract with a selling strike price that is higher, lower, or the same as the previous position. Changing the strike price would also incorporate a roll up or roll down. With a put roll back, the investor believes there will be greater profit from the contract in the near term.


   Example of a Roll Back  

Here are a couple of examples to show how the roll back process works with both a call and a put. Remember, a call gives a trader the right (but not the obligation) to purchase a security by a specific date at a specific price while a put gives the owner the right (but not the obligation) to sell the security by a specific date at a specific price.



Let's say a trader has an October 50 call and wants to execute a roll back. They do so by swapping it out for a September 50 call. This trader may believe that the former October call is no longer worth owning and the September call is a better bet. If the investor is bearish on the stock, they may do a roll back and down with a September 45.



Here's how it works with a put. Let's say this trader purchases the September 50 contract and decides that they'd be better off selling this contract for one with a closer expiration date. They use the proceeds from the sale of the contract to purchase one at the same position for the month of August.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Roll Backs  
  Advantages  

As mentioned above, options contracts are a hedge against risk and volatility. Traders can take advantage of rolling back on their options contracts in order to reduce market risk, which can put the investor's entire investment in jeopardy.



By cutting back on the risks, roll backs also allow traders to cut down on losses and lock in their profits. That's because this strategy gives them the option to agree on a fixed price for the underlying security with the other party to be purchased or sold by a specified date.



Traders can also save on transaction costs. Trading options contracts, including the execution of roll backs, means the trader puts down a lower cost at the onset of the contract (including commissions) rather than purchasing the underlying security individually. And commissions are generally lower, as traders may have to pay one fee to swap out contracts.


  Disadvantages  

Options trading of any kind requires a lot of experience. You need to have a good understanding of all the risks involved and the potential for losses that may come your way. In short, this kind of trading isn't for novice investors. As such, the firm you work with—the one that handles your accounts—will need to ensure you are experienced enough to execute these trades and strategies, including roll backs.



Speculation plays a big part in options trading. Traders use a variety of techniques to map out which direction their investments will head toward, which means it's never an exact science. You do risk boosting your losses as you try to chase profits if your strategy doesn't work out.



Your brokerage or financial firm may want you to set up a margin account in order for you to trade options contracts. And there may be a minimum balance requirement in order to set this up. This can increase your costs, as it can add interest charges, account fees, not to mention increasing how much you originally intended to invest in the first place.





Pros

Reduces market risks and volatility
Limit losses and lock in profits
Save on transaction costs and fees



Cons

You need to be experienced in order to take advantage of roll back strategies
Speculation can lead to more losses
You may need to set up a margin account, which could increase your costs





   Other Option Roll Strategies  

Traders have many strategies available to them when they want to exit or enter options contracts. Roll backs are one of those options. These strategies involve exiting one contract and entering a new one in the same class. While some details of the contract may or may not change, one definite is that the expiration date in the new position is always earlier.



Rolling strategies help option traders to lock in profits, limit losses, and reduce risk. Investors typically roll contracts because the contract they seek to close is far out of the money.



Using the following roll strategies can help an investor to increase their profit potential and capitalize on market changes:



Option roll up: Traders move from one option contract on an underlying security to another on the same security with a higher price.
Option roll down: Traders move from one option contract on an underlying security to another on the same security with a lower price.
Roll forward: A roll forward is the opposite of a roll back. In this trade, a trader moves from one option contract on an underlying security to another on the same security with a longer-term expiration. This is often used by traders who want to extend their position.


   Roll Back FAQs  


Can You Buy Back an Option You Sold?
Once you sell your option, you generally can't buy it back. But there is a way to eliminate your short position. You can do this by buying a call option with similar details for the same underlying asset, including the strike price and expiry date.




Does Rolling Options Count as a Day Trade?
A day trade is any trade, whether that's buying or selling, that takes place within a single day. Options may count as day trades. But they tend to count as single trades because they are held in one contract.




What Does It Mean to Roll Out of an Option?
Rolling out of an option means that you close and open a position in an options contract at the same time. Roll backs happen when an investor exits a contract with a long-term expiration date and takes a position in one with a shorter-term date.
What Is a Roll-Down Return?  

A roll-down return is a strategy for maximizing a bond's overall yield by exploiting the yield curve. It is dependant on the fact that the value of a bond converges to par as its maturity date approaches.



The size of the roll-down return varies greatly between long- and short-term dated bonds. Roll-down is smaller for long-dated bonds that are trading away from par compared to short-dated bonds.





Key Takeaways

A roll-down return is a bond trading method for selling a bond as it is getting close to its maturity date when the initial higher interest rate of the long-term bond has declined.The values of bonds in the secondary market fluctuate as interest rates go up or down.Generally, a bond's market value gets closer to its face value as its maturity date gets closer.Using the roll-down can allow for the highest overall return based on the yield curve.


   Understanding a Roll-Down Return  

A bond investor may calculate the return on a bond in several ways. The yield to maturity (YTM) is the rate of return that will be earned if the bond is held until it reaches its maturity date. The current yield is the total in coupon payments owed on the bond at the time it is purchased. The roll-down return is yet another method of evaluating a bond’s earnings.



The roll-down return depends on the shape of the yield curve, which is a graphical representation of the yields for a variety of maturities ranging from one month to 30 years. Assuming that the yield curve is normal, that is upward sloping to the right, the rate earned on longer-term bonds will be higher than the yield earned from short-term bonds.


   How the Roll-Down Return Works  

The roll-down return is, essentially, a bond trading strategy for selling a bond as it approaches its maturity date. As time goes by, a bond's yield falls, and its price rises. Bond investors perceive greater risk in lending money for a longer time period and therefore demand higher interest payments as compensation. So, the initial higher interest rate of the long-term bond will decline as its maturity approaches.






The direction of the roll-down depends on whether the bond is trading at a premium or a discount to its face, or par, value.



In general, as its maturity date grows closer, a bond's interest rate moves closer to zero. Since there is an inverse relationship between bond yields and prices, bond prices increase as interest rates decrease.


   Example of a Roll-Down Return  

For example, assume a 10-year Treasury yield is 2.46% and a seven-year yield is 2.28%. After three years, the 10-year bond will become a seven-year bond.



Because the difference in yield between the 10-year and 7-year is 2.46% - 2.28% = 0.18%, the seven-year bond can rise 0.18% over three years before exceeding the investor’s yield to maturity, that is, 2.46%.



Assuming that interest rates stay the same, this positive roll means that the price of the bond will go up as time passes. The roll-down return is the amount that interest rates can rise over a specified time period before the current yield exceeds an investor’s YTM. The investor who sells the bond will get more than they paid for it, in addition to the coupon payments that have already been received.



In effect, the investor is earning money by rolling down the yield curve.



Roll-down return works in two ways. The direction depends on whether the bond is trading at a premium or at a discount to its face value.



If the bond is trading at a discount, the roll-down effect will be positive. This means the roll-down will pull the price up towards par. If the bond is trading at a premium the opposite will occur. The roll-down return will be negative and pull the price of the bond down back to par.
What Is Roll Forward?  

Roll forward refers to extending the expiration or maturity of an option, futures contract, or forward by closing the initial contract and opening a new longer-term contract for the same underlying asset at the then-current market price. A roll forward enables the trader to maintain the position beyond the initial expiration of the contract, since options and futures contracts have finite expiration dates. It is usually carried out shortly before the expiration of the initial contract and requires that the gain or loss on the original contract be settled.


   Basics of Roll Forward  

A roll forward includes two steps. First, the initial contract is exited. Then, a new position with a later expiry is initiated. These two steps are usually executed simultaneously in order to reduce slippage or profit erosion due to a change in the price of the underlying asset.



The roll forward procedure varies for different financial instruments.





Key Takeaways

Roll forward refers to the extension of a derivatives contract by closing out a soon-to-expire contract and opening another one at the current market price for the same underlying asset with a future closing date.Commonly used derivatives in roll-forwards are options, futures contracts, and forwards.


   Options  

A roll forward can be done using the same strike price for the new contract as the old one, or a new strike can be set. If the new contract has a higher strike price than the initial contract, the strategy is called a "roll up," but if the new contract has a lower strike price, it is called a "roll down." These strategies may be used to protect profits or hedge against losses.



For example, consider a trader who has a call option expiring in June with a $10 strike price on Widget Company. The stock is trading at $12. As the call option nears expiration, if the trader remains bullish on Widget Company, they can choose to maintain their investment stance and protect profits by either selling the June call option or by simultaneously buying a call option expiring in September with a strike price of $12. This "roll up" to a higher strike price will reduce the premium paid for the second option (compared to buying a new $10 strike call), thereby protecting part of the profits from the first trade.


   Forwards  

Forward foreign exchange contracts are usually rolled forward when the maturity date becomes the spot date. For example, if an investor has bought euros versus the U.S. dollar at 1.0500 for value on June 30, the contract would be rolled on June 28 by entering into a swap. If the spot rate in the market is 1.1050, the investor would sell the same number of euros at that rate and receive the profit in dollars on June 30.



The euros would net to zero with no movement of funds. The investor would simultaneously enter into a new forward contract to buy the same amount of euros for the new forward value date; the rate would be the same 1.1050 spot rate plus or minus the forward points to the new value date.


   Futures  

A futures position must be closed out either before the First Notice Day, in the case of physically delivered contracts, or before the Last Trading Day, in the case of cash-settled contracts. The contract is usually closed for cash, and the investor simultaneously enters into the same futures contract trade with a later expiry date.



For example, if a trader is long a crude oil future at $110 with a June expiry, they would close this trade before it expires and then enter into a new crude oil contract at the current market rate that expires at a later date.






Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Roll Yield?  

Roll yield is the amount of return generated in the futures market after an investor rolls a short-term contract into a longer-term contract and profits from the convergence of the futures price toward a higher spot or cash price. Roll yield is positive when a futures market is in backwardation, which occurs when a futures contract trades at a higher price as it approaches expiration, compared to when the contract is further away from expiration.


   Understanding Roll Yield  

Roll yield is a profit that can be generated when investing in the futures market due to the price difference between futures contracts with different expiration dates. When investors purchase futures, they have both the right and the obligation to buy the asset underlying the futures investment at a specified date in the future, unless they sell their position (to offset the long futures position) ahead of the delivery date.





Key Takeaways

Roll yield is the return from adjusting a futures position from one futures contract to a longer-dated contract.Positive roll yield exists when a futures market is in backwardation, which occurs when the short-term contracts trade at a premium to longer-dated contracts.When the market is in contango, the longer-term contracts are more expensive than short-term contracts and roll yield will be negative.



Most futures investors do not want to take delivery of the physical asset that the futures investment represents, so they close the position before expiration or roll their near-term expiring futures investments into other futures contracts with expiration dates further in the future. Rolling the position allows the investor to maintain their investments in the assets without having to take physical delivery.


   Backwardation vs. Contango  

When the market is in backwardation, the future price of an asset is below the expected cash or spot price. In this case, an investor profits when the position is rolled to the contract with a later expiration date because the investor is effectively paying less money than expected by the spot market for the underlying asset that the futures investment represents.



For example, imagine that an investor holds 100 crude oil contracts and wants to buy 100 again for expiration at a later date. If the contract's future price is below the spot price, the investor is actually rolling into the same quantity of an asset for a lower price.



Negative roll yield occurs when a market is in contango, which is the opposite of backwardation. When a market is in contango, the future price of the asset is above the expected future spot price, and so the investor will lose money when rolling contracts.



Returning to the example of an investor with 100 oil contracts, if the investor wants to roll into 100 oil contracts with a later expiration date as the contract nears expiration, the investor will pay more money for the oil contracts compared to the spot market. They would, therefore, have to pay more money to maintain the same number of contracts. Negative roll yields have sometimes led to significant losses by hedge funds and exchange traded funds that hold futures.
What Are Rolling Returns?  

Rolling returns, also known as "rolling period returns" or "rolling time periods," are annualized average returns for a period, ending with the listed year. Rolling returns are useful for examining the behavior of returns for holding periods, similar to those actually experienced by investors.



Looking at a portfolio or fund’s rolling returns will give performance results that are smoothed over several periods throughout its history. Such information often paints a more accurate picture for an investor than a single snapshot of one period.





Key Takeaways

Rolling returns are annualized average returns for a period, ending with the listed year.Rolling returns are useful for examining the behavior of returns for holding periods, similar to those actually experienced by investors. These can also be used to smooth past performance to account for several periods instead of a single instance.Trailing 12 months (TTM) is one commonly used rolling return measure.


   Understanding Rolling Returns  

One goal of rolling returns is to highlight the frequency and magnitude of an investment's stronger and poorer periods of performance. Rolling returns can offer better insight into a fund's more comprehensive return history, not skewed by the most recent data (month or quarter-end).



For example, the five-year rolling return for 2015 covers Jan. 1, 2011, through Dec. 31, 2015. The five-year rolling return for 2016 is the average annual return for 2012 through 2016. Some investment analysts will break down a multi-year period into a series of rolling 12 month periods.



By looking at rolling returns, investors are able to understand how a fund's returns stacked up at a more particular point in time. If an investment displays a 9% annualized return over a 10-year period, this shows that if you invested on Jan. 1 in Year 0, and sold your investment on Dec. 31 at the conclusion of Year 10, you earned the equivalent of 9% a year. Yet during those 10 years, returns could have varied drastically.



In Year 4, the investment could have moved up 35%, while in Year 8 it could have dropped 17%. Averaged out, you earned 9% per year (the “average annualized” return), yet this 9% might misrepresent the investment’s performance.



Analyzing rolling returns instead could demonstrate annual performance not simply starting Jan. 1 and ending Dec. 31 but also beginning Feb. 1 and ending Jan. 31 of the next year, then March 1 through Feb. 28 of the next year, and so on. A 10-year rolling return could highlight an investment’s best and worst decades in this form.



In the context of equity research and valuation, financial results for publicly traded companies are only released on a quarterly basis in securities filings in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Less frequently, firms provide monthly statements with sales volumes or key performance indicators.


   Trailing 12 Months (TTM) Rolling Returns  

A common rolling return period is trailing 12 months (TTM). Trailing 12 months is the term for the data from the past 12 consecutive months used for reporting financial figures. A company's trailing 12 months represents its financial performance for a 12-month period; it does not typically represent a fiscal-year ending period.



Using trailing 12-month (TTM) returns is an effective way to analyze the most recent financial data in an annualized format. Annualized data is important because it helps neutralize the effects of seasonality and dilutes the impact of non-recurring abnormalities in financial results, such as temporary changes in demand, expenses, or cash flow.



By using TTM, analysts can evaluate the most recent monthly or quarterly data rather than looking at older information that contains full fiscal or calendar year information. TTM charts are less useful for identifying short-term changes and more useful for forecasting.



Companies conducting internal corporate financial planning and analysis have access to detailed and very recent financial data. They use the TTM format to evaluate key performance indicators (KPI), revenue growth, margins, working capital management, and other metrics that may vary seasonally or show temporary volatility.



In the context of equity research and valuation, financial results for publicly traded companies are only released on a quarterly basis in securities filings in accordance with GAAP. Less frequently, firms provide monthly statements with sales volumes or key performance indicators. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings generally display financial results on a quarterly or year-to-date basis rather than TTM.



To get a clear picture of the last year of performance, analysts and investors often must calculate their own TTM figures from current and prior financial statements. Consider recent financial results from General Electric (GE). In Q1 2020, GE generated $20.5 billion in revenue versus $27 billion in Q1 2019.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ GE logged $95 billion of sales for the full year of 2019.﻿﻿ By subtracting the Q1 2019 figure from the full-year 2019 figure and adding Q1 2020 revenues, you arrive at $88.5 billion in TTM revenue.
What Is a Rollover?  

A rollover may entail a number of actions, most popularly the transfer of the holdings of one retirement plan to another without creating a taxable event. A rollover may also entail reinvesting funds from a mature security into a new issue of the same or similar security, or moving a FOREX (FX) position to the following delivery date, in which case the rollover incurs a charge.



In the context of retirement assets, the distribution from a retirement plan is reported on IRS Form 1099-R and may be limited to one per annum for each individual retirement account (IRA). The forex rollover fee arising from the difference in interest rates between the two currencies underlying a transaction is paid to the broker.


   Understanding a Rollover  

Rollovers often occur as a way of making money for a specific purpose, such as immediate income from day trading or for saving on taxes, as with retirement plans. A rollover IRA or IRA rollover is a transfer of funds from a retirement account into a traditional IRA or a Roth IRA. As shown by the following examples, the benefits of rollovers vary among different types of investments.





Key Takeaways

A rollover may entail a number of actions but often refers to the transfer of the holdings of one retirement plan to another without having to pay taxes. When a rollover occurs it may mean a person has reinvested funds from a mature security into a new issue of the same or similar security. When a direct rollover occurs in a retirement plan, the funds may be sent directly to the new investment vehicle. 


   Rollover in Retirement Accounts  

With a direct rollover, the retirement plan administrator may pay the plan’s proceeds directly to another plan or to an IRA. The distribution may be issued as a check made payable to the new account. When receiving a distribution from an IRA through a trustee-to-trustee transfer, the institution holding the IRA may distribute the funds from the IRA to the other IRA or a retirement plan.






In the case of a 60-day rollover, funds from a retirement plan or IRA are paid directly to the investor, who deposits some or all of the funds in another retirement plan or IRA within 60 days.



Taxes are typically not paid when performing a direct rollover or trustee-to-trustee transfer. However, distributions from a 60-day rollover and funds not rolled over are typically taxable.



Another type of retirement account rollover has emerged as a financing alternative for those who are starting a business. When executed properly, a rollover for business startups (ROBS) allows entrepreneurs to invest their retirement savings into a new business venture without incurring taxes, early withdrawal penalties, or loan costs. However, a ROBS transaction can be complicated to execute, so it's important to work with a competent provider.


   Rollover in Forex Positions  

Long-term forex day traders can make money in the market by trading from the positive side of the rollover equation. Traders begin by computing swap points, which is the difference between the forward rate and the spot rate of a specific currency pair as expressed in pips. Traders base their calculations on interest rate parity, which implies that investing in varying currencies should result in hedged returns that are equal, regardless of the currencies’ interest rates.



Traders compute the swap points for a certain delivery date by considering the net benefit or cost of lending one currency and borrowing another against it during the time between the spot value date and the forward delivery date. The trader thus makes money when he is on the positive side of the interest rollover payment.
What Is Rollover Risk?  

Rollover risk is a risk associated with the refinancing of debt. Rollover risk is commonly faced by countries and companies when a loan or other debt obligation (like a bond) is about to mature and needs to be converted, or rolled over, into new debt. If interest rates have risen in the meantime, they would have to refinance their debt at a higher rate and incur more interest charges in the future—or, in case of a bond issue, pay out more in interest. It is similar to reinvestment risk.



Rollover risk may also refer to the risk of losing money when rolling derivatives positions.





Key Takeaways

Rollover risk is also associated with the refinancing of debt—specifically, that the interest charged for a new loan will be higher than that on the old.Generally, the shorter-term the maturing debt, the greater the borrower's rollover risk.This risk can also refer to the risk that a derivatives position will lose value if and when it is rolled to a new maturity.Rollover risk reflects economic conditions (e.g. liquidity and credit markets) versus a borrower's financial condition.


   How Rollover Risk Works  

Also known as "roll risk," rollover risk is sometimes used interchangeably with refinancing risk. However, it's actually more of a sub-category of that. Refinancing risk is a more general term, referring to the possibility of a borrower being unable to replace an existing loan with a new one. Rollover risk deals more specifically with the adverse effect of rolling over or refinancing debt.



This effect has more to do with prevailing economic conditions—specifically, interest rate trends and the liquidity of credit—than the financial condition of the borrower. For example, if the U.S. had $1 trillion dollars of debt it needed to roll over in the next year, and interest rates suddenly rose 2% higher before the new debt was issued, it would cost the government a lot more in new interest payments.


   Special Considerations  

The state of the economy is also significant. Lenders are often unwilling to renew expiring loans during a financial crisis, when collateral values drop, especially if they are short-term loans—that is, their remaining maturity is less than one year.



So along with the economy, the nature of the debt can matter, according to a 2012 article "Rollover Risk and Credit Risk," published in The Journal of Finance:



Debt maturity plays an important role in determining the firm’s rollover risk. While shorter maturity for an individual bond reduces its risk, shorter maturity for all bonds issued by a firm exacerbates its rollover risk by forcing its equity holders to quickly absorb losses incurred by its debt financing.


   Derivatives Roll Risk  

Rollover risk also exists in derivatives, where futures or options contracts must be "rolled" over to later maturities as near-term contracts expire in order to preserve one's market position. If this process will incur a cost or lose money it poses a risk.



In particular, it refers to the possibility that a hedge position will expire at a loss, necessitating a cash payment when the expiring hedge is replaced with a new one. In other words, if a trader wants to hold a futures contract until its maturity and then replace it with a new, similar contract, they run the risk of the new contract costing more than the old—paying a premium to extend the position.


   Example of Rollover Risk  

At the beginning of October 2018, the World Bank issued concerns about two Asian nations; "Rollover risks are potentially acute for Indonesia and Thailand, given their sizable stocks of short-term debt (around $50 billion and $63 billion, respectively)," it stated.



The World Bank's concerns had reflected the fact that central banks around the world had been tightening credit and raising interest rates, following the lead of the U.S. Federal Reserve, which had increased the federal funds rate steadily between 2015 and December 2018, from near 0% to 2.25%—resulting in billions in U.S. and foreign investments being pulled from both countries.



However, between 2008 and 2021, interest rates fell as the Fed cut the federal funds rate to a range of 0.0% to 0.25%. The move was made to support the economy amid the 2020 economic crisis following the global COVID-19 pandemic. However, 2022 saw increased inflation and the Fed was forced to raise interest rates. This can result in renewed rollover risk.




How Can Rollover Risk Be Minimized?
Interest rate changes are out of our individual control, so it is difficult to minimalize rollover risk. Institutional traders can use interest rate derivatives to hedge this type of exposure, but this is largely unavailable to ordinary individuals.




When Is it Best to Refinance a Mortgage?
If you have a mortgage with no prepayment penalties, it can make sense to refinance when interest rates fall, lowering your monthly payments and reducing the overall amount of interest paid on the loan. Because refis are new loans, they often come with fees and closing costs. Therefore, the interest rate has to be sufficiently lower enough to also cover these costs.




What Is Roll Risk in Derivatives Trading?
In derivatives trading, contracts expire on regular schedules and so positions must be "rolled over" to longer-dated contracts in order to maintain them. Roll risk in this context is the risk of losses resulting from this type of transaction.
What Is a Roth 401(k)?  

A Roth 401(k) is an employer-sponsored retirement savings account that is funded using after-tax dollars. This means that income tax is paid immediately on the earnings that the employee deducts from each paycheck and deposits into the account. Withdrawals from the account are tax-free upon retirement.



This type of plan is different from a traditional 401(k) plan, which is funded with pretax money. In this case, payroll deductions come out of the employee's gross income and taxes are due only when the money is withdrawn from the account.





Key Takeaways

A Roth 401(K) is a type of employer-sponsored retirement savings plan.Contributions made to Roth 401(k) are taxed but earnings and withdrawals made after retirement are tax-free.The minimum age to take required minimum distributions as of Jan. 1, 2023, is 73 unless you were 72 in 2022.Contribution limits are adjusted annually for inflation and are announced each year by the IRS.Penalties apply if you make withdrawals before you turn 59½ or if you had the account for less than five years.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   How Roth 401(k)s Work  

Investors have many options when it comes to saving for retirement. One of the most common ways to put money aside is through employer-sponsored plans like the 401(k). Participation is voluntary and those who take part agree to automatic payroll deductions that are transferred into a special retirement account. Some employers even match employee contributions up to a certain amount.



There are several varieties of 401(k)s that exist. The Roth 401(k) option became available as of the beginning of 2006, while the traditional 401(k) has been around since 1978. Both were authorized by Congress as tax-advantaged retirement plans to encourage employees to save for their retirement.



Their tax advantages are different:



A traditional 401(k) reduces the employee's gross income for the year, giving them an instant tax break in addition to a retirement savings vehicle. The employee will owe regular income tax on every withdrawal made during retirement.
The Roth 401(k) requires that the income tax be paid immediately, so the employee's real net income is reduced by the amount earmarked for savings. But no further taxes will be owed on withdrawals of either the contributions or the profits earned over the years.






Roth 401(k)s are not available in all company-sponsored retirement schemes. When they are, 43% of savers opt for the Roth over a traditional 401(k). Millennials are more likely to contribute to a Roth 401(k) than Gen Xers or baby boomers.


   Roth 401(k) Contribution Limits  

A Roth 401(k) is subject to contribution limits based on the individual's age. These limits are adjusted annually for inflation and released by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).



The contribution limit for individuals in $20,500 in 2022. Individuals 50 and older can contribute an additional $6,500 as a catch-up contribution. In 2023, the contribution limit rises to $22,500, and the catch-up contribution increases to $7,500. Unlike other plans, there is no income limit to participate.










Roth 401(k) Contribution Limits




 Year
Less than Age 50
 50 Years or Older


2021
$19,500
$26,000


2022
$20,500
$27,000


2023
$22,500
$30,000






Note that if your income is very low, you cannot contribute more than your taxable income for that year.


   Roth 401(k) Withdrawal Rules  

Withdrawals of any contributions and earnings are not taxed as long as the withdrawal is a qualified distribution, which means certain criteria must be met. This means that:



The Roth 401(k) account must have been held for at least five years.The withdrawal must have occurred because of a disability, on or after the death of an account owner, or when an account holder reaches at least age 59½.



As of Jan. 1, 2023, your first required minimum distribution (RMD) must be taken when you turn 73, as per the SECURE Act 2.0. Passed on Dec. 23, 2022, the new bill made provisions to the SECURE Act of 2019. It's important to note, though, that if you were 72 in 2022 or 70½ before Jan. 1, 2020, you can continue taking your RMDs as scheduled. That is unless you are still employed at the company that holds the plan and you aren't a 5% (or more) owner of the business sponsoring the plan.



Keep in mind that individuals can withdraw more than the RMD. But there is a penalty if you miss an RMD or if your withdrawal is less than outlined during a calendar year. Previously 50% of the value of the missed withdrawal, this penalty is now 25% of the missed withdrawal's value. You can reduce the amount of the penalty to 10% if you fix the mistake before the date that the penalty is imposed, which is known as the correction window.






Unlike a Roth 401(k), a Roth IRA is not subject to required minimum distributions.﻿﻿


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Roth 401(k)s  

A Roth 401(k) may have the greatest benefit for employees currently in a low tax bracket who expect to move into a higher one after they retire. Contributions made to a Roth 401(k) are taxed at the lower tax rate. Distributions are tax-free in retirement, making them the greatest single advantage. No matter how much the account grows over the years, that money is still exempt from income taxes after the account holder retires.



The downside is a little more immediate financial pain. Because contributions to a traditional 401(k) are not taxed immediately (but effectively reduce the amount of your gross income), the impact on your take-home pay is reduced and your tax break for the year is maximized. But there's no such deal with a Roth 401(k). This means that you are out-of-pocket for (but still taxed on) the deposits you make to it in the year you make them.





Pros

Helps people who believe they'll be in a higher tax bracket later in life
Distributions are tax-free during retirement
Earnings grow tax-free



Cons

Contributions are made using after-tax dollars
Contributions don't reduce your taxable income





   Roth 401(k) vs. Other Retirement Accounts  

As noted above, Roth 401(k) accounts are employer-sponsored plans that help people plan for retirement. But it's not the only option available to investors.


  401(k) Plans  

Like its Roth equivalent, the traditional 401(k) is an employer-sponsored plan. This means you can't set one up on your own. Money is taken out of your paycheck through automatic deductions and transferred into a special account. The money is then invested in a series of mutual funds that you choose.



The IRS sets limits on how much you contribute to the plan each year. This figure is adjusted annually for inflation:



Employees below age 50 cannot contribute more than $20,500 per year for 2022. This increases to $22,500 in 2023.
Those 50 and over can make a catch-up contribution of $6,000 plus $1,000 per year in 2022 and $6,500 plus $1,000 in 2023.
The contribution limit increases to $22,500 in 2023. If you are older than 50, you can make an additional catch-up contribution of $7,500.



Employers can also contribute to their employees' plans, so long as the total contribution does not exceed the employee's annual salary. The 2022 limit for employer-employee contributions is capped at $61,000, or $67,500 including the catch-up contribution. For 2023, those limits rise to $66,000 and $73,500 respectively.



This plan is a defined contribution plan, which means your contributions determine the account balance and how well your account performs. Contributions are made using pretax dollars, reducing the income tax you pay. Withdrawals made during retirement are subject to income tax.


   Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs)  

If you don't have the option to invest in an employer-sponsored plan, you may want to consider an individual retirement account (IRA). This kind of account can be set up by anyone through a financial institution or investment firm, which means anyone who has earned income is entitled to one.



You can invest in a variety of investments under an IRA, including stocks, bonds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), mutual funds, and real estate investment trusts (REITs). Just like the 401(k), there are several types of IRA options available:



Traditional IRA: Contributions made to a traditional IRA are tax-deductible, thereby decreasing your taxable income. Withdrawals made during retirement are taxed at your normal income tax rate. For 2022, you can only contribute $6,000 if you're under 50, increasing to $6,500 in 2023. You can make an additional $1,000 catch-up contribution per year if you are over 50.
Roth IRA: Contributions made to a Roth IRA are made using after-tax dollars. This means you can't use them to reduce your taxable income. The limits are the same as traditional IRAs. Any withdrawals you make during retirement are tax-free. Roth IRAs don't require you to take minimum distributions—or any at all. You can leave the money in your account if you choose to do so. You will be hit with a 10% early withdrawal penalty if you take money out before age 59½.



You can also choose a SEP IRA or a SIMPLE IRA if you're self-employed or work for a small business.


  403(b) Plans  

These plans are just like the 401(k) but are sponsored by employers for individuals who work in schools and other tax-exempt organizations. This includes teachers, professors, clergy people, doctors, nurses, government employees, and librarians.



Participants agree to regular payroll deductions. Individuals may also benefit from additional contributions by the employer if they provide 403(b)s.



These plans have the same contribution limits as regular 401(k) plans. If you have one, you can contribute a maximum of $20,500 in 2022, or $22,500 in 2023. People over 50 can make an additional contribution of $6,500 in 2022, or $7,500 in 2023.




How Do Roth 401(k) Plans Work?
Roth 401(k) plans are only available through an employer, which means you can't set one up on your own. Contributions are made using after-tax dollars through payroll deductions. The contributions grow tax-free in your account. Withdrawals are also tax-free as long as you've held the account for at least five years and you're at least 59½. The required minimum distribution must be taken for those who turn 72 in 2022 or before. That age increases to 73 after Jan. 1, 2023.




Is a Roth 401(k) Better Than a Traditional 401(k)?
Your personal circumstances can help answer that question. The Roth 401(k) is generally a better deal because you only pay income taxes on your contributions. This allows your earnings to grow tax-free and make withdrawals without paying income taxes. If you're cash-strapped now, this option will be a heavier hit to your current annual income.Contributions to a traditional 401(k) are tax-free but you must pay taxes on your withdrawals. So if you expect to be in a lower tax bracket after retiring, the immediate tax break of a traditional 401(k) may be more useful.




What Are the Criteria for Roth 401(k) Withdrawals?
A withdrawal is only considered a qualified distribution as long as you've held the account for at least five years and you're 59½ unless you are disabled or the account holder dies.You must make the required minimum distributions if you are at least 72 years old before 2022 unless you still work for the company that holds the 401(k) and don't have at least a 5% ownership stake in the business that sponsors the plan. You must begin taking RMDs at 73 beginning Jan. 1, 2023.




Can You Lose Money in a Roth 401(k)?
You can lose money in any investment if the market tanks. That said, most employers offer a choice of funds, including very low-risk options like government bond funds. You can mix and match choices to reach the level of risk you are comfortable taking.You can also lose money in a Roth 401(k) if you break the rules and take early distributions. If you're considering taking some money out early, check with the fund administrator to find out whether you might owe a tax penalty.


   The Bottom Line  

Roth 401(k) plans allow a company's employees to start investing for their retirement. Like other 401(k) plans, there may be an employer matching contribution. However, unlike regular 401(k) plans, a Roth is funded using after-tax dollars, meaning that there are no income taxes when you take distributions during retirement.
Tara Anand / Investopedia


   What Is a Roth IRA?  

An individual retirement account (IRA) is an account used to save for retirement. A Roth IRA is a special type of tax-advantaged individual retirement account to which you can contribute after-tax dollars. The primary benefit of a Roth IRA is that your contributions and the earnings on those contributions can grow tax-free and be withdrawn tax-free after the age 59½ assuming the account has been open for at least five years. In other words, you pay taxes on money going into your Roth IRA, and then all future withdrawals are tax-free.



Roth IRAs are similar to traditional IRAs, with the biggest distinction being how the two are taxed. Roth IRAs are funded with after-tax dollars—this means that the contributions are not tax-deductible, but once you start withdrawing funds, the money is tax-free.






Subscribe to 'Term of the Day' and learn a new financial term every day. Stay informed and make smart financial decisions. Sign up now.





Key Takeaways

A Roth IRA is a special individual retirement account (IRA) where you pay taxes on money going into your account, and then all future withdrawals are tax free.Roth IRAs are best when you think your marginal taxes will be higher in retirement than they are right now.Single filers can’t contribute to a Roth IRA if they earn more than $153,000 in 2023. For married couples filing jointly, the limit is $228,000 in 2023.The deductible amount that you can contribute changes periodically. In 2023, the limit increased to $6,500 (plus the additional $1,000 for those 50 and older).Almost all brokerage ﬁrms, both brick-and-mortar and online, offer a Roth IRA. So do most banks and investment companies.


   How Does a Roth IRA Work?  

You can put money you've already paid taxes on into a Roth IRA. It will then grow, and when you come to withdraw once you retire, you won't have to pay any further taxes.



A Roth IRA can be funded from a number of sources:



Regular contributions
Spousal IRA contributions
Transfers
Rollover contributions
Conversions



All regular Roth IRA contributions must be made in cash (which includes checks and money orders)—they can’t be in the form of securities or property. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) limits how much can be deposited annually in any type of IRA, adjusting the amounts periodically. The contribution limits are the same for traditional and Roth IRAs. These limits apply across all your IRAs, so even if you have multiple accounts you can't contribute more than the maximum.





Tip

Want more advice for saving money toward your financial goals? Order a copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine.



Similar to other qualified retirement plan accounts, the money invested within the Roth IRA grows tax-free. However, a Roth IRA is less restrictive than other accounts. The account holder can maintain the Roth IRA indefinitely; there are no required minimum distributions (RMDs) during their lifetime, as there are with 401(k)s and traditional IRAs.



Conversely, traditional IRA deposits are generally made with pretax dollars; you usually get a tax deduction on your contribution and pay income tax when you withdraw the money from the account during retirement.







Roth IRA Vs. Traditional IRA


   Allowable Investments in a Roth IRA  

Once the funds are contributed, a variety of investment options exist within a Roth IRA, including mutual funds, stocks, bonds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), certificates of deposit (CDs), money market funds, and even cryptocurrency.



Note that IRS rules mean that you cannot contribute cryptocurrency directly to your Roth IRA. However, the recent emergence of “Bitcoin IRAs” has created retirement accounts designed to let you invest in cryptocurrencies. The IRS also lists other assets that are not permitted within an IRA, such as life insurance contracts and derivative trades.



If you want the broadest range of investment options, you need to open a Roth self-directed IRA (SDIRA) a special category of Roth IRA in which the investor, not the financial institution, manages their investments. These unlock a universe of possible investments.



In addition to the standard investments (stocks, bonds, cash, money market funds, and mutual funds), you can hold assets that aren’t typically part of a retirement portfolio. Some of these include gold, investment real estate, partnerships, and tax liens—even a franchise business.





$6,500

The maximum annual contribution that an individual can make to a Roth IRA in 2023. Those ages 50 and older can contribute up to $7,500.


   Opening a Roth IRA  

A Roth IRA must be established with an institution that has received IRS approval to offer IRAs. These include banks, brokerage companies, federally insured credit unions, and savings and loan associations. Generally, individuals open IRAs with brokers.



A Roth IRA can be established anytime. However, contributions for a tax year must be made by the IRA owner’s tax-filing deadline, which is normally April 15 of the following year.



Two basic documents must be provided to the IRA owner when an IRA is established:



The IRA disclosure statement
The IRA adoption agreement and plan document



These provide an explanation of the rules and regulations under which the Roth IRA must operate, and they establish an agreement between the IRA owner and the IRA custodian/trustee.



Not all financial institutions are created equal. Some IRA providers have an expansive list of investment options, while others are more restrictive. Almost every institution has a different fee structure for your Roth IRA, which can have a significant impact on your investment returns.



Your risk tolerance and investment preferences will play a role in choosing a Roth IRA provider. If you plan on being an active investor and making lots of trades, you want to find a provider that has lower trading costs. Certain providers even charge you an account inactivity fee if you leave your investments alone for too long. Some providers have more diverse stock or ETF offerings than others; it all depends on what type of investments you want in your account.



Pay attention to the specific account requirements as well. Some providers have higher minimum account balances than others. If you plan on banking with the same institution, see if your Roth IRA account comes with additional banking products. If you’re looking at opening a Roth IRA at a bank or brokerage where you already have an account, see whether existing customers receive any IRA fee discounts.



Most IRA providers offer only regular IRA (traditional or Roth) accounts. For a self-directed IRA, you’ll need a qualified IRA custodian that specializes in that type of account, which allows assets beyond the typical stocks, bonds, ETFs, and mutual funds.


   Are Roth IRAs Insured?  

If your account is located at a bank, be aware that IRAs fall under a different insurance category from conventional deposit accounts. Therefore, coverage for IRA accounts is not as robust. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) still offers insurance protection up to $250,000 for traditional or Roth IRA accounts, but account balances are combined rather than viewed individually.



For example, if the same banking customer has a CD held within a traditional IRA with a value of $200,000 and a Roth IRA held in a savings account with a value of $100,000 at the same institution, then the account holder has $50,000 of vulnerable assets without FDIC coverage.


   What Can You Contribute to a Roth IRA?  

The IRS dictates not only how much money you can deposit in a Roth IRA but also the type of money that you can deposit. Basically, you can only contribute earned income to a Roth IRA.



For individuals working for an employer, compensation that is eligible to fund a Roth IRA includes wages, salaries, commissions, bonuses, and other amounts paid to the individual for the services that they perform. It’s generally any amount shown in Box 1 of the individual’s Form W-2. For a self-employed individual or a partner or member of a pass-through business, compensation is the individual’s net earnings from their business, less any deduction allowed for contributions made to retirement plans on the individual’s behalf and further reduced by 50% of the individual’s self-employment taxes.



Money related to divorce—alimony, child support, or in a settlement—can also be contributed if it is related to taxable alimony received from a divorce settlement executed prior to Dec. 31, 2018.



So, what sort of funds aren’t eligible? The list includes:



Rental income or other profits from property maintenance
Interest income
Pension or annuity income
Stock dividends and capital gains
Passive income earned from a partnership in which you do not provide substantial services



You can never contribute more to your IRA than your earned income in that tax year. And as previously mentioned, you receive no tax deduction for the contribution—although you may be able to take a Saver's Tax Credit of 10%, 20%, or 50% of the deposit, depending on your income and life situation.


   Who’s Eligible for a Roth IRA?  

Anyone who has earned income can contribute to a Roth IRA—as long as they meet certain requirements concerning filing status and modified adjusted gross income (MAGI). Those whose annual income is above a certain amount, which the IRS adjusts periodically, become ineligible to contribute. The chart below shows the figures for 2022 and 2023.









Do You Qualify for a Roth IRA?




Category
Income Range for 2023 Contribution


Married and filing a joint tax return
Full: Less than $218,000 Partial: From $218,000 to less than $228,000


Married, filing a separate tax return, lived with spouse at any time during the year
Full: $0 Partial: Less than $10,000


Single, head of household, or married filing separately without living with spouse at any time during the year
Full: Less than $138,000 Partial: From $138,000 to less than $153,000






Here’s how the system works: An individual who earns less than the ranges shown for their appropriate category can contribute up to 100% of their compensation or the contribution limit, whichever is less.



Individuals within the phaseout range must subtract their income from the maximum level and then divide that by the phaseout range to determine the percentage of $6,500 that they are allowed to contribute.


   The Spousal Roth IRA  

One way that a couple can boost their contributions is the spousal Roth IRA. An individual may fund a Roth IRA on behalf of their married partner who earns little or no income. Spousal Roth IRA contributions are subject to the same rules and limits as regular Roth IRA contributions. The spousal Roth IRA is held separately from the Roth IRA of the individual making the contribution, as Roth IRAs cannot be joint accounts.



For an individual to be eligible to make a spousal Roth IRA contribution, the following requirements must be met:



The couple must be married and file a joint tax return.The individual making the spousal Roth IRA contribution must have eligible compensation.The total contribution for both spouses must not exceed the taxable compensation reported on their joint tax return.Contributions to one Roth IRA cannot exceed the contribution limits for one IRA (however, the two accounts allow the family to double their annual savings).


   Withdrawals: Qualified Distributions  

At any time during the tax year, you may withdraw contributions from your Roth IRA, both tax- and penalty-free. If you take out only an amount equal to the sum that you’ve put in, then the distribution is not considered taxable income and is not subject to penalty, regardless of your age or how long it has been in the account.



However, there’s a catch when it comes to withdrawing account earnings: any returns that the account has generated. For distribution of account earnings to be considered a qualified distribution, it must occur at least five years after the Roth IRA owner established and funded their first Roth IRA, and the distribution must occur under at least one of the following conditions:



The Roth IRA holder is at least age 59½ when the distribution occurs.The distributed assets are used toward purchasing—or building or rebuilding—a first home for the Roth IRA holder or a qualified family member (the IRA owner’s spouse, a child of the IRA owner or of the IRA owner’s spouse, a grandchild of the IRA owner and/or of their spouse, or a parent or other ancestor of the IRA owner or of their spouse). This is limited to $10,000 per lifetime.The distribution occurs after the Roth IRA holder becomes disabled.The assets are distributed to the beneficiary of the Roth IRA holder after the Roth IRA holder’s death.


   The Five-Year Rule  

Withdrawal of earnings may be subject to taxes and/or a 10% penalty, depending on your age and whether you’ve met the five-year rule. Here’s a quick rundown.



If you meet the five-year rule:



Under age 59½: Earnings are subject to taxes and penalties. You may be able to avoid taxes and penalties if you use the money for a first-time home purchase (a $10,000 lifetime limit applies), if you have a permanent disability. If you pass away and your beneficiary takes the distribution, taxes and penalties may also be avoided. Ages 59½ and older: No taxes or penalties.



If you don’t meet the five-year rule:



Under age 59½: Earnings are subject to taxes and penalties. You may be able to avoid the penalty (but not the taxes) if you use the money for a first-time home purchase (a $10,000 lifetime limit applies), qualified education expenses, unreimbursed medical expenses, if you have a permanent disability, or if you pass away and your beneficiary takes the distribution. Ages 59½ and older: Earnings are subject to taxes but not penalties.






Roth IRA withdrawals are made on a first in, first out (FIFO) basis—so any withdrawals made come from contributions first. Therefore, no earnings are considered touched until all contributions have been taken out.


   Withdrawals: Non-Qualified Distributions  

A withdrawal of earnings that do not meet the above requirements is considered a non-qualified distribution and may be subject to income tax or a 10% early distribution penalty. There may be exceptions, however, if the funds are used:



For unreimbursed medical expenses: If the distribution is used to pay unreimbursed medical expenses for amounts that exceed 7.5% of the individual’s adjusted gross income (AGI).
To pay medical insurance: If the individual has lost their job.
For qualified higher education expenses: If the distribution goes toward qualified higher education expenses of the Roth IRA owner and/or their dependents. These qualified expenses are tuition, fees, books, supplies, and equipment required for the enrollment or attendance of a student at an eligible educational institution and must be used in the year of the withdrawal.
For childbirth or adoption expenses: If they're made within one year of the event and don't exceed $5,000.



Note that if you withdraw only the amount of your contributions made within the current tax year—including any earnings on those contributions—then the contribution is reversed. For example, if you contribute $5,000 in the current year and those funds generate $500 in earnings, you can withdraw the $5,000 principal tax- and penalty-free and the $500 gain will be treated as taxable income.


  Coronavirus-Related Distributions  

A special provision in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act allowed taxpayers to take a coronavirus-related distribution from Jan. 1, 2020, to Dec. 31, 2020, up to an aggregate $100,000 from all qualified plans and IRAs. The coronavirus-related distribution could be taken by a qualified individual, defined by the IRS as someone who was negatively affected by coronavirus—either financially or through a family diagnosis. Retirement plan owners who qualified for coronavirus-related distributions included those:



Diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2Whose spouse or dependent was diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2Who were financially impacted due to furlough, quarantine, layoff, or reduced work hours during the pandemicWho were unable to work due to lack of childcare during the pandemicWho were financially impacted due to the reduction of business hours or closure of their own business during the pandemic



The special provision allows the retirement account holder to take the distribution as a standard withdrawal with no repayment or as a loan with a repayment option. The distribution was exempt from the 10% early distribution penalty but was taxed as ordinary income. The CARES Act allows the withdrawal to be taxed as ordinary income in full in 2020 or over a three-year period in 2020, 2021, and 2022. If you plan to pay back the funds, you have until the end of the third year. Please note that you will still have to pay taxes on the distribution until the year you pay it back.



For example, let’s assume that you withdrew $15,000 in 2020. You would need to claim $5,000 on your tax returns in 2020 and 2021. If you repay the funds in full in 2022, then you would not need to pay taxes on the final $5,000. Additionally, you will need to file an amended return for 2020 and 2021 to recoup your taxes previously paid on the first two-thirds.



If you have multiple retirement accounts, the Roth IRA may be the best option to take a coronavirus-related distribution. For Roth IRAs, remember that withdrawals up to the amount of contributed funds are always tax-free since contributions are made on an after-tax basis. Because Roth IRA withdrawals are taken on the FIFO basis mentioned above, and no earnings are considered touched until all contributions have been taken out first, your taxable distribution would be even less from a Roth IRA.


   Roth IRA vs. Traditional IRA  

Whether a Roth IRA is more beneficial than a traditional IRA depends on the tax bracket of the filer, the expected tax rate at retirement, and personal preference.



Individuals who expect to be in a higher tax bracket once they retire may find the Roth IRA more advantageous since the total tax avoided in retirement will be greater than the income tax paid in the present. Therefore, younger and lower-income workers may benefit the most from a Roth IRA.



Indeed, by beginning to save with an IRA early in life, investors make the most of the snowballing effect of compound interest: Your investment and its earnings are reinvested and generate more earnings, which are reinvested, and so on.






Consider opening a Roth IRA rather than a traditional IRA if you are more interested in tax-free income when you retire than in a tax deduction now when you contribute.



Of course, even if you expect to have a lower tax rate in retirement, you’ll still enjoy a tax-free income stream from your Roth IRA. That’s not the worst idea in the world.



Those who don’t need their Roth IRA assets in retirement can leave the money to accrue indefinitely and pass the assets to heirs tax-free upon death. Even better, while the beneficiary must take distributions from an inherited IRA, they can stretch out tax deferral by taking distributions for a decade—and, in some specialized cases, for their lifetimes.



Traditional IRA beneficiaries, on the other hand, do pay taxes on the distributions. Also, a spouse can roll over an inherited IRA into a new account and not have to begin taking distributions until age 73.



Some open or convert to Roth IRAs because they fear an increase in taxes in the future, and this account allows them to lock in the current tax rates on the balance of their conversions. Executives and other highly compensated employees who are able to contribute to a Roth retirement plan through their employers—for example, via a Roth 401(k)—can also roll these plans into Roth IRAs with no tax consequence and then escape having to take mandatory minimum distributions when they turn 73.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


Is It Better to Invest in a Roth IRA or a 401(k)?
There are many variables to consider when choosing a Roth IRA or a 401(k) retirement account. Each type of account provides an opportunity for savings to grow tax-free. Roth IRAs do not provide tax advantages when you make a deposit, but you can withdraw tax-free during retirement. The reverse is true for 401(k)s. These types of accounts involve contributing a portion of your paycheck into a 401(k) prior to income tax deductions. In terms of contribution limits, Roth IRAs are typically lower than 401(k)s.Additionally, 401(k)s allow employers to make matching contributions. On the flip side, 401k(s) often have higher fees, minimum distributions, and fewer investment options.




How Much Can I Put in My Roth IRA Monthly?
In 2023, the maximum annual contribution amount for a Roth IRA is $6,500, or $541.67 monthly for those under age 50. This amount increases to $7,500 annually, or roughly $625 monthly, for individuals age 50 or older. Note there is no monthly limit, only the annual limit. 




What Are the Advantages of a Roth IRA?
While Roth IRAs do not include an employer match, they do allow for a greater diversity of investment options. For individuals who anticipate that they will be in a higher tax bracket when they’re older, Roth IRAs can also provide a beneficial option. In Roth IRAs, you can withdraw your contributions (but not earnings) tax- and penalty-free. Ultimately, you can manage how you want to invest your Roth IRA by setting up an account with a brokerage, bank, or qualified financial institution.




What Are the Disadvantages of a Roth IRA?
Among the disadvantages of Roth IRAs is the fact that, unlike 401(k)s, they do not include an up-front tax break. Secondly, annual contribution limits are about a third of 401(k)s. For some high-income individuals, there are reduced or limited contribution amounts. Additionally, there is no automatic payroll deduction.


   The Bottom Line  

A Roth IRA is an individual retirement account (IRA) that allows you to withdraw money (without paying a penalty) on a tax-free basis after age 59½, and after you have owned the account for its five-year holding period. If you buy a home, pay for college, or need your Roth funds for the birth or adoption of a child, you can also withdraw without paying a penalty.



Roth accounts are funded with after-tax money, so while you don't get the up-front tax break of a traditional IRA, you can withdraw your contributions without paying federal or state income tax on the amount after meeting the criteria for withdrawals.



For individuals who anticipate that they will be in a higher tax bracket when they are older or have retired, Roth IRAs can provide a beneficial option, as the money is not taxable, unlike a 401(k) or traditional IRA withdrawals.
What Is a Round Lot?  

A round lot is a standard number of securities to be traded on an exchange. In stocks, a round lot is considered 100 shares or a larger number that can be evenly divided by 100. In bonds, a round lot is usually $100,000 worth.



A round lot is sometimes referred to as a normal trading unit, and may be contrasted with an odd lot.





Key Takeaways

A round lot is a standard minimum trading size for a security or asset.A round lot of stocks usually equals 100 shares or a multiple of 100 shares.A round lot of bonds is $100,000 worth or a multiple of $100,000.Odd lots and smaller lots have become increasingly common due to technological advances and retail investor demand.


   Understanding the Round Lot  

Historically, a round lot of 100 shares of stock has been the smallest order that can be placed through an exchange. However, that is changing. Today, so-called odd lots and fractional shares allow for the execution of orders as small as one share on some exchanges or even a fraction of a share.



Nonetheless, investment managers and institutions typically purchase stocks in large batches. Round lots often have lower trading costs, and discounts are applied for various round lot amounts.


   Types of Round Lots  
  Round Lots in Options  

In the options markets, a round lot consists of 100 contracts in listed calls and puts. Investors can buy one options contract. Each of those contracts typically represents an odd lot of stock.



Other markets, such as commodities markets, have their own convention for what is defined as a round lot.


  Round Lots in Bonds  

A round lot in bonds is usually $100,000 worth of bonds or a multiple of $100,000. Any other amount is considered an odd lot and incurs higher trading costs.



That said, innovation is ongoing in the bond market, too, and mechanisms are evolving for smaller blocks and odd-lot trades.


   Round Lots vs. Odd Lots  

A lot consisting of fewer than 100 shares or a lot that cannot be evenly divided by 100 is called an odd lot.



Odd lots are sometimes combined, or bunched, into round lots to facilitate trading. A mixed lot consists of both a round lot and an odd lot. An order of 198 shares would be considered a mixed lot.



Such odd lots or mixed lot trades have historically incurred higher trading costs, although improved electronic trading technologies have helped reduce the added fees for them.



Nevertheless, odd lot trades may not be allowed or may not be given priority. Some exchanges may require only round lots for pre-specified market orders, including reserve orders. In these trading situations, orders are placed for trades at a specified transaction price, and preference is given for round lots.






Round lots typically incur lower trading costs and are executed quicker, although trading in odd lots is becoming easier and less costly.


   Recent Trends  

Trading in odd lots has become increasingly common as technology improves. Even fractional shares can now be traded.



Fractional share trading was originally implemented to allow for dividend reinvestment. However, many brokerages now use it to allow their customers to use a dollar-cost investing strategy. With this strategy, the customer sets a personal goal of investing a set amount of money, say $200, every month in a particular stock or fund regardless of its price swings.



Fractional share trading is increasingly popular and many online brokers now facilitate it for any reason.
What Is a Routing Transit Number?  

A routing transit number is a nine-digit number used to identify a bank or financial institution when clearing funds for electronic transfers or processing checks in the United States. A routing transit number is also used in online banking and clearinghouses for financial transactions. Only federally chartered and state-chartered banks that are eligible to maintain an account at a Federal Reserve Bank are issued routing transit numbers.





Key Takeaways

A routing transit number is a nine-digit number used to identify a bank or financial institution when clearing funds or processing checks.The American Bankers Association (ABA) established routing transit numbers in 1910.These numbers are also used in online banking and clearinghouses for financial transactions.Routing transit numbers are often used when setting up a wire transfer or direct deposit.Whereas SWIFT or IBAN numbers are used for international transactions, routing numbers are often required for domestic transfers. 


   How Routing Transit Numbers Work  

A bank’s routing transit number is located at the bottom of a check and is the first nine digits on the far left. The first four digits designate the Federal Reserve Bank of the district where the institution is located. The next four digits denote the bank itself, while the last digit is a classifier for the check or negotiable instrument.



The numbers following the routing transit number on a check are the account number and check number for the bank from which the funds are to be drawn. All checks written on state or federally chartered banks will have routing transit numbers on the bottom.


   How Routing Transit Numbers Are Used  

Routing transit numbers are often used when setting up a wire transfer relationship with one’s personal or business bank. A wire transfer is an electronic funds payment across a network administered by hundreds of banks worldwide.



While no physical currency moves among financial institutions during a wire transfer, information does pass between banks, including the recipient's account information, the receiver's bank account number, and the amount of the transfer. As a result, a correct routing transit number is critical to ensure sensitive information is directed to the appropriate receiving party and that the transaction goes through smoothly.



Routing transit numbers are also involved in direct deposits of money from employers paying employees and income tax refunds from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). A direct deposit allows a sender to deposit funds directly into the receiver’s bank account electronically instead of issuing a paper check.





9 Digits

Routing numbers are nine digits long, while bank account numbers often vary in length. In addition, your routing number will always begin with a 0, 1, 2, or 3.


   Routing Number vs. Other Banking Numbers  

There are a few terms that are synonymous with "routing transit number," including "routing number," "transit number" and "ABA number." ABA is an acronym for the American Bankers Association, which established these numbers in 1910. The terms "routing," "transit," and "ABA" are often used interchangeably. Routing numbers were originally established for checking accounts but have since evolved to include identifying banks during electronic transactions as well.



A SWIFT code is a similar identification code used for facilitating banking transactions, though SWIFT codes are mainly used for international transfers. Alternatively, an international bank account number (IBAN) is a lengthy alphanumeric code that identifies the country, check number, bank code, bank branch code, and bank account number of a transaction. It is also mainly used for international transactions.


   Special Considerations  

Before the invention of the internet and the widespread use of computers, check fraud was a major issue. Fraudsters could falsify a routing number on a check and attempt to cash the check at a local bank. Without the banks being on an interconnected computer system, it was difficult to verify checking account routing numbers, leading to instances of fraud and theft.



LexisNexis Risk Solutions it he official registrar of routing numbers, and newly organized financial institutions must apply to have a routing number assigned to them. A single financial institution may have multiple routing numbers for different payment methods. For example, a bank may have a routing number specific for ACH transfers, paper transactions, or wire transfers.




What Is a Routing Number?
A routing number is a series of nine digits used to identify an institution. Banks use routing numbers to process transactions, as the routing number tells all parties involved which institutions are involved and which parties are receiving or distributing funds.




Where Can I Find My Bank's Routing Number?
Your bank's routing number can be found on the bottom of a paper check. Alternatively, you can often find the routing number when you log into an online banking portal. The routing number is often reported in the same location as your account number.




Which Numbers on a Check Are Routing Numbers?
When looking at a check, the furthest-left numbers is your bank's routing number. The left-most nine digits are the routing number, while the right-most numbers are your account number and check number. The check number at the bottom of a check will correspond to the check number in the upper right corner.




How Are Routing Numbers Used?
Routing numbers are used by financial institutions to communicate between banks. It is the number that identifies the institution you use so the transacting parties know where you account is located.
What Is Roy's Safety-First Criterion – SFRatio?  

Roy's safety-first criterion, also known as the SFRatio, is an approach to investment decisions that sets a minimum required return for a given level of risk. Roy's safety-first criterion allows investors to compare potential portfolio investments based on the probability that the portfolio returns will fall below their minimum desired return threshold.


   The Formula for the SFRatio Is  

﻿















S


F


R


a


t


i


o


=





r


e



−



r


m






σ


p



















where:

















r


e



=


Expected return on portfolio

















r


m



=


Investor’s minimum required return

















σ


p



=


Standard deviation of the portfolio








\begin{aligned} &SFRatio = \frac{r_e-r_m}{\sigma_p}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &r_e = \text{Expected return on portfolio}\\ &r_m = \text{Investor's minimum required return}\\ &\sigma_p = \text{Standard deviation of the portfolio}\\ \end{aligned}


​SFRatio=σp​re​−rm​​where:re​=Expected return on portfoliorm​=Investor’s minimum required returnσp​=Standard deviation of the portfolio​﻿


   How to Calculate Roy's Safety-First Criterion – SFRatio  

The SFRatio is calculated by subtracting the minimum desired return from the expected return of a portfolio and dividing the result by the standard deviation of portfolio returns. The optimal portfolio will be the one that minimizes the probability that the portfolio's return will fall below a threshold level.


   What Does Roy's Safety-First Criterion Tell You?  

The SFRatio provides a probability of getting a minimum-required return on a portfolio. An investor's optimal decision is to choose the portfolio with the highest SFRatio. Investors can use the formula to calculate and evaluate various scenarios involving different asset-class weights, different investments and other factors that affect the probability of meeting their minimum return threshold.



Some investors feel that Roy's safety-first criterion is a risk-management philosophy in addition to being an evaluation method. By choosing investments that adhere to a minimum acceptable portfolio return, an investor can sleep at night knowing that her investment will achieve a minimum return, and anything above that is "gravy."



The SFRatio is very similar to the Sharpe ratio; for normally distributed returns, the minimum return is equal to the risk-free rate.






Roy's safety-first rule measures the minimum return threshold an investor has for a portfolio.Also known as the SFRatio, investors can use the formula to compare different investing scenarios to choose the one most likely to hit their required minimum return.


   Example of Roy's Safety-First Criterion  

Assume three portfolios with various expected returns and standard deviations. Portfolio A has an expected return of 12% with a standard deviation of 20%. Portfolio B has an expected return of 10% with a standard deviation of 10%. Portfolio C has an expected return of 8% with a standard deviation of 5%. The threshold return for the investor is 5%.



Which portfolio should the investor choose? SFRatio for A: (12 - 5) / 20 = 0.35; B: (10 - 5) / 10 = 0.50; C: (8 - 5) / 5 = 0.60. Portfolio C has the highest SFRatio and thus should be selected.
What Is a Royalty?  

A royalty is a legally binding payment made to an individual or company for the ongoing use of their assets, including copyrighted works, franchises, and natural resources. An example of royalties would be payments received by musicians when their original songs are played on the radio or television, used in movies, performed at concerts, bars, and restaurants, or consumed via streaming services. In most cases, royalties are revenue generators specifically designed to compensate the owners of songs or property when they license out their assets for another party's use.





Key Takeaways

A royalty is an amount paid by a third party to an owner of a product or patent for the use of that product or patent.The terms of royalty payments are laid out in a licensing agreement.The royalty rate or the amount of the royalty is typically a percentage based on factors such as the exclusivity of rights, technology, and the available alternatives.Royalty agreements should benefit both the licensor (the person receiving the royalty) and the licensee (the person paying the royalty).Investments in royalties can provide a steady income and are considered less risky than traditional stocks.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Royalties  

Royalty payments typically constitute a percentage of the gross or net revenues obtained from the use of property. However, they can be negotiated on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the wishes of both parties involved in the transaction.



An inventor or original owner may choose to sell their product to a third party in exchange for royalties from the future revenues the product may generate. For example, computer manufacturers pay Microsoft Corporation royalties for the right to use its Windows operating system in the computers they manufacture.



Payment may be nonrenewable resource royalties, patent royalties, trademark royalties, franchises, copyrighted materials, book publishing royalties, music royalties, and art royalties. Well-known fashion designers can charge royalties to other companies for the use of their names and designs.



Third parties pay authors, musical artists, and production professionals for the use of their produced, copyrighted material. Television satellite companies provide royalty payments to air the most viewed stations nationwide. In the oil and gas sectors, companies provide royalties to landowners for permission to extract natural resources from the landowners' covered property.



Royalty agreements should benefit both the licensor (the person receiving the royalty) and the licensee (the person paying the royalty). For the licensor, a royalty agreement to allow another company to use its product can allow them access to a new market. For the licensee, an agreement may give them access to products they could not access otherwise.


   Types of Royalties  

Royalty payments may cover many different types of property. Some of the more common types of royalties are book royalties, performance royalties, patent royalties, franchise royalties, and mineral royalties.



Book royalties: They are paid to authors by publishers. Typically, for every book that is sold, the author will receive an agreed amount.



Performance royalties: In this case, the owner of copyrighted music receives an amount whenever the music or song is played by a radio station, used in a movie, or otherwise used by a third party. A musician might rely on a private performing rights organization, such as ASCAP or BMI, to collect the royalties for them.



Patent royalties: Innovators or creators patent their products. Then, if a third party wants to use that same product of patent, they must enter into a licensing agreement that will require them to pay royalties to the patent owner. This way, the inventor is compensated for their intellectual property.



Franchise royalties: A franchisee, a business owner, will pay a royalty to the franchisor for the right to open a branch under the company name. For example, in 2022 the cost to invest in a McDonald’s franchise ranges from $464,500 to $2,306,500. This includes an initial franchise fee of up to $45,000 that must be paid to the McDonald's Corporation.



Mineral royalties: Also called mineral rights, mineral royalties are paid by mineral extractors to property owners. The party that wants to extract the minerals will often pay the property owner an amount based on either revenue or units, such as barrels of oil or tons of coal.


   Special Considerations  
  Licensing Agreements  

The terms of royalty payments are laid out in a licensing agreement. The licensing agreement defines the limits and restrictions of the royalties, such as its geographic limitations, the duration of the agreement, and the type of products with particular royalty cuts. Licensing agreements are uniquely regulated if the resource owner is the government or if the license agreement is a private contract.


  Royalty Rates  

In most licensing agreements, royalty rates are defined as a percentage of sales or a payment per unit. The many factors that can affect royalty rates include the exclusivity of rights, available alternatives, risks involved, market demand, and innovation levels of the products in question.



To accurately estimate royalty rates, the transactions between the buying and selling parties must be willingly executed. In other words: the agreements must not be forced. Furthermore, all royalty transactions must be conducted at arm's length, meaning that both parties act independently, and have no prior relationship with one other.





Fast Fact

According to Upcounsel, a nationwide legal services company, the industries with the highest average royalty rates are software (9.6%), energy and environment (8%), and health care equipment and products (6.4%). The industries with the lowest average royalty rates are automotive (3.3%), aerospace (4%), and chemicals (4.3%).


   Examples of Royalties  

An author might receive a share of the proceeds from the sales of their book. An example of the royalty structure could be that the author receives 15% on net sales of hardbacks and 7.5% on net sales of paperbacks.



An individual can pay to open a restaurant franchise, McDonald's or Kentucky Fried Chicken, for example. A franchisee of the McDonald's Corporation has a typical initial investment of one to two million dollars, which includes an initial franchise fee of up to $45,000 paid to the McDonalds corporation.



The satellite TV services such as Direct TV and cable television services pay networks and superstations a royalty fee to broadcast those channels on their systems.


   Royalties FAQs  
  What Are Royalties in Business?  

Royalties are designed to protect the intellectual property rights of a company. A company might file a patent on an innovation so that a third party must pay them a fee to use that patent. Intellectual property can be in the form of copyrights, patents, and trademarks.


  How Do Royalties Work?  

Typically, the parties involved will sign a contract or agreement. The agreement will lay out the royalty fees and payment amounts. For example, there may be a fixed fee, or the fee may be a variable percentage of gross sales.



Royalties for specific products (like a book) might be based on the number of units sold. Royalties for oil, gas, and mineral properties may be based on either revenue or on units, such as barrels of oil or tons of coal. In some cases, newly created intellectual property, for example, the royalty percentage. might increase as the sales increase. Some royalties are paid for public licenses. Cable operators pay The Copyright Office for the right to retransmit TV and radio broadcasts.


  What Are Royalties in Stocks?  

It is possible to invest in royalties. Typically, an investor may receive a regular monthly or quarterly payment based on a company’s sales. These types of investments are considered less risky than traditional stocks because they are not dependent on the stock market or interest rates. Also, royalty investments add diversity to a portfolio. Like stock, royalties can be bought and sold.


  What Is a Royalty Agreement?  

A royalty agreement is a legal contract between a licensor and a licensee. The agreement grants the licensee the right to use the licensor’s intellectual property in exchange for royalty payments. The agreement will show the royalty rate, or the terms and amount of the payment to be made, by the user of the property to the owner of the property. The agreement will also state the parties involved, the rights granted, and the period of use.


  What Are Royalty Interests?  

Royalty interest applies to mineral rights agreements. A royalty interest entitles the mineral rights owner to receive a portion of the minerals produced or a portion of the gross revenue from sold production.


   The Bottom Line  

Royalties are, fundamentally, a way for creators, innovators, intellectual property owners, or landowners to earn money from their assets. Royalties take the form of agreements or licenses that lay out the terms by which a third party can use assets that belong to someone else. Intellectual property comes in the form of copyrights, patents, or trademarks. Royalties can be earned on books, music, minerals, franchises, and many other assets. Some royalty agreements are for a set period, while other royalties are earned in perpetuity.
What Is Rule 10b-5?  

Rule 10b-5 is a regulation created under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that targets securities fraud. This rule makes it illegal for anybody to directly or indirectly use any measure to defraud, make false statements, omit relevant information, or otherwise conduct business operations that would deceive another person in the process of conducting transactions involving stock and other securities.



Rule 10b-5 is formally known as the Employment of Manipulative and Deceptive Devices.





Key Takeaways

Rule 10b-5, enacted in 1934 by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), is a rule targeting securities fraud.Two related rules, Rule 10b5-1 and Rule10b5-2, were issued in 2000 to create more current legal perspectives regarding securities fraud.Rule 10b-5 covers insider trading, which occurs when confidential information is used to manipulate the market in one’s favor.Changes to Rule 10b5-1, outlining ways for insiders to proactively avoid the appearance of insider trading, took effect on Feb. 27, 2023.


   How Rule 10b-5 Works  

Rule 10b-5 is the main basis for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to investigate possible security fraud claims. Violations of the rule include executives making false statements to elevate share prices, a company hiding huge losses or low revenue with creative accounting practices, or actions taken to grant current shareholders a better return on their investments—as long as the deception remains undiscovered. These schemes typically require ongoing, misleading statements to perpetrate fraud.



Rule 10b-5 also covers instances where an executive issues false statements to artificially drive down the price of a company’s stock so they can buy up more shares at a discounted rate. These and other manipulative uses of confidential information are acts of insider trading.



In addition to making illicit profits or attracting more investors, these schemes can be put in motion as a way of taking over a company by changing the shareholder balance.


   Introduction of Rules 10b5-1 and 10b5-2  

In 2000, the SEC further defined and clarified a range of issues related to potential securities fraud with ratification of Rule 10b5-1 and Rule 10b5-2. These rules put insider trading into a more modern, legal perspective.


  Rule 10b5-1  

Rule 10b5-1 says that an individual is trading based on material nonpublic information (MNPI) if that person is aware of the information while engaging in a sale or purchase of securities.



However, there are exceptions to and stipulations of Rule 10b5-1 that let individuals proceed with trading even if they possess such information. They include trades that are parts of plans that were already set in motion through a contract or process that wouldn’t be affected by knowledge of the information.






According to Rule 10b5-2, securities fraud can be committed even under nonbusiness circumstances.


  Rule 10b5-2  

Rule 10b5-2 explains ways that the misappropriation theory—which postulates that a person who uses insider information in trading securities has committed securities fraud against the information source even if that person isn’t an insider—can apply even under nonbusiness circumstances.



It further states that an individual who obtains confidential information is obliged to a duty of trust.


   How Affirmative Defense Works Under Rule 10b5-1(c)  

In general, an affirmative defense occurs in a legal sense when someone takes precautionary action before an event. For instance, say you had a broken sidewalk slab in front of your house, and you’re afraid someone might get hurt if they trip on the slab and then sue you. Until getting it repaired, you place some orange hazard cones on the site to warn others that there is a hazard. That constitutes an affirmative defense, meaning you took steps to warn others ahead of someone hurting themselves.



In the securities industry, an affirmative defense is used to apply to securities transactions that could otherwise be interpreted as insider trading or a potentially shady transaction involving MNPI. A 10b5-1 trading plan set up by a company or insider executive spells out the time period covered by the plan, the amount of securities involved, and any price involved in the transaction, as well as the executive involved.



For instance, a 10b5-1 plan might be entered into by a senior executive, in which they intend to sell X amount of shares by a certain date and at a certain price. Having their 10b5-1 plan in place not only eliminates the perception of any sort of insider trading but also discloses in public the actual details of the executive’s trading plan. All this is intended to keep markets transparent and insider trading visible to everyday investors. The 10b5-1 plan is the “orange safety cone” in the securities markets.



Several adjustments to the use of the affirmative defense doctrine by insiders became effective on Feb. 27, 2023. Insider trading under these rules means there is a plan to sell securities by officers, directors, and others with access to MNPI.


   2023 Changes to Trading-Plan Rules  

The following are changes put in place in early February 2023 to clarify rules and procedures related to insider trading activities.


  Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)—Mandatory Cooling-Off Period  

For directors and Section 16 officers wishing to trade their company’s stock, there is now a mandatory cooling-off period. Section 16 is a rule within the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that spells out the regulatory filing responsibilities that directors, officers, and principal stockholders are legally required to adhere to.



The new required cooling-off period covers the later of: 90 days before trading under a 10b5-1 plan can be activated, or two business days after disclosure in a periodic report of the issuer’s financial results for the quarter in which the plan was adopted.






The idea of the cooling-off period is to prevent the appearance of insider trading by having an executive lay out a plan for transactions well in advance of any actual transaction—in this case, 90 days before the 10b5-1 plan can be put in action.



For people other than an issuer, director, or Section 16 officer, a 30-day cooling-off period is required between the plan’s adoption and the start of trading under it.



Previously, there was no mandatory cooling-off period, although most issuers and firms observed some form of a “quiet period,” most frequently using a 30-day time frame.


  Rule 10b5-1(c)(2)—Restricting Multiple Overlapping Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans  

This rule applies to people with an existing 10b5-1 plan. It prohibits them from establishing an additional 10b5-1 plan covering the same time period defined under 10b5-1(c)(1). This regulation is intended to prevent the hedging of an existing 10b5-1 plan with overlapping dates, which may give the 10b5-1 holder an unfair advantage over the general investing public.


  Rule 10b5-1(c)(3)—Restricting Single-Trade Arrangements  

This new regulation offers the availability of the affirmative defense for all individuals, other than issuers, to be applied to a single-trade plan during any 12-month period in which the plan calls for the purchase or sale of securities in a single transaction.



The exception to this rule is that no other 10b5-1 plan calling for a single transaction has been enacted in the last 12 months or would otherwise satisfy Rule 10b5-1(c). As with the overlapping-plan exception, the SEC excluded from this prohibition qualified sell-to-cover transactions, typically made for tax purposes.


  Rule 10b5-1(c)(4)—Officer and Director Certifications  

This rule requires directors and Section 16 officers to declare in their 10b5-1 plan that they don’t have MNPI and that they are entering the 10b5-1 plan in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade the prohibitions of Rule 10b-5.



While previously there was no regulation covering certification of a lack of MNPI, most banks and institutions would regularly require such an attestation as part of a 10b-5 plan.


  Rule 10b5-1(c)(5)—Good-Faith Condition  

All 10b5-1 plans must contain a certification that the plan owner is acting in good faith during the tenure of the plan. This regulation is specifically aimed at the owners of plans (insiders) and the possibility that they might attempt to influence others to make pronouncements or take other actions that would be favorable to the 10b5-1 plan owner. Violation of the good-faith rule removes the affirmative defense option and exposes the plan owner to punishment for insider trading violations.




What Is Rule 10b-5?
This rule covers insider trading and lays out various ways in which insiders can manipulate securities in their favor and against the general investing public. It also provides ways for insiders to rightfully transact in their own company’s stock, creating a trading plan that serves as an affirmative defense to insider trading rules.




How Can Senior Officers or Directors Sell or Buy Securities without Violating Insider Trading Rules?
Senior company officers or directors can avoid the appearance of insider trading and use an affirmative defense by establishing a plan in advance (90 days for insiders or 30 days for outsiders) to transact (sell or buy) in the securities of the insider’s firm.




What If I Come into Possession of MNPI and I Am Not an Employee of the Company Involved?
Anyone who comes into possession of MNPI is under an obligation not to act on that information, as it could still be construed as a form of insider trading, leading to prosecution of the person acting on it.




How Long Must a 10b5-1 Be in Place Before It Can Be Acted Upon?
The SEC has recently declared a 90-day mandatory cooling-off period before a 10b5-1 plan can be implemented. This is to avoid the appearance of potential insider trading and offers the company insider an affirmative defense once they enact their 10b5-1 trading plan.


   The Bottom Line  

Rule 10b-5 sets regulations against insider trading. The rule lays out the types of information considered material nonpublic information (MNPI) and outlines ways that insiders can violate SEC insider trading regulations and expose themselves to penalties and fines.



Rule 10b5-1 was created to allow senior company officials to transact in the company’s stock and avoid insider trading prohibitions. The insider can adopt an affirmative defense for such trading by creating a plan in advance that details what transactions the insider intends to make.
What Is Rule 10b – 18?  

Rule 10B-18 is a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rule that is intended to reduce liability for companies (and their affiliated purchasers) when the company repurchases shares of the company's common stock. Rule 10B-18 is considered a safe harbor provision. A safe harbor is a legal provision to reduce or eliminate legal or regulatory liability in certain situations as long as certain conditions are met. If the company abides by the four conditions of Rule 10B-18 when it is repurchasing the shares, the SEC will not deem the transactions in violation of anti-fraud provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


   Understanding Rule 10b – 18  

Rule 10B-18 provides information about the manner, timing, price, and volume of repurchases by an issuer. While compliance with the rule is voluntary, if an issuer wants to reduce or eliminate their regulatory liability, they must satisfy each of the four conditions daily. Otherwise, repurchases will not fall under the safe harbor for that day.





Key Takeaways

Rule 10B-18 is a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rule that is intended to reduce liability for companies (and their affiliated purchasers) when the company repurchases shares of the company's common stock.Rule 10B-18 is considered a safe harbor provision; it is not mandatory that a company follows the conditions of the rule, but in order to reduce their liability, companies may adhere by its guidance regarding the manner, timing, price, and volume of repurchases.In addition to following the conditions laid out in the rule, a company must also report–quarterly and annually–more detailed information regarding share repurchases on additional SEC filings, including Form 10-Q, Form 10-K, and Form 20-F, in order to be in compliance.



The SEC instituted Rule 10B-18 in 1982. It was intended to help create a way for a company's board of directors to authorize the repurchase of a certain number of the company's shares. In 2003, the SEC amended the rule, adding additional requirements for companies. Companies must now disclose more detailed information regarding share repurchases on additional SEC filings, including Form 10-Q, Form 10-K, and Form 20-F.



There are four conditions that must for met in order for a company (or its affiliates) to reduce liability when repurchasing shares of the company's stock. First, the issuer or affiliate must purchase all shares from a single broker or deal during a single day. Second, there are certain requirements for the timing of the purchase. An issuer with an average daily trading volume (ADTV) that is less than $1 million per day or that has a public float value below $150 million cannot trade within the last 30 minutes of trading. Companies with higher average trading volume or public float value can trade until the last 10 minutes. Third, the issuer must repurchase at a price that does not exceed the highest independent bid or the last transaction price quoted. Finally, the issuer cannot purchase over 25% of the average daily volume.



In addition to meeting these four requirements, companies are also required to disclose certain information quarterly on Form 10-Q, and annually on Form 10-K. The company must provide a table showing several month-by-month statistics. These statistics include:



The total number of shares purchasedThe average price paid per shareThe total number of shares purchased under publicly-announced repurchase programsThe maximum number of shares (or maximum dollar amount) it can repurchase under these programs



Although Rule 10B-18 provides a safe harbor for companies as long as they abide by the rule's stipulations, the company must also report all repurchases in compliance with the various regulations. This safe harbor provision is not available if the company made repurchases in order to evade federal securities laws.
What Is Rule 10b5-1?  

Rule 10b5-1, established by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in 2000, allows insiders of publicly-traded corporations to set up a trading plan for selling stocks they own. It is a clarification of Rule 10b-5 (sometimes written as Rule 10b5), created under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, which is the primary vehicle for the investigation of securities fraud.



Rule 10b5-1 permits major holders to sell a predetermined number of shares at a predetermined time. Many corporate executives use 10b5-1 plans to avoid accusations of insider trading.





Key Takeaways

Rule 10b5-1 allows company insiders to set up a predetermined plan to sell company stocks in accordance with insider trading laws.The price, amount, and sales dates must be specified in advance and determined by a formula or metrics.Both the seller and the broker making the sales must not have access to any material nonpublic information (MNPI).


   Understanding Rule 10b5-1  

Rule 10b5-1 allows company insiders to make predetermined trades while following insider trading laws and avoiding insider trading accusations. It is recommended that companies permit an executive to either adopt or amend a 10b5-1 plan when its executives are allowed to trade the securities in tandem with their insider trading policy. Rule 10b5-1 stops any insiders from changing or adopting a plan if they are in possession of material nonpublic information (MNPI).



It is not uncommon to see a major shareholder sell some of their shares at regular intervals. A director of XYZ Corporation, for example, may choose to sell 5,000 shares of stock on the second Wednesday of every month. To avoid conflict, Rule 10b5-1 plans must be established when the individual is unaware of any MNPI. These plans usually exist as a contract between the insider and their broker.



Under Rule 10b5-1, directors and other major insiders in the company—large shareholders, officers, and others who have access to MNPI—can establish a written plan that details when they can buy or sell shares at a predetermined time on a scheduled basis. It is set up this way so that they are able to make these transactions when they are not in the vicinity of MNPI. This also allows companies to utilize 10b5-1 plans in large stock buybacks.


   Requirements for Rule 10b5-1  

There is a general overview and set planned guidelines for establishing a suitable Rule 10b5-1 plan. To be valid, the plan must follow three distinct criteria:



The price and amount must be specified (this may include a set price), and certain dates of sales or purchases must be noted.There must be a formula or metrics given for determining the amount, price, and date.The plan must give the broker the exclusive right to determine when to make sales or purchases, as long as the broker does so without any MNPI when the trades are being made.



For insiders to enter into a Rule 10b5-1 plan, they must not have any access to MNPI regarding anything about the company as well the company's securities.






There is nothing in the SEC laws that makes it necessary to disclose the use of Rule 10b5-1 to the public, but that doesn't mean companies shouldn't release the information anyway. Announcements of utilizing Rule 10b5-1 are useful in warding off public relations problems and helping investors understand the logistics behind certain insider trades.


   Amendments to Rule 105b-1  

On Dec. 14, 2022, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission adopted changes to Rule 10b5-1 that increased disclosure requirements for stock trades and gifts of securities. The amendments to rule 105b-1 require the person setting up trades to certify that they are not aware of any MNPI and that they are acting in good faith. The changes also added new conditions to the use of the affirmative defense to insider trading liability, including the establishment of a cooling-off period before any trading can commence.



SEC Chair Gary Gensler said that changes to the rule came after comments over its two decades of existence, with critics pointing out that insiders can take advantage of liability rules to trade while in possession of nonpublic information. According to Gensler, the newly adopted amendments "will help fill those potential gaps."




What Is the Purpose of Rule 105b-1?
Rule 105b-1 lets company insiders sell their company's stock, provided they set up a predetermined plan and certify that they do not have access to material nonpublic information about the company or its securities.




Who Is Affected by Rule 105b-1?
Rule 105b-1 applies to insiders in a publicly-traded company. These include directors and senior officers as well as entities and individuals that own more than 10% of the company's voting shares.




What Changes Were Made to Rule 105b-1?
In December 2022, the SEC adopted amendments to the rule that increase disclosure requirements and add conditions to the use of the affirmative defense to insider trading liability, including a cooling-off period before trading can begin.


   The Bottom Line  

Rule 10b5-1 allows insiders to sell company stock by setting up a predetermined plan that specifies in advance the share price, amount, and transaction date. The insider selling the stock and the broker carrying out the transaction must certify that they are not aware of any material nonpublic information (MNPI).
What Is Rule 144?  

Rule 144 is a regulation enforced by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that sets the conditions for the sale or resale of restricted, unregistered, and control securities.



Rule 144 provides an exemption from registration requirements for the sale of securities through the public markets if a number of specific conditions are met. The regulation applies to all types of sellers, in addition to issuers of securities, underwriters, and dealers.



The rule is designed to thwart insider trading and insure that the buyers of such securities receive adequate information.





Key Takeaways

Rule 144 was written to thwart insider trading and ensure that buyers of unregistered securities receive adequate information.The rule essentially regulates sales of securities that take place outside the public markets, which are regulated by their own set of SEC rules.It is intended to increase transparency and fairness in the sale of restricted and control securities in the public market. (Control securities are held by company insiders.)Rule 144 also regulates transactions in securities held by controlling or majority shareholders.Rule 144 mandates that five conditions be satisfied for the sale of securities outside the public markets.There are some exceptions to the rule.





The Cryptocurrency Exception

The world of cryptocurrency is currently lightly regulated. A bitcoin is not currently classified as a "security." That could change. The SEC is leading the push to bring cryptocurrency trading within its regulatory authority.


   Understanding Rule 144  

Rule 144 regulates transactions dealing with restricted, unregistered, and control securities. (Control securities are held by insiders or others with significant influence on the issuer.)



These types of securities are typically acquired over the counter (OTC) or through private sales. In some cases, they constitute a controlling stake in an issuing company.



Restricted securities can also be acquired through private placements or through stock benefit plans offered to a company's employees.



The SEC prohibits the resale of restricted, unregistered, and control securities, unless they are registered with the SEC prior to their sale or they are exempt from the registration requirements. The exemption requires that five specific conditions be met.





Exceptions to the Rule

If the seller of a covered security is not associated with the company that issued the shares and has owned the securities for more than one year, the five conditions of the rule are waived and the security can be sold without restrictions.Non-affiliated parties may sell covered securities if they were held for more than six months (rather than a full year, provided the current public information requirements are met.


   5 Conditions for Resale of Rule 144 Securities  

Five conditions must be met for restricted, unregistered, and control securities to be sold or resold.



The prescribed holding period must be met. For a public company, the holding period is six months, beginning on the date a holder purchased and paid for the securities. For a company that does not have to make filings with the SEC, the holding period is one year. The holding period requirements apply primarily to restricted securities, while the resale of control securities is subject to the other requirements under Rule 144.
There must be adequate current public information available to investors about a company, including historical financial statements, information about officers and directors, and a business description.
If a selling party is an affiliate of a company, he cannot resell more than 1% of the total outstanding shares during any three-month period. If a company's stock is listed on a stock exchange, only the greater of 1% of total outstanding shares, or the average of the previous four-week trading volume can be sold. For over-the-counter stocks, only the 1% rule applies.
All of the normal trading conditions that apply to any trade must be met. In particular, brokers cannot solicit buy orders, and they are not allowed to receive commissions in excess of their normal rates.
An affiliated seller must file a proposed sale notice if the sale value exceeds $50,000 during any three-month period, or if more than 5,000 shares are proposed for sale.






The holding period requirement under SEC Rule 144 depends on the type of issuer. Generally, the minimum holding period is one year. For reporting companies, the holding period can be as little as six months while for non-reporting companies, it can be up to two years.


   Rule 144 and Crypto Securities  

SEC Rule 144 applies to unregistered securities based on cryptocurrencies or blockchain-based tokens.



While tokens like Bitcoin are not currently classified as securities and would not be subject to Rule 144, financial products that offer interest, yield, or dividends based on lending or "staking" such crypto tokens may fall under the definition of securities.



The SEC is reportedly investigating several crypto exchanges including Kraken, Gemini, and Genesis, following the spectacular collapse of FTX. In particular, the SEC is looking into whether these and other exchanges broke the rules by illegally offering unregistered securities to U.S. customers.


  Are Cryptocurrencies Securities?  

If a security is determined to be a restricted security as defined by SEC Rule 144, it can only be resold under specific circumstances, including the passage of time, the filing of Form 144, and compliance with the quantity limitations imposed by the rule.



Crypto exchanges Genesis and Gemini were sued by the SEC in January of 2023 for the unregistered offer and sale of securities to customers through an interest-bearing product.



This highlights the increased scrutiny that the crypto industry is facing from regulators such as the SEC, which has been taking enforcement action against crypto companies that violate rules and has called for them to get into compliance with existing regulations.




What Are Restricted Securities Pursuant to Rule 144?
SEC Rule 144 covers restricted securities. Restricted securities are typically sold in a private placement and cannot be freely traded on stock exchanges.These shares are subject to resale and transfer restrictions which may include filing a registration statement with the SEC.




What Are Control Securities and Why Are They Subject to Rule 144?
Control securities are owned by corporate insiders or others with significant influence or control over the issuer of the securities.Such individuals or entities are known as affiliates (or affiliate persons), and their ownership of control securities is subject to additional restrictions and requirements under SEC regulations.




Why Was SEC Rule 144 Created?
The SEC crafted Rule 144 to regulate and provide a clearer framework for the resale and transfer of restricted and control securities.The rule is intended to prevent market manipulation via insider and unauthorized selling, and to protect investors by requiring that adequate information is disclosed to the public before securities can be sold.




Are Cryptocurrencies Subject to Rule 144?
Cryptocurrencies are not subject to Rule 144. In fact, their sale is lightly regulated by the SEC or any other government body. The SEC takes the position that the top five cryptocurrency exchanges, which are responsible for 99% of crypt trading, "likely are trading securities" and should be required to register with the SEC and comply with its regulations.Recent turmoil in the industry, including the collapse of FTX, is likely to increase pressure to regulate crypto trading.


   The Bottom Line  

SEC Rule 144 outlines the conditions under which restricted and control securities can be sold in the public market.



Rule 144 requires affiliates of an issuing company who want to sell their holdings to wait for at least a minimum holding period and comply with various reporting requirements and disclosures.



This regulation is intended to help prevent insider trading and, importantly, to protect investors by ensuring that information about the sale of securities is transparent and accurately disclosed to the market.
What Is Rule 144A?  

The term Rule 144A refers to a legal provision that amends restrictions placed on trades of privately placed securities. This safe harbor loosens restrictions set forth by Rule 144 under Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 required for sales of securities by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).



Known as the Private Resales of Securities to Institutions, Rule 144A was introduced in 2012 and allows these investments to be traded among qualified institutional buyers (QIB). It substantially increased the liquidity of the affected securities. It also drew concern that it may help facilitate fraudulent foreign offerings and reduce the range of securities on offer to the general public.





Key Takeaways

Rule 144A modifies restrictions for the purchase and sale of privately placed securities among qualified institutional buyers without the need for SEC registrations.According to the rule, sophisticated institutional investors don’t require as much information and protection as individual investors.Rule 144A shortens the holding periods of securities.Critics say the rule lacks transparency and doesn't clearly define what constitutes a qualified institutional buyer.Concerns endure that Rule 144A may give unscrupulous overseas companies access to the U.S. market without SEC scrutiny.


   Understanding Rule 144A  

Rule 144A was created in 2012 under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act of 2012. It allowed sales to take place to more sophisticated institutional investors, as they may not require the same type of information and protection as other investors. The Securities Act stipulates that securities issuers must register them with the SEC and provide extensive documentation through a filing with the agency before they can be offered to the general public.



A minimum level of public-accessible information is required of the selling party. For reporting companies, this issue is addressed as long as they are in compliance with their regular reporting minimums. For nonreporting companies (also called non-issuers), basic information regarding the company, such as company name and the nature of its business, must be publicly available.



Rule 144A provides a mechanism for the sale of securities that are privately placed to QIBs that do not—and are not required—to have an SEC registration in place. Instead, securities issuers are only required to provide whatever information is deemed necessary for the purchaser before making an investment. This creates a more efficient market for the sale of those securities.






A qualified investment buyer is an insurance company or entity that owns and invests a minimum of $100 million in securities owned by another individual or company.



The sale must be handled by a brokerage or other registered firm in a manner deemed routine for affiliate sales. This requires that no more than a normal commission be issued, where neither the broker nor the seller can be involved in the solicitation of the sale of those securities.


   Special Considerations  

To meet filing requirements, any affiliate sale of over 5,000 shares or over $50,000 during the course of a three-month span must be reported to the SEC on Form 144. Affiliate sales under both of these levels are not required to be filed with the SEC.



For affiliates, there is a limit on the number of transactions, referred to as the volume, that cannot be exceeded. This must amount to no more than 1% of the outstanding shares in a class over three months or the average weekly reported volume during the four-week period preceding the notice of sale on Form 144.



Rule 144A relaxed the holding period regulations for securities before they can be offered or sold to qualified institutional buyers. Rather than the customary two-year holding period, a minimum six-month period applies to a reporting company, and a minimum one-year period applies to issuers who are not required to meet reporting requirements. These periods begin on the day the securities in question were bought and considered paid in full.


   Criticism of Rule 144A  

Rule 144A succeeded in increasing non-SEC trading activity. This led to concern over trading that was all but invisible to individual investors as well as to some institutional ones. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) began to report Rule 144A trades in the corporate debt market in 2014 in order to bring more transparency to the market and to allow the reporting of valuation "for mark-to-market (MTM) purposes."



The SEC also responded to questions in 2017 about the definition of qualified institutional buyers allowed to participate in Rule 144A trades, and how they calculate the requirement that they own and invest on a discretionary basis at least $100 million in securities of unaffiliated issuers.



Concerns still endure about the effects of Rule 144A, including how it may allow unscrupulous overseas companies to fly under the regulatory radar when offering investments in the U.S. Critics say the rule ultimately creates a shadow market, allowing foreign companies to avoid the scrutiny of the SEC while opening the U.S. markets up to the possibility of fraud committed by these entities.
What Is the Rule of 70?  

The rule of 70, also known as doubling time, calculates the years it takes for an investment to double in value. The calculation is commonly used to compare investments with different annual interest rates.





Key Takeaways

The Rule of 70 is a calculation that determines how many years it takes for an investment to double in value based on a constant rate of return.Investors use this metric to evaluate various investments, including mutual fund returns and the growth rate for a retirement portfolio.The Rule of 70 is an estimate that assumes a constant growth rate that may fluctuate, and the calculation may prove inaccurate.


   How to Calculate the Rule of 70  

Obtain the annual rate of return or growth rate on the investment or variable.Divide 70 by the annual rate of growth or yield.



# of Years to Double an Investment = 70/Annual Rate of Return


   Examples of the Rule of 70  

At a 3% growth rate, a portfolio will double in 23.33 years because 70/3=23.33 At an 8% growth rate, a portfolio will double in 8.75 years because 70/8=8.75 At a 12% growth rate, a portfolio will double in 5.8 years because 70/12=5.8 


   What Does the Rule of 70 Tell You?  

The Rule of 70 helps investors determine the future value of an investment. Although considered a rough estimate, the rule provides the years it takes for an investment to double. The Rule of 70 is an accepted way to manage exponential growth concepts without complex mathematical procedures.



Investors can use this metric to compare investments with different growth rates or annual returns. If the calculation yields a result of 15 years, an investor looking to double his money in 10 years could make allocation changes to their portfolio to attempt to increase the rate of return.


   Rule of 70 vs. Real Growth  

The rule evaluates investments but can also estimate other economic factors such as population growth or gross domestic product (GDP). The Rule of 70 is an estimate based on a forecasted growth rate. If future rates fluctuate, the original calculation will be inaccurate.



As of March 2023, the population of the United States was approximately 336 million. A 2020 prediction estimates that the U.S. population will grow at a rate of .62% annually. Using the estimation of the Rule of 70, the population of the U.S. will double in 113 years.



Real growth figures dispute the use of the Rule of 70 in estimating population growth. In 1955, the population of the United States was approximately 172 million and is estimated to double by 2025 based on actual population counts and rates of growth. If the Rule of 70 was used in 1955 to predict the doubling of the population when the growth rate was 1.57%, the population would have doubled by 1999. 


   Compound Interest and the Rule of 70  

Compound interest is calculated on the initial principal and the accumulated interest of previous periods. The rate at which compound interest accrues depends on the frequency of compounding. The higher the number of compounding periods, the greater the compound interest.



Compound interest is a feature in calculating the long-term growth rates of investments and the various rules of doubling. If the interest earned is not reinvested, the number of years it'll take for the investment to double will be higher than a portfolio that reinvests the interest earned.



The Rule of 70 and any other doubling rules include estimates of growth rates or investment rates of return. As a result, the rule can generate inaccurate results with its limited ability to forecast future growth.




What Is a Limitation of the Rule of 70?
The Rule of 70 assumes a constant rate of growth or return. As a result, the rule can generate inaccurate results since it does not consider changes in future growth rates.




How Is the Rule of 70 Used In Economics?
The Rule of 70 can estimate how long it would take a country's gross domestic product (GDP) to double. Instead of estimating compound interest rates, the GDP growth rate is the divisor of the rule. For example, if the growth rate for China is estimated as 10%, the Rule of 70 predicts it would take seven years, or 70/10, for China's real GDP to double.




What Is the Difference Between the Rule of 70 and the Rules of 69 or 72?
The Rule of 72 or the Rule of 69 may also be used. The function is the same as the rule of 70 but uses 72 or 69, respectively, in place of 70 in the calculations. The Rule of 69 is often considered more accurate when addressing continuous compounding processes, and 72 may be more accurate for less frequent compounding intervals.


   The Bottom Line  

The Rule of 70 is a calculation that provides an estimate, based on a constant growth rate, of how many years it takes for an investment to double in value. Investors may use this calculation to evaluate the investment returns of mutual funds and retirement portfolios.
What Is the Rule of 72?  

The Rule of 72 is a quick, useful formula that is popularly used to estimate the number of years required to double the invested money at a given annual rate of return. Alternatively, it can compute the annual rate of compounded return from an investment given how many years it will take to double the investment.



While calculators and spreadsheet programs like Microsoft Excel have functions to accurately calculate the precise time required to double the invested money, the Rule of 72 comes in handy for mental calculations to quickly gauge an approximate value. For this reason, the Rule of 72 is often taught to beginning investors as it is easy to comprehend and calculate. The Security and Exchange Commission also cites the Rule of 72 in grade-level financial literacy resources.





Key Takeaways

The Rule of 72 is a simplified formula that calculates how long it'll take for an investment to double in value, based on its rate of return.The Rule of 72 applies to compounded interest rates and is reasonably accurate for interest rates that fall in the range of 6% and 10%.The Rule of 72 can be applied to anything that increases exponentially, such as GDP or inflation; it can also indicate the long-term effect of annual fees on an investment's growth.This estimation tool can also be used to estimate the rate of return needed for an investment to double given an investment period. For different situations, it's often better to use the Rule of 69, Rule of 70, or Rule of 73.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   The Formula for the Rule of 72  

The Rule of 72 can be leveraged in two different ways to determine an expected doubling period or required rate of return.



Years To Double: 72 / Expected Rate of Return



To calculate the time period an investment will double, divide the integer 72 by the expected rate of return. The formula relies on a single average rate over the life of the investment. The findings hold true for fractional results, as all decimals represent an additional portion of a year.



Expected Rate of Return: 72 / Years To Double



To calculate the expected rate of interest, divide the integer 72 by the number of years required to double your investment. The number of years does not need to be a whole number; the formula can handle fractions or portions of a year. In addition, the resulting expected rate of return assumes compounding interest at that rate over the entire holding period of an investment.






The Rule of 72 applies to cases of compound interest, not simple interest. Simple interest is determined by multiplying the daily interest rate by the principal amount and by the number of days that elapse between payments. Compound interest is calculated on both the initial principal and the accumulated interest of previous periods of a deposit.






   How to Use the Rule of 72  

The Rule of 72 could apply to anything that grows at a compounded rate, such as population, macroeconomic numbers, charges, or loans. If the gross domestic product (GDP) grows at 4% annually, the economy will be expected to double in 72 / 4% = 18 years.



With regards to the fee that eats into investment gains, the Rule of 72 can be used to demonstrate the long-term effects of these costs. A mutual fund that charges 3% in annual expense fees will reduce the investment principal to half in around 24 years. A borrower who pays 12% interest on their credit card (or any other form of loan that is charging compound interest) will double the amount they owe in six years.



The rule can also be used to find the amount of time it takes for money's value to halve due to inflation. If inflation is 6%, then a given purchasing power of the money will be worth half in around 12 years (72 / 6 = 12). If inflation decreases from 6% to 4%, an investment will be expected to lose half its value in 18 years, instead of 12 years.



Additionally, the Rule of 72 can be applied across all kinds of durations provided the rate of return is compounded annually. If the interest per quarter is 4% (but interest is only compounded annually), then it will take (72 / 4) = 18 quarters or 4.5 years to double the principal. If the population of a nation increases at the rate of 1% per month, it will double in 72 months, or six years.




Who Came Up With the Rule of 72?
The Rule of 72 dates back to 1494 when Luca Pacioli referenced the rule in his comprehensive mathematics book called Summa de Arithmetica. Pacioli makes no derivation or explanation of why the rule may work, so some suspect the rule pre-dates Pacioli's novel.




How Do You Calculate the Rule of 72?
Here's how the Rule of 72 works. You take the number 72 and divide it by the investment's projected annual return. The result is the number of years, approximately, it'll take for your money to double.For example, if an investment scheme promises an 8% annual compounded rate of return, it will take approximately nine years (72 / 8 = 9) to double the invested money. Note that a compound annual return of 8% is plugged into this equation as 8, and not 0.08, giving a result of nine years (and not 900).If it takes nine years to double a $1,000 investment, then the investment will grow to $2,000 in year 9, $4,000 in year 18, $8,000 in year 27, and so on.




How Accurate Is the Rule of 72?
The Rule of 72 formula provides a reasonably accurate, but approximate, timeline—reflecting the fact that it's a simplification of a more complex logarithmic equation. To get the exact doubling time, you'd need to do the entire calculation.The precise formula for calculating the exact doubling time for an investment earning a compounded interest rate of r% per period is:To find out exactly how long it would take to double an investment that returns 8% annually, you would use the following equation:T = ln(2) / ln (1 + (8 / 100)) = 9.006 yearsAs you can see, this result is very close to the approximate value obtained by (72 / 8) = 9 years.




What Is the Difference Between the Rule of 72 and the Rule of 73?
The rule of 72 primarily works with interest rates or rates of return that fall in the range of 6% and 10%. When dealing with rates outside this range, the rule can be adjusted by adding or subtracting 1 from 72 for every 3 points the interest rate diverges from the 8% threshold. For example, the rate of 11% annual compounding interest is 3 percentage points higher than 8%.Hence, adding 1 (for the 3 points higher than 8%) to 72 leads to using the rule of 73 for higher precision. For a 14% rate of return, it would be the rule of 74 (adding 2 for 6 percentage points higher), and for a 5% rate of return, it will mean reducing 1 (for 3 percentage points lower) to lead to the rule of 71.For example, say you have a very attractive investment offering a 22% rate of return. The basic rule of 72 says the initial investment will double in 3.27 years. However, since (22 – 8) is 14, and (14 ÷ 3) is 4.67 ≈ 5, the adjusted rule should use 72 + 5 = 77 for the numerator. This gives a value of 3.5 years, indicating that you'll have to wait an additional quarter to double your money compared to the result of 3.27 years obtained from the basic rule of 72. The period given by the logarithmic equation is 3.49, so the result obtained from the adjusted rule is more accurate.For daily or continuous compounding, using 69.3 in the numerator gives a more accurate result. Some people adjust this to 69 or 70 for the sake of easy calculations.
What Is Rule 72(t)?  

Rule 72(t) allows penalty-free withdrawals from IRA accounts and other tax-advantaged retirement accounts like 401(k) and 403(b) plans. It is issued by the Internal Revenue Service.



This rule allows account holders to benefit from their retirement savings before retirement age through early withdrawal without the otherwise required 10% penalty. The IRS still subjects the withdrawals to the account holder’s normal income tax rate.





Key Takeaways

Rule 72(t) allows you to take penalty-free early withdrawals from your IRA.There are other IRS exemptions that can be used for medical expenses, purchasing a home, and so on.Rule 72(t) withdrawals should be considered a last resort when all other options for reducing financial pressure (creditor negotiation, consolidation, bankruptcy, etc.) have been exhausted.


   Understanding Rule 72(t)  

Rule 72(t) actually refers to code 72(t), section 2, which specifies exceptions to the early-withdrawal tax that allow IRA owners to withdraw funds from their retirement account before age 59½, as long as certain qualifications, known as SEPP regulations, are met.



To take advantage of this rule, the owner of the retirement account must take at least five substantially equal periodic payments (SEPPs). The amount of the payments depends on the owner’s life expectancy as calculated through IRS-approved methods. You must also withdraw these funds according to a specific schedule, and the IRS offers three different methods for calculating your specific withdrawal schedule. You must adhere to the payment schedule for five years or until you reach age 59 1/2, whichever comes later (unless you are disabled or die).


   Calculation for Payment Amounts Under Rule 72(t)  

The amounts an account holder receives in the periodic payments enabled by rule 72(t) depend on life expectancy, which can be calculated through one of three IRS-approved methods:



The amortization methodThe minimum distribution (or the life expectancy method)The annuitization method



The amortization method determines yearly payment amounts by amortizing the balance of an IRA owner’s account over single or joint life expectancy. This method develops the largest and most reasonable amount an individual can remove, and the amount is fixed annually.



The minimum distribution method takes a dividing factor from the IRS’s single or joint life expectancy table, using it to divide the retirement account’s balance. This method is nearly the opposite of the amortization method, as the annual early withdrawal payments are likely to vary from year to year, though not substantially. The key difference between this method and the amortization method is the resulting payments with the minimum distribution method, as the name implies, are the lowest possible amounts that can be withdrawn.



The final IRS-approved calculation is the annuitization method, which uses an annuity factor method provided by the IRS to determine equivalent or nearly equivalent payments in accordance with the SEPP regulation. This method offers account holders a fixed annual payout, with the amount typically falling somewhere between the highest and lowest amount the account owner can withdraw.


  Example of Withdrawing Money Early   

As an example, assume a 53-year-old woman who has an IRA earning 1.5% annually with a balance of $250,000 wishes to withdraw money early under rule 72(t). Using the amortization method, the woman would receive approximately $10,042 in yearly payments. With the minimum distribution method, she would receive around $7,962 annually over a five-year period. Using the annuitization method, approximately $9,976 would be her annual payment amount.


   Cautions About Using Rule 72(t)  

Withdrawing money from a retirement account is a financial last resort. This is why the IRS has exceptions for specific circumstances like disability and illness. If you do not meet any of the criteria for other exceptions, then rule 72(t) can be used if you have exhausted all other avenues. It should not be used as an emergency fund strategy, as any withdrawals could affect your future financial stability significantly.
What Is the Rule of 78?  

The Rule of 78 is a method used by some lenders to calculate interest charges on a loan. The Rule of 78 requires the borrower to pay a greater portion of interest in the earlier part of a loan cycle, which decreases the potential savings for the borrower in paying off their loan.





Key Takeaways

The Rule of 78 is a method used by some lenders to calculate interest charges on a loan.The Rule of 78 allocates pre-calculated interest charges that favor the lender over the borrower for short-term loans or if a loan is paid off early.The Rule of 78 methodology gives added weight to months in the earlier cycle of a loan, so a greater portion of interest is paid earlier.


   Understanding the Rule of 78  

The Rule of 78 gives greater weight to months in the earlier part of a borrower’s loan cycle when calculating interest, which increases the profit for the lender. This type of interest calculation schedule is primarily used on fixed-rate non-revolving loans. The Rule of 78 is an important consideration for borrowers who potentially intend to pay off their loans early.






The Rule of 78 holds that the borrower must pay a greater portion of the interest rate in the earlier part of the loan cycle, which means the borrower will pay more than they would with a regular loan.


   Calculating Rule of 78 Loan Interest  

The Rule of 78 loan interest methodology is more complex than a simple annual percentage rate (APR) loan. In both types of loans, however, the borrower will pay the same amount of interest on the loan if they make payments for the full loan cycle with no pre-payment.



The Rule of 78 methodology gives added weight to months in the earlier cycle of a loan. It is often used by short-term installment lenders who provide loans to subprime borrowers.



In the case of a 12-month loan, a lender would sum the number of digits through 12 months in the following calculation:



1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 + 7 + 8 + 9 + 10 + 11 + 12 = 78



For a one year loan, the total number of digits is equal to 78, which explains the term the Rule of 78. For a two year loan, the total sum of the digits would be 300.



With the sum of the months calculated, the lender then weights the interest payments in reverse order applying greater weight to the earlier months. For a one-year loan, the weighting factor would be 12/78 of the total interest in the first month, 11/78 in the second month, 10/78 in the third month, etc. For a two-year loan, the weighting factor would be 24/300 in the first month, 23/300 in the second month, 22/300 in the third month, etc.


   Rule of 78 vs. Simple Interest  

When paying off a loan, the repayments are composed of two parts: the principal and the interest charged. The Rule of 78 weights the earlier payments with more interest than the later payments. If the loan is not terminated or prepaid early, the total interest paid between simple interest and the Rule of 78 will be equal.



However, because the Rule of 78 weights the earlier payments with more interest than a simple interest method, paying off a loan early will result in the borrower paying slightly more interest overall.



In 1992, the legislation made this type of financing illegal for loans in the United States with a duration of greater than 61 months. Certain states have adopted more stringent restrictions for loans less than 61 months in duration, while some states have outlawed the practice completely for any loan duration. Check with your state's Attorney General's office prior to entering into a loan agreement with a Rule of 78 provision if you are unsure.



The difference in savings from early prepayment on a Rule of 78 loan versus a simple interest loan is not significantly substantial in the case of shorter-term loans. For example, a borrower with a two-year $10,000 loan at a 5% fixed rate would pay total interest of $529.13 over the entire loan cycle for both a Rule of 78 and a simple interest loan.



In the first month of the Rule of 78 loan, the borrower would pay $42.33. In the first month of a simple interest loan, the interest is calculated as a percent of the outstanding principal, and the borrower would pay $41.67. A borrower who would like to pay the loan off after 12 months would be required to pay $5,124.71 for the simple interest loan and $5,126.98 for the Rule of 78 loan.
What is a Rule Of Thumb?  

A rule of thumb is a heuristic guideline that provides simplified advice or some basic rule-set regarding a particular subject or course of action. It is a general principle that gives practical instructions for accomplishing or approaching a certain task. Typically, rules of thumb develop as a result of practice and experience rather than through scientific research or a theoretical foundation.





Key Takeaways

A rule of thumb is an informal piece of practical advice providing simplified rules what apply in most situations.There are many rules of thumb in finance that give guidance on how much to save, how much to pay for a house, where to invest, and so on.Rules of thumb are not scientific and do not take into account the individual circumstances and needs of a person, so they may not be applicable to your particular situation.


   Understanding Rules Of Thumb  

Investors may be familiar with a variety of "financial rules of thumb" that are intended to help individuals learn, remember and apply financial guidelines. These rules of thumb address methods and procedures for saving, investing, purchasing a home and planning for retirement. Although a rule of thumb may be appropriate for a wide audience, it may not apply universally to every individual and unique set of circumstances.



The Rule of 72 is such a quick, useful formula that is popularly used to estimate the number of years required to double the invested money at a given annual rate of return. While calculators and spreadsheets have inbuilt functions to accurately calculate the precise time required to double the invested money, the Rule of 72 comes in handy for mental calculations to quickly gauge an approximate value.


   Examples of Financial Rules of Thumb  

There are several well-known financial rules of thumb that provide guidance for investors, including the following guidelines:



A home purchase should cost less than an amount equal to two and a half years of your annual income.
Save at least 10-15% of your take-home income for retirement.
Have at least five times your gross salary in life insurance death benefit.
Pay off your highest-interest credit cards first.
The stock market has a long-term average return of 10%.
You should have an emergency fund equal to six months' worth of household expenses.
Your age represents the percentage of bonds you should have in your portfolio.
Your age subtracted from 100 represents the percentage of stocks you should have in your portfolio.
A balanced portfolio is 60% stocks, 40% bonds.



There are also rules of thumb for determining how much net worth you will need to retire comfortably at a normal retirement age. Here is the calculation that Investopedia uses to determine your net worth:



If you are employed and earning income: ((your age) x (annual household income)) / 10.If you are not earning income or you are a student: ((your age – 27) x (annual household income)) / 10.


   Take Rules of Thumb With a Grain of Salt  

While rules of thumbs are useful to people as general guidelines, they may be too oversimplified in many situations, leading to underestimating or overestimating an individual’s needs. Rules of thumb do not account for specific circumstances or factors occurring at a particular time, or that could change over time, which should be considered for making sound financial decisions.



For example, in a tight job market, an emergency fund amounting to six months of household expenses does not consider the possibility of extended unemployment. As another example, buying life insurance based on a multiple of income does not account for the specific needs of the surviving family, which include a mortgage, the need for college funding and an extended survivor income for a non-working spouse.
What Is the Run Rate?  

The run rate refers to the financial performance of a company based on using current financial information as a predictor of future performance. The run rate functions as an extrapolation of current financial performance and assumes that current conditions will continue.



The run rate can also refer to the average annual dilution from company stock option grants over the most recent three-year period recorded in the annual report.





Key Takeaways

Run rate is the financial performance of a company, using current financial information as a predictor of future performance.The run rate assumes that current conditions will continue.Run rates are helpful in formulating performance estimates for companies that have been operating for short periods of time.Run rate may also refer to the average annual dilution from company stock option grants over the most recent three-year period recorded in the annual report.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   Understanding the Run Rate  

In the context of extrapolating future performance, the run rate takes current performance information and extends it over a longer period. For example, if a company has revenues of $100 million in its latest quarter, the CEO might infer that, based on the latest quarter, the company is operating at a $400 million run rate. When the data is used to create a yearly projection for potential performance, the process is referred to as annualizing.



A run rate can be helpful in the creation of performance estimates for companies that have been operating for short periods of time, such as less than a year, as well as newly created departments or profit centers. This can be especially true for a business experiencing its first profitable quarter. Additionally, the run rate can be helpful in cases where a fundamental business operation was changed in some way that was anticipated to affect all future performances of the associated business.


   Risks in Using the Run Rate  

The run rate can be a very deceiving metric, especially in seasonal industries. A great example of this is a retailer examining profit after the winter holiday season, as this is a time when many retailers experience higher sales volumes. If information based on holiday season sales was used to create a run rate, estimates of future performance may be incidentally inflated.



Additionally, the run rate is generally based only on the most current data and may not properly compensate for circumstantial changes that can cause an inaccurate overall picture. As an example, certain technology producers like Apple and Microsoft experience higher sales in correlation with a new product release. Using data only from the period immediately following a large product release may lead to skewed data.



Further, run rates do not account for large, one-time sales. For example, if a manufacturer lands a large contract that is paid for upfront, regardless of the timing of the delivery of the goods or services, this can cause sales numbers to be abnormally high for one reporting period based on this anomalous purchase.




How Is the Run Rate Arrived at?
In finance, the run rate extrapolates a firm's current performance in order to predict future performance with the assumption that current conditions will persist. The projections are usually for an entire year which is why this process is sometimes called "annualizing." For example, if a company has revenues of $100 million in its latest quarter, the CEO might infer that the company is operating at a $400 million annualized run rate.




How Can Using the Run Rate Be Helpful?
A run rate can be helpful in the creation of performance estimates for companies that have been operating for short periods of time, such as less than a year, as well as newly created departments or profit centers. Additionally, the run rate can be helpful in cases where a fundamental business operation was changed in some way that was anticipated to affect all future performances of the associated business.




What Are Some Drawbacks of Using the Run Rate?
The run rate can be a very deceiving metric, especially in seasonal industries, where estimates of future performance may be incorrectly inflated. Also, since it is generally based only on the most current data, it may not properly compensate for circumstantial changes that can cause an inaccurate overall picture. Furthermore, run rates do not account for large, one-time events which can skew projections.
What Is Runoff Insurance?  

Runoff insurance is an insurance policy provision that covers claims made against companies that have been acquired, merged, or have ceased operations. Runoff insurance, also known as closeout insurance, is purchased by the company being acquired and indemnifies—exempts from liability—the acquiring company from lawsuits against the directors and officers of the acquired company.





Key Takeaways

Runoff insurance protects an acquiring company from legal claims made against a company being acquired or a company that has merged or ceased operations.A runoff policy applies for a certain period after the policy is active acting as a claims-made policy rather than an occurrence policy.Runoff policies are similar to extended reporting period provisions except they apply to multi-year periods, not just one year.


   Understanding Runoff Insurance  

Acquiring a company means taking possession of its assets, but also its liabilities, including those only be discovered in the future. Obligations arise for many reasons. Third parties may feel that they were not treated fairly in contracts. Investors may feel upset with how the previous directors and officers ran the business. Competitors may claim infringement of intellectual property rights. An acquiring company might demand that the company being acquired purchase runoff insurance to protect itself from these liabilities.



A runoff policy is a type of claims-made policy rather than an occurrence policy. The difference in policy type is because the claim may be made several years after the incident that caused damage or loss, and occurrence policies provide coverage only during the period that the policy was active. The length of the runoff policy, referred to simply as the “runoff,” is typically set for several years after the policy becomes active. The provision is purchased by the acquiring company, and the purchase funds are often included in the acquisition price.



Professionals may also purchase runoff insurance to cover professional liabilities that occur after a business has closed. For example, a physician who closes their private practice may purchase runoff insurance to protect themselves from claims filed by previous patients. This type of policy is typically renewed until the statute of limitations on filing a claim has passed. If the business continues to offer services, its policies typically extend indemnification making the purchase of a runoff provision unnecessary.






The following insurance policies should have a runoff provision: directors and officers (D&O) insurance, fiduciary liability insurance, professional liability (E&O) insurance, and employment practices liability (EPL) insurance.


   Runoff Insurance Example  

Consider a hypothetical runoff policy written for a term between Jan. 1, 2017, and Jan. 1, 2018. In this situation, coverage will apply to all claims caused by wrongful acts committed between Jan. 1, 2017, and Jan. 1, 2018, that are reported to the insurer from Jan. 1, 2018, to Jan. 1, 2023. That is, the five years immediately following the end of the policy term.





$402 billion

The North American runoff reserve in 2021, per PricewaterhouseCoopers' Global Insurance Runoff Survey 2021—compared to $302 billion for the U.K. and Continental Europe Markets.


   Special Considerations  

Although runoff insurance provisions function similarly to extended reporting period (ERP) provisions, there are several differences. First, ERPs are typically only for one-year terms, whereas runoff provisions normally encompass multi-year periods. Second, ERPs are frequently purchased when the insured individual switches from one claims-made insurer to another, whereas runoff provisions are used when one insured is acquired by or merges with another.
What Is the Russell 1000 Index?  

The Russell 1000 Index is a stock market index used as a benchmark by investors. It is a subset of the larger Russell 3000 Index and represents the 1000 top companies by market capitalization in the United States. The Russell 1000 is owned and operated by FTSE Russell Group and based in the United Kingdom. The index is considered a bellwether index for large-cap investing.





Key Takeaways

The Russell 1000 Index represents the top 1000 companies by market capitalization in the United States.The index is a subset of the Russell 3000 Index.The Russell 1000 index comprises about 93% of the total market cap of all listed stocks in the U.S. equity market.Performance and characteristics of the index are provided monthly by FTSE Russell.


   Understanding the Russell 1000 Index  

The Russell 1000 was launched on Jan. 1, 1984, by FTSE Russell, which also manages the Russell 3000 and Russell 2000. A subset of the Russell 3000 index, the Russell 1000 is market capitalization-weighted where the largest companies constitute the largest percentages in the index and will affect performance more than the smallest Index members.



The index consists of approximately 93% of the total market capitalization of all listed stocks in the U.S. equity market. Its components are reconstituted annually in May. However, newly listed stocks with initial public offerings (IPOs) are considered for inclusion quarterly.


   Top Holdings of the Russell 1000 Index  

To determine the holdings of the Russell 1000, the company ranks all of the stocks included in the Russell 3000 by market capitalization and identifies the market cap breakpoint of the 1,000th stock ranking.



This breakpoint is the primary market capitalization used to determine index eligibility. Many stocks are swapped between the Russell 1000 and Russell 2000 at the annual reconstitution however variation around the market cap breakpoint is the determining factor.



As of May 31, 2023, the top 10 Russell 1000 index constituents include:



Apple (AAPL)
Microsoft (MSFT)
Amazon (AMZN)
Nvidia (NVDA)
Alphabet Class A (GOOGL)
Alphabet Class C (GOOG)
Meta (META)
Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.B)
Tesla (TSLA)
Unitedhealth Group (UNH)


   Performance of the Russell 1000 Index  

Performance and characteristics of the Russell 1000 Index are provided monthly by FTSE Russell. As of Dec. 31, 2022, the Russell 1000 has 1,010 holdings, the average market cap was $591.44 billion, and the median market cap was $11.81 billion. The annual return for the Russell 1000 Index was -19.13% in 2022 and the average 3-year return was 12.45%.


   How to Invest in the Russell 1000 Index  

Investors can purchase shares of the Russell 1000 index through a mutual fund or an exchange-traded fund allocated by type and sector. Investors can who don't want to invest directly in the index may buy shares in passively managed index exchange-traded funds (ETFs) offered by iShares, including the iShares Russell 1000 Index ETF (IWB) and the iShares Russell 1000 Value ETF (IWD) for large-cap and mid to lower-cap portfolios:


 iShares Russell 1000 Index ETF (IWB) 

Many investors prefer the Russell 1000 for large-cap portfolio exposure. The iShares Russell 1000 Index ETF is one of the leading funds offering comprehensive investment in all of the Russell 1000 components. IWB is an index fund that seeks to match the holdings and return of the Russell 1000 Index.



The fund was established on May 15, 2000, and the ETF trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The total assets under management (AUM) as of June 30, 2023, were $30.68 billion.


 iShares Russell 1000 Value ETF (IWD) 

The iShares Russell 1000 Value ETF allows investors to track both mid and large-cap U.S. equities based on the Russell 1000 index. The ETF was launched on May 22, 2000. The ETF trades on the NYSE and as of June 30, 2023, AUM was $51.09 billion.


   Russell 1000 Index Variations  

FTSE Russell also offers several index variations derived from the Russell 1000. These variations include the:



Russell 1000 ValueRussell 1000 GrowthRussell 1000 DefensiveRussell 1000 DynamicRussell 1000 Growth-DefensiveRussell 1000 Growth-DynamicRussell 1000 Value-DefensiveRussell 1000 Value-Dynamic


   Russell 1000 Index vs. Dow Jones Industrial Average vs. Standard & Poor's 500 Index  

The Russell 1000 is a much broader index than the often-quoted Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) and Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Index, although all three are considered large-cap stock benchmarks.



The DJIA, which is also known as the Dow 30, tracks the largest 30 blue-chip stocks listed on the NYSE and the Nasdaq. Transport and utility companies are excluded from the index. It is the second-oldest stock market index in the United States and generally serves as a broad representation of the U.S. economy.



The S&P 500 is one of the most commonly used indexes to measure the U.S. economy and large-cap companies in the U.S. It is made of 500 of the largest companies in the country.




What Is the Russell 2000 Index?
The Russell 2000 Index is a small-cap stock market index that includes the smallest 2,000 stocks in the Russell 3000 Index.




What Factors Determine Which Stocks are Added To the Russell 100O Index?
Stocks are either added or subtracted from indexes based on several criteria including market capitalization, share price, and trading volume.




Does the Russell 1000 Index Pay a Dividend?
As of May 31, 2023, the dividend yield for the Russell 1000 was 1.60%.


   The Bottom Line  

The Russell 1000 is owned and operated by FTSE Russell Group, based in the United Kingdom. The Russell 1000 Index is a subset of the larger Russell 3000 Index and represents the 1000 top companies by market capitalization in the United States. As of December 2022, the Russell 1000 index comprised 93% of the total market capitalization of all listed stocks in the U.S. equity market.
What Is the Russell 2000 Index?  

The term Russell 2000 Index refers to a stock market index that measures the performance of the 2,000 smaller companies included in the Russell 3000 Index. The Russell 2000 is managed by London's FTSE Russell Group and is widely regarded as a bellwether of the U.S. economy because of its focus on smaller companies that focus on the U.S. market.



Many investors compare small-cap mutual funds against the index's movement as it is seen as a reflection of opportunities in that entire sub-section of the market than narrower indices, which may contain biases or more stock-specific risks that can distort performance.





Key Takeaways

The Russell 2000 index is a market index comprised of 2,000 small-cap companies.The index was launched in 1984 by the Frank Russell Company and is now managed by FTSE Russell.The index is frequently used as a benchmark for measuring the performance of small-cap mutual funds.Many investors see the index's breadth as giving it an edge over narrower indexes of small-cap stocks.Investors can replicate the returns of the Russell 2000 Index by investing in an index-based mutual fund, or exchange-traded fund that tracks the index.


   Understanding the Russell 2000 Index  

The Russell 2000 Index was launched in 1984 by the Frank Russell Company. It is a U.S. index and is managed by FTSE Russell, which is a subsidiary of the London Stock Exchange (LSE) Group. The index is comprised of 2,000 small-cap companies.



The index is the most widely quoted measure of the overall performance of small-cap to mid-cap stocks. It represents approximately 7% of the total Russell 3000 market capitalization. It is made up of the bottom two-thirds in terms of company size of the Russell 3000 index. The larger index reflects the movements of nearly 98% of all publicly traded U.S. stocks.



As of May 31, 2023, the index's top three holdings were Super Micro Computer, Shockwave Medical, and Inspire Medical Systems. It is highest weighted in healthcare, followed by industrials and financials.



Mutual fund investors favor the Russell 2000 Index because it reflects the investment opportunity presented by the entire market rather than opportunities offered by narrower indices, which may contain bias or more stock-specific risk that can distort a fund manager’s performance. It's no surprise that many mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) are tied to or based on the Russell 2000.






   Russell 2000 Key Metrics  

As of May 31, 2023, the average value for a company on the Russell 2000 was $2.96 billion while the median market cap was $0.93 billion. The largest stock by market cap on the index was $12.01 billion. The Russell 2000 first traded above the 1,000 level on May 20, 2013.



Two sub-indexes of the Russell 2000 have been created to track the performance of companies within it that contain special characteristics that are desired by certain types of investors:



The Russell 2000 Growth Index measures the performance of Russell 2000 companies with higher price-to-value ratios and higher forecasted growth values.
The Russell 2000 Value Index measures the performance of Russell 2000 companies with lower price-to-book (P/B) ratios and lower forecasted growth values.






The smallest 1,000 companies in the Russell 2000 make up the Russell 1000 Microcap Index.
The Russell 2000 is, itself, composed of the two-thousand smallest companies in the broad Russell 3000 Index.


   Special Considerations  

The Russell 2000 Index is market cap-weighted, adjusted by each company's number of shares outstanding. This means that a member stock’s last sale price as well as the number of shares that can actually be traded (rather than the company’s entire market cap) influence the index.



The other big difference between the Russell 2000 and other major indices is that it tracks small-cap stocks. The S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) indices, on the other hand, track large-cap stocks.



The index's returns can be replicated by investors who take the trouble to create a sizeable and complex portfolio that mirrors the index. However, there are far easier ways to get the same returns. For instance, investors can use index futures or index-based mutual funds that track the Russell 2000. The most popular option is an ETF. The most heavily traded of the ETFs is the iShares Russell 2000 index ETF (IWM).




What Are the Russell 2000's Top Holdings?
As of May 31, 2023, the top 10 holdings in the Russell 2000 Index by market capitalization included:Super Micro Computer (SMCI)ShockWave Medical (SWAV)Inspire Medical Systems (INSP)Apellis Pharmaceuticals. (APLS)Emcor Group (EME)Saia (SAIA)Iridium Communications (IRDM)Karuna Therapeutics (KRTX)Texas Roadhouse (TXRH)Celsius Holdings (CELH)




How Can I Invest in the Russell 2000?
Ordinary investors can invest in the Russell 2000 via index ETFs that track it, such as the BlackRock iShares Russell 2000 ETF (IWM) or Vanguard's Russell 2000 ETF (VTWO). There are also several Russell 2000 index mutual funds. More sophisticated investors may also trade Russell 2000 Index futures contracts.




How Does the Russell 2000 Differ From the S&P 500 Index?
The Russell 2000 is an index that tracks two thousand small-cap companies, while the S&P 500 tracks five hundred large-cap companies. Therefore, the two differ in both the number of stocks in the index and the sizes of those companies. Because of this, there is not much overlap, if any, between the stocks held in each index.Both the S&P 500 and Russell 2000 indexes are market-cap-weighted. However, unlike the S&P 500 index, the securities in the Russell 2000 index are not selected by a committee. Instead, the holdings are determined through a formula based on their market cap and current index membership.




Why Is the Russell 2000 Annual Reconstitution Important?
The Russell 2000 announces changes to the small-cap index between May and June of each year. Because it is closely followed by mutual funds managers and individual investors, speculation as to which companies will be added can cause a jolt in short-term demand.




What Are the Small-Cap Subindexes of the Russell 2000?
There are a number of subindexes within the Russell 2000. The Russell 2000 Value Index tracks the performance of companies with lower price-to-book ratios, which shows a company’s market price relative to its balance sheet. The Russell 2000 Growth Index is a subset of companies with higher price-to-value ratios, or those expected to have higher growth values in the future.


   The Bottom Line  

The Russell 2000 is an index of 2,000 small-cap companies that was first launched in 1984. It is widely used as a benchmark for U.S. small-cap stocks. The index is comprised of the 2,000 smallest companies in the Russell 3000, which itself covers roughly 98% of the stocks publicly traded in the U.S. The Russell 2000 is rebalanced every June and new companies are included or deleted from the index.
What Is the Russell 3000 Index?  

The Russell 3000 Index is part of the FTSE Russell that provides exposure to the U.S. stock market. Its date of inception is Jan. 1, 1984. The index measures the performance of the largest 3,000 U.S. companies representing approximately 96% of the investable U.S. equity market.





Key Takeaways

The Russell 3000 Index is part of the FTSE Russell group.The index measures the performance of the largest 3,000 U.S. companies representing approximately 96% of the investable U.S. equity market.The Russell 3000 Index is the basis for the large-cap Russell 1000 and the small-cap Russell 2000 index.Large-cap stocks direct a majority of the index’s performance.


   Understanding the Russell 3000 Index  

The Russell 3000 Index is a building block for the large-cap Russell 1000 and the small-cap Russell 2000 index. The largest 1,000 stocks indexed in the Russell 3000 constitute the Russell 1000, while the Russell 2000 is a subset of the smallest 2,000 components of the Russell 3000.



The Russell 3000 Index is constructed to provide a comprehensive, unbiased, and stable barometer of the broad market and is reconstituted annually to ensure that new and growing equities are included. Securities in the financial, consumer discretionary, health care, and technology sectors represent a significant portion of the underlying index.






As of May 31, 2023, the average market capitalization of the Russell 3000 stock holdings was nearly $559.34 billion. The index had a total of 2,911 constituents.


   Russell 3000 Top Holdings  







Company
Sector


Apple (AAPL)
Technology


Microsoft (MSFT)
Technology


Amazon (AMZN)
Consumer Discretionary


Nvidia (NVDA)
Technology


Alphabet Class A (GOOGL)
Technology


Alphabet Class C (GOOG)
Technology


Meta (META)
Technology


Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.B)
Financials


Tesla (TSLA)
Consumer Discretionary


UnitedHealth Group (UNH)
Health Care



Source: FTSE Russell - Russell 3000 Factsheet 


   Russell Index 3000 Reconstitution  

The Russell U.S. Indexes are designed to reflect the ever-changing U.S. equity market, and the annual reconstitution process is critical to maintaining accurate representation. When the indexes are reconstituted, the breakpoints among large-cap, mid-cap, and small-cap stocks are redefined to ensure market changes that have occurred in the preceding year are captured.



Companies are evaluated to determine where they lie along the investment spectrum from value to growth. Companies will be added to, removed, or swapped among the Russell 3000, 2000, and 1000. Stocks in the Russell 3000 index are reconstituted once a year, on the last Friday in June.


   Investing in the Russell 3000 Index  

FTSE Russell Group does not offer direct investment opportunities. Investors can purchase individual shares of each company represented in the Russell 3000 index, but many financial institutions offer exchange-traded funds (ETFs) or index funds that mimic the performance of the Russell 3000 and contain its component stocks.


   Russell 3000 vs. Other Indexes  

The S&P 500 Index tracks the largest 500 publicly traded companies, with exposure to 80% of U.S. stocks, compared to the Russell 3000’s 96%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) measures the performance of 30 large companies covering all sectors except transportation and utilities. 



The Nasdaq Composite Index measures stocks listed exclusively on the Nasdaq exchange. There are over 3,000 securities listed on the Nasdaq composite, which gives it a broader exposure than the S&P 500 or the DJIA, but weighs heavily in the technology sector.


   Limitations of the Russell 3000 Index  

Large-cap stocks direct a majority of the index’s performance, and the returns of other segments are overlooked.Limits an investor's portfolio to domestic stocks without investment in other assets.The index data is only updated quarterly or annually.




Can Individuals Invest Directly in an Index?
Investors cannot invest directly in a stock index, such as the Russell 3000 or the S&P 500 but can invest in an index fund or ETF that tracks the performance of the target index.




How Are Stocks Evaluated for Inclusion in the Russell 3000?
FTSE Russell calculates the total market capitalization of each stock to determine whether it is large enough to include in the Russell indices. Total market capitalization is determined by multiplying total outstanding shares by the market price as of the rank day for stocks considered at annual reconstitution.




What Is an Index Fund?
An index fund is a type of mutual fund or ETF with a portfolio constructed to track the components of a financial market index, such as the Russell 3000.


   The Bottom Line  

The Russell 3000 Index, established in 1984, measures the performance of the largest 3,000 U.S. companies representing approximately 96% of the investable U.S. equity market. Large-cap stocks direct the index’s performance and include holdings such as Apple, Microsoft, and Meta.
