What Is a C Corporation?  

A C corporation (or C corp) is a legal structure for a corporation in which the owners, or shareholders, are taxed separately from the entity. C corporations, the most prevalent of corporations, are also subject to corporate income taxation. The taxing of profits from the business is at both corporate and personal levels, creating a double taxation situation.



C corps can be compared with S corporations and limited liability companies (LLCs), which also separate a company's assets from its owners, but with different legal structures and tax treatment.  A newer type of organization is the B-corporation (or benefit corporation), which is a for-profit firm but different from C corps in purpose, accountability, and transparency, but aren’t different in how they’re taxed.





Key Takeaways

A C corporation legally separates owners' or shareholders' assets and income from that of the corporation.C corporations limit the liability of investors and firm owners since the most that they can lose in the business's failure is the amount they have invested in it.C corporations are mandated to hold annual meetings and have a board of directors that is voted on by shareholders.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   How C Corporations Work  

C corporations can pay corporate taxes on earnings before distributing their profits to their shareholders in the form of dividends if they choose to do so. Individual shareholders are then subject to personal income taxes on the dividends they receive. Double taxation is an unfavorable outcome but the ability to reinvest earnings after taxes in the company's projects at a lower corporate tax rate is an advantage.



Another clear advantage is the separation between management and the owners or shareholders. This allows longer continuity of C corporations beyond the life of the owners, which can include partial owners called shareholders. This allows the institutionalization of these corporations and the possibility of passive income through ownership for the owners.



A C corporation is required to hold at least one meeting each year for shareholders and directors. Minutes must be maintained to display transparency in business operations. A C corporation must keep voting records of the company's directors and a list of the owners' names and ownership percentages. Further, the business must have company bylaws on the premises of the primary business location. C corporations will file annual reports, financial disclosure reports, and financial statements.


   How to Create a C Corporation  

Creating a C corporation is similar to the process of formalizing other types of business entities. These are the procedures for establishing one:



Choose and register an unregistered business name.
File the articles of incorporation with the Secretary of State according to the laws of that state.
Next, C corporations offer stock to shareholders, who become owners of the corporation.
Next, all C corporations must file Form SS-4 to obtain an employer identification number (EIN). Although requirements vary across jurisdictions, C corporations are required to submit state, income, payroll, unemployment, and disability taxes. There may be other regulatory requirements, depending on what business the new company works in.
In addition to registration and tax requirements, corporations must establish a board of directors to oversee management and the operation of the entire corporation. Appointing a board of directors seeks to resolve the principal-agent dilemma, in which moral hazard and conflicts of interest arise when an agent works on behalf of a principal.






C corporations are the most common type of corporation, versus S corporations or LLCs.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a C Corporation  

C corporations limit the personal liability of the directors, shareholders, employees, and officers. In this way, the legal obligations of the business cannot become a personal debt obligation of any individual associated with the company. The C corporation continues to exist as owners change and members of management are replaced.



A C corporation can have many owners and shareholders. However, it is required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) upon reaching specific thresholds. The ability to offer shares of stock allows the corporation to obtain large amounts of capital which may fund new projects and future expansions.



However, there are some drawbacks. Filing the articles of incorporation for a C corp can be more expensive than other business structures, and incur greater legal fees. They are also subject to greater regulatory scrutiny, which can increase the company's legal expenses.



There are also tax considerations. The profits of a C corporation are effectively taxed twice, first when the company files its income taxes, and again when those profits are distributed as dividends. And, unlike an S corp, shareholders in a C corporation cannot deduct business losses on their tax returns.




Pros and Cons of C Corporations

Pros

Limited liability for directors, shareholders, and other company officers.
C corps can raise capital by issuing and selling shares of stock.



Cons

C corporations must register with the SEC upon reaching certain thresholds.
They are subject to greater regulation than other business structures, incurring higher legal fees.
Shareholders cannot deduct their losses, and business profits are double-taxed as dividends are issued.





   C Corporation vs. S Corporation  

An S corporation is another type of business structure that allows a company to pass its income, deductions, and losses to its shareholders. Both a C corp and an S corp offer limited liability protection, and the process of incorporation is similar for both. The main differences relate to taxation and ownership.



As explained above, one major disadvantage for C corporations is that profits are effectively taxed twice, first on the company's income taxes, and again when shareholders receive dividends. An S corporation is a "pass-through" entity, meaning that it does not pay corporate income taxes. Instead, profits are taxed at the shareholder level.



S corporations also have greater restrictions on ownership. While a C corporation can have an unlimited number of shareholders, an S corporation can have no more than 100 shareholders. In addition, an S corp cannot be owned by a C corp, other S corps, or a limited liability entity.


   Tax Considerations  

President Biden's American Jobs Plan increases the tax rate for C corporations in 2022. In tax years beginning after December 31, 2021, the tax rate will increase from 21% to 28%.



The taxes are more complicated for tax years that started in 2021 but end in 2022. In that case, C corporations will pay 21%, plus an additional 7% for any income they earned in 2022.




What Is the Difference Between a C Corporation and an S Corporation?
An S corporation is similar to a C corporation, in that both allow the owners and officers of a business to be legally distinct from the business itself. However, there are important differences with regard to taxation: An S corp is a "pass-through" entity, meaning that it can be used to pass profits and tax credits on to its shareholders. The profits of a C corp are taxed twice, first as corporate income and again as shareholder dividends.




What Is the Difference Between an LLC and a C Corporation?
A limited liability company, or LLC, is another business structure that shields its owners from the liabilities of the business entity. However, an LLC is more suited to a small business or sole proprietorship. Unlike a C corporation, the profits of an LLC are not taxed directly but are passed on directly to the company's members.




How Do You Report Income From a C Corporation?
A C corporation should use IRS Form 1120 to report its corporate income taxes. The company may also have employment, Social Security, or Medicare tax liabilities and these can increase the cost of filing taxes as well compared to the other forms of companies.


   The Bottom Line  

A C corporation is a business structure that allows the owners of a business to become legally separate from the business itself. This allows a company to issue shares and pass on profits while limiting the liability of the shareholders and directors.
What Is C-Suite?  

C-suite, or C-level, is widely-used vernacular describing the upper echelons of a corporation's senior executives and managers.



C-suite gets its name from the titles of top senior executives, which tend to start with the letter C, for "chief," as in chief executive officer (CEO), chief financial officer (CFO), chief operating officer (COO), and chief information officer (CIO).





Key Takeaways

"C-suite" refers to the executive-level managers within a company.Common c-suite executives include chief executive officer (CEO), chief financial officer (CFO), chief operating officer (COO), and chief information officer (CIO).C-level members work together to ensure a company stays true to its established plans and policies.Historically there are more men in C-Suite positions than women.C-suite execs often work long hours and have high-stress jobs, but usually, these jobs come with extremely lucrative compensation packages.












Michela Buttignol / Investopedia


   Understanding the C-Suite  

The C-suite is deemed the most important and influential group of individuals within a company. Reaching this high echelon typically requires a plethora of experience and finely-honed leadership skills. While many C-level executives formerly relied on functional know-how and technical skills to climb the lower rungs of the corporate ladder, most have cultivated more visionary perspectives needed to make sound upper management decisions.



The CEO, CFO, and COO most frequently come to mind when talking about the C-suite. However, several other positions fall into this executive level. Other C-Suite officers include:



Chief Compliance Officer (CCO)Chief Human Resources Manager (CHRM)Chief Security Officer (CSO)Chief Green Officer (CGO)Chief Analytics Officer (CAO)Chief Marketing Officer (CMO)Chief Data Officer (CDO)


  Chief Executive Officer (CEO)  

Invariably the highest-level corporate executive, the CEO, traditionally serves as the face of the company and frequently consults other C-suite members for advice on major decisions. CEOs can come from any career background, as long as they have cultivated substantial leadership and decision-making skills along their career paths.


  Chief Financial Officer (CFO)  

The CFO position represents the top of the corporate ladder for financial analysts and accountants striving for upward mobility in the financial industry. Portfolio management, accounting, investment research, and financial analysis are the prime skills that CFOs must possess. CFOs have global mindsets and work closely with CEOs to source new business opportunities while weighing each potential venture's financial risks and benefits.


  Chief Information Officer (CIO)  

A leader in information technology, the CIO usually starts as a business analyst, then works towards C-level glory while developing technical skills in disciplines such as programming, coding, project management, and mapping. CIOs are usually skilled at applying these functional skills to risk management, business strategy, and finance activities. In many companies, CIOs may also be referred to as the chief technology officers (CTOs), although some companies may host both positions.






The number of C-level positions varies, depending on variables such as a company's size, mission, and sector. While larger companies may require both a CHRM and a COO, smaller operations may only need a COO to oversee human resources activities.


  Chief Operating Officer (COO)  

As the human resources (HR) C-level executive, the COO ensures a company's operations run smoothly. Their focus is on areas such as recruitment, training, payroll, legal, and administrative services. The COO is usually second in command to the CEO.


  Chief Marketing Officer (CMO)  

The CMO typically works its way up to the C-suite from sales or marketing roles. These execs are skilled at managing social innovation and product development initiatives across both brick-and-mortar establishments and electronic platforms—the latter of which is highly essential in today's digital era.


  Chief Technology Officer (CTO)  

A chief technology officer (CTO) is the executive in charge of an organization's technological needs as well as its research and development (R&D). Also known as a chief technical officer, this individual examines an organization's short- and long-term needs and utilizes capital to make investments designed to help the organization reach its objectives. The CTO usually reports directly to the chief executive officer (CEO) of the firm.


   Responsibilities at the C-Level  

C-level members work in concert to ensure a company’s strategies and operations align with its established plans and policies. With public companies, activities that don't lean toward increased profits for shareholders are routinely corrected under the purview of C-level management personnel.



C-suite execs occupy stressful high-stakes positions and are thus rewarded with high compensation packages.




Which Positions Are Part of the C-Suite?
The C-suite refers to a company's top management positions, where the "C" stands for "chief." Various chief officers (e.g., CEO, CIO, CFO, etc.) are the occupants of the C-suite. These individuals, while highly paid and influential managers, are still employees of the firm. The number of C-level positions varies by firm, depending on variables such as a company's size, mission, and sector. 




Are Most C-Suite Executives Men?
Yes. Historically, only men occupied top management positions in firms. Over the past few decades, this has changed a bit. Still, a 2021 McKinsey & Company report found that women hold less than 25% of C-Suite positions. Among Fortune 500 companies, only 8.2% are female CEOs.




How Can One Start a Career That Ends in the C-Suite?
There isn’t a standard road map for reaching the C-suite. For some, being proactive and thoughtful about formulating your career path will be essential, while others may get by simply through being aggressive and rubbing elbows with the right people. In any case, hard work and a skilled track record are a must, and there’s no room for complacency. Having proper credentials such as an MBA from a top business school is also a plus.




What Is Below the C-Suite?
The organizational structure of a company will vary, but typically the level below the C-Suite will feature top managers such as managing directors, senior vice presidents (SVPs), and division heads.




Which Is the Highest-Paid C-Suite Position?
According to Salary.com, the highest paid C-Suite positions in 2021 were:CEO - $754,700 (median salary)COO - $457,500CFO - $363,500CIO/CTO - $250,000CMO - $233,750
What Is a Call?  

A call, in finance, will usually mean one of two things.



A call option is a derivatives contract giving the owner the right, but not the obligation, to buy a specified amount of an underlying security at a specified price within a specified time. 
A call auction occurs over a set time when buyers set a maximum acceptable price to buy, and sellers set the minimum satisfactory price to sell a security on an exchange. Matching buyers and sellers in this process increases liquidity and decreases volatility. The auction is sometimes referred to as a call market.



"Call" may alternatively refer to a company's earnings call, or when an issuer of debt securities redeems (calls back) their bonds.





Key Takeaways

A call can refer to either a call auction or a call option.A call option grants the right, but not the obligation, for a buyer to purchase an underlying instrument at a given strike price within a given timeframe.Call options are commonly used for speculating on up-moves, hedging, or writing covered calls.The call auction is a type of trading where prices are determined by trading during a specified time and period.A call auction is a trading method used in illiquid markets to determine security prices.


   Call Options  

For call options, the underlying instrument could be a stock, bond, foreign currency, commodity, or any other traded instrument. The call owner has the right, but not the obligation, to buy the underlying securities instrument at a given strike price within a given period. The seller of an option is sometimes termed as the writer. A seller must fulfill the contract, delivering the underlying asset if the option is exercised.



When the strike price on the call is less than the market price on the exercise date, the holder of the option can use their call option to buy the instrument at the lower strike price. If the market price is less than the strike price, the call expires unused and worthless. A call option can also be sold before the maturity date if it has intrinsic value based on the market's movements.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The put option is effectively the opposite of a call option. The put owner holds the right, but not the obligation, to sell an underlying instrument at the given strike price and period. Derivatives traders often combine calls and put to increase, decrease, or otherwise manage, the amount of risk that they take.


   Example of a Call Option  

Suppose a trader buys a call option with a premium of $2 for Apple's shares at a strike price of $100. The option is set to expire a month later. The call option gives her the right, but not the obligation, to purchase the Cupertino company's shares, which are trading at $120 when the option was written, for $100 a month later. The option will expire worthless if Apple's shares are changing hands for less than $100 a month later. But a price point above $100 will give the option buyer a chance to buy shares of the company for a price cheaper than the market price.


   Call Option FAQs  
  How Do Call Options Work?  

Call options are a type of derivative contract that gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to purchase a specified number of shares at a predetermined price, known as the “strike price” of the option. If the market price of the stock rises above the option’s strike price, the option holder can exercise their option, buying at the strike price and selling at the higher market price in order to lock in a profit. On the other hand, options only last for a limited period of time. If the market price does not rise above the strike price during that period, the options expire worthless.


  What Does It Mean to Buy a Call Option?  

Investors will consider buying call options if they are optimistic—or “bullish”—about the prospects of its underlying shares. For these investors, call options might provide a more attractive way to speculate on the prospects of a company because of the leverage that they provide. For an investor who is confident that a company’s shares will rise, buying shares indirectly through call options can be an attractive way to increase their purchasing power.


  What Are Put Options?  

Puts are the counterparts to calls, giving the holder the right to sell (and not buy) the underlying security at a specific price at or before expiration.


  How Do I Sell a Call Option?  

Options are frequently traded on exchanges. If you own an option you can sell it to close out the position. Or, you can sell (known as 'writing') a call to take a short position in the market. If you already own the underlying security, you can write a covered call to enhance returns.


  What Happens If My Call Expires in-the-Money?  

Expiring in-the-money (ITM) simply means that at its expiration its strike price is lower than the market price. This means that the holder of the option has the right to buy shares lower than where they are trading, for an immediate profit. The process of converting the contract into those shares at that price is called exercising. Note that a call that expires with a strike higher than the market price will be out-of-the-money (OTM) and expire worthless, since who would want to purchase shares for higher than you can get in the open market?


   Call Auctions  

In a call auction, the exchange sets a specific timeframe in which to trade a stock. Auctions are most common on smaller exchanges with the offering of a limited number of stocks. All securities can be called for trade simultaneously, or they could trade sequentially. Buyers of a stock will stipulate their maximum acceptable price and sellers will designate their minimum acceptable price. All interested traders must be present at the same time. At the termination of the auction call period, the security is illiquid until its next call. Governments will sometimes employ call auctions when they sell treasury notes, bills, and bonds.



It is important to remember that orders in a call auction are priced orders, meaning that participants specify the price they are willing to pay beforehand. The participants in an auction cannot limit the extent of their losses or gains because their orders are satisfied at the price arrived at during the auction.






Call auctions are usually more liquid than continuous trading markets, while continuous trading markets give participants more flexibility.


   Example of a Call Auction  

Suppose a stock ABC's price is to be determined using a call auction. There are three buyers for the stock—X, Y, and Z. X has placed an order to buy 10,000 ABC shares for $10 while Y and Z have placed orders for 5,000 shares and 2,500 shares at $8 and $12 respectively. Since X has the maximum number of orders, she will win the bid and the stock will be sold for $10 at the exchange. Y and Z will also pay the same price as X. A similar process can be used to determine the selling price of a stock.
What Is a Call Option?  

Call options are financial contracts that give the buyer the right—but not the obligation—to buy a stock, bond, commodity, or other asset or instrument at a specified price within a specific period. A call seller must sell the asset if the buyer exercises the call.



A call buyer profits when the underlying asset increases in price. The seller profits from the premium if the price drops below the strike price at expiration because the buyer will typically not execute the option.



A call option may be contrasted with a put option, which gives the holder the right to sell (force the buyer to purchase) the asset at a specified price on or before expiration.





Key Takeaways

A call is an option contract giving the owner the right, but not the obligation, to buy an underlying security at a specific price within a specified time.The specified price is called the strike price, and the specified time during which the sale can be made is its expiration (expiry) or time to maturity.You pay a fee to purchase a call option, called the premium; this per-share charge is the maximum you can lose on a call option.Call options may be purchased for speculation or sold for income purposes or tax management.Call options may also be combined for use in spread or combination strategies.







Call Option Basics


   Understanding Call Options  

Options are essentially a bet between two investors. One believes the price of an asset will go down, and one thinks it will rise. The asset can be a stock, bond, commodity, or other investing instrument.


  Options Terms  

The contract is an option (a choice) to buy the asset at a specific price by a certain date. The date is called the expiration date (known as expiry), and the asset is called the underlying asset (it's also called "the underlying").



The price is called the strike price. The strike price and the exercise date are set by the contract seller and chosen by the buyer. There are usually many contracts, expiration dates, and strike prices traders can choose from.



You pay a fee to purchase a call option—this is called the premium. It is the price paid for the option to exercise. If, at expiration, the underlying asset is below the strike price, the call buyer loses the premium paid. This is the maximum loss the buyer can incur.


  Buyer Choices  

The call option buyer may hold the contract until the expiration date, at which point they can execute the contract and take delivery of the underlying.



They can also choose not to buy the underlying at expiry, or they can sell the options contract at any point before the expiration date at the market price of the contract at that time.






If an option reaches its expiry with a strike price higher than the asset's market price, it "expires worthless" or "out of the money."


   Long vs. Short Call Options  

There are two basic ways to trade call options, a long call option and a short call option.


  Long Call Option  

A long call option is the standard call option in which the buyer has the right, but not the obligation, to buy a stock at a strike price in the future. The advantage of a long call is that it allows the buyer to plan ahead to purchase a stock at a cheaper price.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2022



For example, you might purchase a long call option in anticipation of a newsworthy event, like a company's earnings call. While the profits on a long call option may be unlimited, the losses are limited to premiums. Thus, even if the company does not report a positive earnings beat (or one that does not meet market expectations) and the price of its shares declines, the maximum losses the buyer of a call option will bear are limited to the premiums paid for the option.


  Short Call Option  

As its name indicates, a short call option is the opposite of a long call option. In a short call option, the seller promises to sell their shares at a fixed strike price in the future. Short call options are mainly used for covered calls by the option seller, or call options in which the seller already owns the underlying stock for their options.






Selling an option without owning the underlying is known as a "naked short call."



The call helps contain the losses they might suffer if the trade does not go their way. For example, their losses would multiply if the call were uncovered (i.e., they did not own the underlying stock for their option), and the stock appreciated significantly in price.


   How to Calculate Call Option Payoffs  

Call option payoff refers to the profit or loss an option buyer or seller makes from a trade. Remember that there are three key variables to consider when evaluating call options: strike price, expiration date, and premium. These variables calculate payoffs generated from call options. There are two cases of call option payoffs.


  Payoffs for Call Option Buyers  

Suppose you purchase a call option for company ABC for a premium of $2. The option's strike price is $50, with an expiration date of Nov. 30. You will break even on your investment if ABC's stock price reaches $52—meaning the sum of the premium paid plus the stock's purchase price. Any increase above that amount is considered a profit. Thus, the payoff when ABC's share price increases in value is unlimited.



What happens when ABC's share price declines below $50 by Nov. 30? Since your options contract is a right, not an obligation, to purchase ABC shares, you can choose not to exercise it, meaning you will not buy ABC's shares. In this case, your losses will be limited to the premium you paid for the option.



Payoff = spot price - strike price



Profit = payoff - premium paid



Using the formula above, your profit is $3 if ABC's spot price is $55 on Nov. 30.


  Payoff for Call Option Sellers  

The payoff calculations for the seller for a call option are not very different. If you sell an ABC options contract with the same strike price and expiration date, you stand to gain only if the price declines. Depending on whether your call is covered or naked, your losses could be limited or unlimited. The latter case occurs when you are forced to purchase the underlying stock at spot prices (perhaps even more) if the options buyer exercises the contract. In this case, your sole source of income (and profits) is limited to the premium you collect on expiration of the options contract.



The formulas for calculating payoffs and profits are as follows:



Payoff = spot price - strike price



Profit = payoff + premium



Using the formula above, your income is $1 if ABC's spot price is $49 on Nov. 30.





Important

There are several factors to consider when it comes to selling call options. Be sure you fully understand an option contract's value and profitability when evaluating a trade, or else you risk the stock rallying too high.


   Using Call Options  

Call options often serve three primary purposes: income generation, speculation, and tax management.


  Using Covered Calls for Income  

Some investors use call options to generate income through a covered call strategy. This strategy involves owning an underlying stock while at the same time writing a call option, or giving someone else the right to buy your stock. The investor collects the option premium and hopes the option expires worthless (below the strike price). This strategy generates additional income for the investor but can also limit profit potential if the underlying stock price rises sharply.



Covered calls work because if the stock rises above the strike price, the option buyer will exercise their right to buy it at the lower strike price. This means the option writer doesn't profit from the stock's movement above the strike price. The options writer's maximum profit on the option is the premium received.


  Using Calls for Speculation  

Options contracts allow buyers to obtain significant exposure to a stock for a relatively small price. Used in isolation, they can provide substantial gains if a stock rises. But they can also result in a 100% loss of the premium if the call option expires worthless due to the underlying stock price failing to move above the strike price. The benefit of buying call options is that risk is always capped at the premium paid for the option.



Investors may also buy and sell different call options simultaneously, creating a call spread. These will cap both the potential profit and loss from the strategy but are more cost-effective in some cases than a single call option because the premium collected from one option's sale offsets the premium paid for the other.


  Using Options for Tax Management  

Investors sometimes use options to change portfolio allocations without actually buying or selling the underlying security.



For example, an investor may own 100 shares of XYZ stock and may be liable for a large unrealized capital gain. Not wanting to trigger a taxable event, shareholders may use options to reduce the exposure to the underlying security without actually selling it. In the case above, the only cost to the shareholder for engaging in this strategy is the cost of the options contract itself.






Though options profits will be classified as short-term capital gains, the method for calculating the tax liability will vary by the exact option strategy and holding period.


   Call Option Examples  
  Example 1  

Imagine Apple is trading at $110 at expiry, the strike price for the option contract (consisting of 100 shares) is $100, and the options cost the buyer $2 per share; the profit is $110 - ($100 + $2) = $8. If the buyer bought one options contract, their profit equals $800 ($8 x 100 shares); the profit would be $1,600 if they bought two contracts ($8 x 200).



Now, if Apple is trading below $100 at expiration, the buyer won't exercise the option to buy the shares at $100 apiece, and the option expires worthless. The buyer loses $2 per share, or $200, for each contract they bought—but that's all. That's the beauty of options: You're only out the premium if you decide not to play.


  Example 2  

Assume Microsoft stock is trading at $108 per share. You own 100 shares of the stock and want to generate an income above and beyond the stock's dividend. You also believe that shares are unlikely to rise above $115 per share over the next month.



You take a look at the call options for the following month and see that there's a $115 call trading at $.37 per contract. So, you sell one call option and collect the $37 premium (37 cents x 100 shares), representing a roughly 4% annualized income.



If the stock rises above $115, the option buyer will exercise the option, and you will have to deliver the 100 shares of stock at $115 per share. You still generated a profit of $7 per share, but you will have missed out on any upside above $115. If the stock doesn't rise above $115, you keep the shares and the $37 in premium income.




How Do Call Options Work?
Call options are a type of derivative contract that gives the holder the right but not the obligation to purchase a specified number of shares at a predetermined price, known as the "strike price" of the option. If the stock's market price rises above the option's strike price, the option holder can exercise their option, buying at the strike price and selling at the higher market price to lock in a profit. Options only last for a limited period, however. If the market price does not rise above the strike price during that period, the options expire worthless.




Why Would You Buy a Call Option?
Investors will consider buying call options if they are optimistic—or "bullish"—about the prospects of its underlying shares. For these investors, call options might provide a more attractive way to speculate on a company's prospects because of the leverage they provide. After all, each options contract allows one to buy 100 shares of the company in question. For an investor who is confident that a company's shares will rise, buying shares indirectly through call options can be an attractive way to increase their purchasing power.




Is Buying a Call Bullish or Bearish?
Buying calls is bullish because the buyer only profits if the price of the shares rises. Conversely, selling call options is bearish because the seller profits if the shares do not rise. Whereas the profits of a call buyer are theoretically unlimited, the profits of a call seller are limited to the premium they receive when they sell the calls.


   The Bottom Line  

Call options are financial contracts that give the option buyer the right but not the obligation to buy a stock, bond, commodity, or other asset or instrument at a specified price within a specific period. The stock, bond, or commodity is called the underlying asset.



A call buyer profits when the underlying asset increases in price. A call option seller can generate income by collecting premiums from the sale of options contracts. The tax treatment for call options varies based on the strategy and type of call options that generate profits.







Correction—Aug. 23, 2023: This article was corrected from a previous version that miscalculated the formula for the payoff for call options sellers.
What Is a Callable Bond?  

A callable bond, also known as a redeemable bond, is a bond that the issuer may redeem before it reaches the stated maturity date. A callable bond allows the issuing company to pay off their debt early. A business may choose to call their bond if market interest rates move lower, which will allow them to re-borrow at a more beneficial rate. Callable bonds thus compensate investors for that potentiality as they typically offer a more attractive interest rate or coupon rate due to their callable nature.





Key Takeaways

A callable bond is a debt security that can be redeemed early by the issuer before its maturity at the issuer's discretion.A callable bond allows companies to pay off their debt early and benefit from favorable interest rate drops.A callable bond benefits the issuer, and so investors of these bonds are compensated with a more attractive interest rate than on otherwise similar non-callable bonds.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


   How a Callable Bond Works  

A callable bond is a debt instrument in which the issuer reserves the right to return the investor's principal and stop interest payments before the bond's maturity date. Corporations may issue bonds to fund expansion or to pay off other loans. If they expect market interest rates to fall, they may issue the bond as callable, allowing them to make an early redemption and secure other financings at a lowered rate. The bond's offering will specify the terms of when the company may recall the note.



A callable—redeemable—bond is typically called at a value that is slightly above the par value of the debt. The earlier in a bond's life span that it is called, the higher its call value will be. For example, a bond maturing in 2030 can be called in 2020. It may show a callable price of 102. This price means the investor receives $1,020 for each $1,000 in face value of their investment. The bond may also stipulate that the early call price goes down to 101 after a year.


   Types of Callable Bonds  

Callable bonds come with many variations. Optional redemption lets an issuer redeem its bonds according to the terms when the bond was issued. However, not all bonds are callable. Treasury bonds and Treasury notes are non-callable, although there are a few exceptions.



Most municipal bonds and some corporate bonds are callable. A municipal bond has call features that may be exercised after a set period such as 10 years.



Sinking fund redemption requires the issuer to adhere to a set schedule while redeeming a portion or all of its debt. On specified dates, the company will remit a portion of the bond to bondholders. A sinking fund helps the company save money over time and avoid a large lump-sum payment at maturity. A sinking fund has bonds issued whereby some of them are callable for the company to pay off its debt early.



Extraordinary redemption lets the issuer call its bonds before maturity if specific events occur, such as if the underlying funded project is damaged or destroyed.



Call protection refers to the period when the bond cannot be called. The issuer must clarify whether a bond is callable and the exact terms of the call option, including when the timeframe when the bond can be called.


   Callable Bonds and Interest Rates  

If market interest rates decline after a corporation floats a bond, the company can issue new debt, receiving a lower interest rate than the original callable bond. The company uses the proceeds from the second, lower-rate issue to pay off the earlier callable bond by exercising the call feature. As a result, the company has refinanced its debt by paying off the higher-yielding callable bonds with the newly-issued debt at a lower interest rate.



Paying down debt early by exercising callable bonds saves a company interest expense and prevents the company from being put in financial difficulties in the long term if economic or financial conditions worsen. 



However, the investor might not make out as well as the company when the bond is called. For example, let's say a 6% coupon bond is issued and is due to mature in five years. An investor purchases $10,000 worth and receives coupon payments of 6% x $10,000 or $600 annually. Three years after issuance, the interest rates fall to 4%, and the issuer calls the bond. The bondholder must turn in the bond to get back the principal, and no further interest is paid.



In this scenario, not only does the bondholder lose the remaining interest payments but it would be unlikely they will be able to match the original 6% coupon. This situation is known as reinvestment risk. The investor might choose to reinvest at a lower interest rate and lose potential income. Also, if the investor wants to purchase another bond, the new bond's price could be higher than the price of the original callable. In other words, the investor might pay a higher price for a lower yield. As a result, a callable bond may not be appropriate for investors seeking stable income and predictable returns.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Callable Bonds  

Callable bonds typically pay a higher coupon or interest rate to investors than non-callable bonds. The companies that issue these products benefit as well. Should the market interest rate fall lower than the rate being paid to the bondholders, the business may call the note. They may then, refinance the debt at a lower interest rate. This flexibility is usually more favorable for the business than using bank-based lending. 



However, not every aspect of a callable bond is favorable. An issuer will usually call the bond when interest rates fall. This calling leaves the investor exposed to replacing the investment at a rate that will not return the same level of income. Conversely, when market rates rise, the investor can fall behind when their funds are tied up in a product that pays a lower rate. Finally, companies must offer a higher coupon to attract investors. This higher coupon will increase the overall cost of taking on new projects or expansions.





Pros

Pay a higher coupon or interest rate
Investor-financed debt is more flexibility for the issuer
Helps companies raise capital
Call features allow recall and refinancing of debt



Cons

Investors must replace called bonds with lower rate products
Investors cannot take advantage when market rates rise
Coupon rates are higher raising the costs to the company





   Example of a Callable Bond  

Let's say Apple Inc. (AAPL) decides to borrow $10 million in the bond market and issues a 6% coupon bond with a maturity date in five years. The company pays its bondholders 6% x $10 million or $600,000 in interest payments annually.



Three years from the date of issuance, interest rates fall by 200 basis points (bps) to 4%, prompting the company to redeem the bonds. Under the terms of the bond contract, if the company calls the bonds, it must pay the investors $102 premium to par. Therefore, the company pays the bond investors $10.2 million, which it borrows from the bank at a 4% interest rate. It reissues the bond with a 4% coupon rate and a principal sum of $10.2 million, reducing its annual interest payment to 4% x $10.2 million or $408,000.
What Is a Canceled Check?  

A canceled check is a check that has been paid or cleared by the bank it was drawn on after it has been deposited or cashed. The check is "canceled" after it's been used or paid so that the check cannot be used again.



Somebody who has written a check may also cancel it before it has been deposited or cashed by alerting the issuing bank, thus voiding the check.





Key Takeaways

A canceled check is one that has been cleared by cashing or depositing it, rendering the check null and void for further transactions.A canceled check indicates that the clearing process has been completed, so canceled checks can be used as proof of payment.A check may also be canceled by its writer before it has been cashed by alerting the issuing bank.


   Understanding Canceled Checks  

A canceled check has been paid after going through a check clearing process. The check is canceled once the money has been drawn from the bank the check was written on or the drawee. The payee is the person the check is written to, and the payee's bank receives the deposit. The process of a canceled check includes the following:



The payee, or the person the check is written to, signs the back of the check.
The check is deposited into the payee's bank account.
The payee's bank notifies the drawee's bank, and the transaction goes through the system of the Federal Reserve Bank.
The drawee's bank (or the bank the check was written from) pays the payee's bank the funds if there are sufficient funds in the payor's account.
The payee's bank deposits the cash or makes the funds in the deposit "available" for withdrawal.



Today, nearly all checks are cleared through the Federal Reserve Banking system electronically even in cases when the deposit is a paper check. The deposit and check clearing process is still performed, but the paper check almost never leaves the facility where it is deposited.



Instead, a special scanner creates a digital impression of the front and back of the check, which it sends to the other bank. When the check finally clears the account of the payor or the person who wrote it, it's considered canceled. In short, a canceled check means the clearing process has finished, and the check cannot be reused. As a result, canceled checks can be used as proof of payment.


   How Customer Access to Canceled Checks Works  

Traditionally, canceled checks were returned to checking account holders with their monthly statements. That is now rare, and most check writers receive scanned copies of their canceled checks, while the banks create digital copies for safekeeping.



In most cases, customers who utilize the best online banks can also access copies of their canceled checks via the web. While many banks charge for paper copies of canceled checks, customers can typically print copies from the bank's website for free.


   Example of a Canceled Check  

Let's say Lee writes a check to David. David takes the check to his bank and deposits it. The bank may credit David's account in the amount of the check automatically or may delay clearing the deposit. David's bank may make a portion of the funds available to David until the check clears through Lee's bank. David's bank sends the check electronically to Lee's bank. Lee's bank debits Lee's account for the amount of the check, sends the funds to David's bank, and stamps the check as canceled.






A canceled check means the clearing process is finished, and the check cannot be reused. As a result, canceled checks can be used as proof of payment.


   Canceled Checks vs. Returned Checks  

While a canceled check is honored by the bank, a returned check is a check that did not clear the payor's bank, and as a result, the funds would not be made available to the payee or the depositor. There are a few reasons a check can be marked as returned for which the most common is insufficient funds in the payor's account.



However, the check can be returned for other reasons, including:



The date the check was written was longer than six months ago.The payor's account is closed.The person who wrote the check doesn't have signing authority to write checks for the account.A stop payment order was placed on the check.



If someone writes a check and there is not enough money in the account to cover it, the bank may return the check to the payee. Typically, a fee is charged to the payee by the payee's bank, and the payor's bank charges a fee to the payor's account for writing a check that ultimately bounced due to non-sufficient funds.




How Do You Cancel a Check?
If you need to cancel a check you've written before it is cashed, you have a few options. If you still have the check in your possession, you can write "void" across the front of the check in large letters. If you no longer have the check, you can contact your bank to request a stop payment. Some banks will accept a stop payment request over the phone, while others will require written notice. Be sure to provide your account and routing numbers as well as the check number and amount.




How Do You Get a Canceled Check?
When you need a copy of a canceled check, contact your bank or credit union. If you have access to mobile banking, you may be able to log in to your account, search for the check among your transactions, and print or view a copy. You may also receive photocopies of your canceled checks along with your monthly banking statement, or you might need to request a copy from the bank directly. Some banks will charge for copies of canceled checks.




What's the Difference Between a Cleared Check and a Canceled Check?
With a cleared check, the funds have been successfully cleared, or moved, from the payor's account to the payee's account. When a check has cleared, it is then canceled to prevent it from being used again.


   The Bottom Line  

Canceled checks are an important part of the check settlement process. They mark the successful settlement of a check transaction. You can cancel a check yourself by voiding it or requesting a stop payment from your bank. To get a copy of a check that has been canceled, you'll usually need to request it from your bank directly or access it via your mobile banking account.
What Is A Candlestick?  

A candlestick is a type of price chart used in technical analysis that displays the high, low, open, and closing prices of a security for a specific period. It originated from Japanese rice merchants and traders to track market prices and daily momentum hundreds of years before becoming popularized in the United States. The wide part of the candlestick is called the "real body" and tells investors whether the closing price was higher or lower than the opening price (black/red if the stock closed lower, white/green if the stock closed higher).





Key Takeaways

Candlestick charts display the high, low, open, and closing prices of a security for a specific period.Candlesticks originated from Japanese rice merchants and traders to track market prices and daily momentum hundreds of years before becoming popularized in the United States.Candlesticks can be used by traders looking for chart patterns.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   The Basics Of A Candlestick  










Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020



The candlestick's shadows show the day's high and low and how they compare to the open and close. A candlestick's shape varies based on the relationship between the day's high, low, opening and closing prices.



Candlesticks reflect the impact of investor sentiment on security prices and are used by technical analysts to determine when to enter and exit trades. Candlestick charting is based on a technique developed in Japan in the 1700s for tracking the price of rice. Candlesticks are a suitable technique for trading any liquid financial asset such as stocks, foreign exchange and futures.



Long white/green candlesticks indicate there is strong buying pressure; this typically indicates price is bullish. However, they should be looked at in the context of the market structure as opposed to individually. For example, a long white candle is likely to have more significance if it forms at a major price support level. Long black/red candlesticks indicate there is significant selling pressure. This suggests the price is bearish. A common bullish candlestick reversal pattern, referred to as a hammer, forms when price moves substantially lower after the open, then rallies to close near the high. The equivalent bearish candlestick is known as a hanging man. These candlesticks have a similar appearance to a square lollipop, and are often used by traders attempting to pick a top or bottom in a market.






Traders can use candlestick signals to analyze any and all periods of trading including daily or hourly cycles—even for minute-long cycles of the trading day.






   Two-Day Candlestick Trading Patterns  

There are many short-term trading strategies based on candlestick patterns. The engulfing pattern suggests a potential trend reversal; the first candlestick has a small body that is completely engulfed by the second candlestick. It is referred to as a bullish engulfing pattern when it appears at the end of a downtrend, and a bearish engulfing pattern at the conclusion of an uptrend. The harami is a reversal pattern where the second candlestick is entirely contained within the first candlestick and is opposite in color. In a related pattern, the harami cross has a second candlestick that is a doji; when the open and close are effectively equal.


   Three-Day Candlestick Trading Patterns  

An evening star is a bearish reversal pattern where the first candlestick continues the uptrend. The second candlestick gaps up and has a narrow body. The third candlestick closes below the midpoint of the first candlestick. A morning star is a bullish reversal pattern where the first candlestick is long and black/red-bodied, followed by short candlestick that has gapped lower; it is completed by a long-bodied white/green candlestick that closes above the midpoint of the first candlestick.
What Is Cap and Trade?  

Cap and trade is a common term for a government regulatory program designed to limit, or cap, the total level of emissions of certain chemicals, particularly carbon dioxide, as a result of industrial activity.



Proponents of cap and trade argue that it is a palatable alternative to a carbon tax. Both measures are attempts to reduce environmental damage without causing undue economic hardship to the industry.





Key Takeaways

Cap-and-trade energy programs are intended to gradually reduce pollution by giving companies an incentive to invest in clean alternatives.The government issues a set amount of permits to companies that comprise a cap on allowed carbon dioxide emissions.Companies that surpass the cap are taxed, while companies that cut their emissions may sell or trade unused credits.The total limit (or cap) on pollution credits declines over time, giving corporations an incentive to find cheaper alternatives.Critics say that caps could be set too high and give companies an excuse to avoid investing in cleaner alternatives for too long.


   Understanding Cap and Trade  

A cap and trade program can work in a number of ways, but here are the basics. The government sets the limit, or "cap" on emissions permitted across a given industry. It issues a limited number of annual permits that allow companies to emit a certain amount of carbon dioxide and related pollutants that drive global warming. Other pollutants that contribute to smog can also be capped.



The total amount of the cap is split into allowances. Each allowance permits a company to emit one ton of emissions. The government distributes the allowances to the companies, either for free or through an auction.



But the government lowers the number of permits each year, thereby lowering the total emissions cap. That makes the permits more expensive. Over time, companies have an incentive to reduce their emissions more efficiently and invest in clean technology as it becomes cheaper than buying permits.



Companies are taxed if they produce a higher level of emissions than their permits allow. They may even be penalized for a violation. On the other hand, companies that reduce their emissions can sell allowances ("trade" them) to other companies that pollute more. They can also bank them for future use.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Cap and Trade  
  Pros  

The cap and trade system is sometimes described as a market system. That is, it creates an exchange value for emissions. Since companies that have emissions credits can sell them for extra profit, this creates a new economic resource for industries.Its proponents argue that a cap and trade program offers an incentive for companies to invest in cleaner technologies in order to avoid buying permits that will increase in cost every year. It also motivates companies to fund research into alternative energy resources.



This process may lead to faster cuts in pollution, since companies that cut their emission levels faster are somehow rewarded as can then sell their allowance to other companies.



Because the government can decide to auction emissions credits to the highest bidder, cap and trade is also a revenue source for the government, since it has the power to auction emissions credits to the highest bidder. This new revenue can cover infrastructure needs, social programs, be invested in cleaner technologies, or it can even be a way to solve a budget deficit at the state or national level.



As a free trade system, cap and trade gives consumers more choices as well. Consumers can choose not to purchase from companies that are out of compliance, and do business with those that are trying to reduce their pollution levels.



Finally, the cap and trade system also has benefits for the taxpayers. The government sells emission credits to businesses that need them. The income generated helps to supplement the resources that taxpayers are providing the government.


  Cons  

Opponents of cap and trade argue that it could lead to an overproduction of pollutants up to the maximum levels set by the government each year, since allowable levels may be set too generously, actually slowing the move to cleaner energy.



Also, emissions credits (and even penalties and fines for exceeding the cap limit) are usually cheaper than converting to cleaner technologies and resources. This is the case, for example, for industries that use fossil fuels. This means that cap and trade is not a real incentive for those industries to change their practices.



It's also argued that the "trade" mechanism is not always followed. Some credits are sold at auctions to the highest bidder, or even given away. This means it costs a company nothing to increase its emissions.



Most industries don’t have devices that help monitor and determine their amount of emissions. This makes it relatively easy for businesses to cheat on their emissions reports. For the cap trade system to be effective, monitoring systems must be implemented so that enforcement can take place.



Since renewable energy resources are still relatively new, they are also expensive. Products sold by companies that conform to the cap rules tend to be more costly to produce, affecting what consumers pay for them.



Finally, each country has different standards and maximum caps for emissions. Some may be very lenient and permit higher levels of pollution, while others may be very strict. Unless a global cap and trade system is established, it won't be effective globally and there may be little impact on the number of emissions spilled out into the atmosphere every year.





Pros

Income source for companies
Promotes cleaner technologies
Leads to faster cuts in pollution
Source of revenue for the government
Suplements taxpayers resources
Gives consumers the power to decide



Cons

Allowed emissions levels are set too high
Credits and penalties and are cheaper than converting to cleaner technologies
Some credits are given away
Companies can cheat the system
It increases the prices for goods and services
There is no global consistency in the system






Sources: Brandon Gaille, Vittana.org


   Challenges for Cap and Trade  

One challenge in establishing a cap and trade policy is the ability of governments to impose the correct cap on the producers of emissions. A cap that is too high may lead to even higher emissions, while a cap that is too low would be seen as a burden on the industry and a cost that would be passed on to consumers.



There is also an overall lack of reliable data on emissions. The estimates for past and current emissions, as well as predictions for future emissions, vary widely among industries. A cap and trade system may be useless until accurate information on emissions is available, which involves a costly process and can take years to complete.



Apart from the lack of reliable emission data, there are also many methodological challenges when it comes to applying an effective cap and trade system: the difficulty to achieve an international consensus on emissions and caps since each country has different priorities, or the high transaction and administrative costs involved, among others.



Finally, predicting the long-term effects and benefits of cape and trade initiatives is also a great challenge.






Although cap and trade systems reduce emissions and can lead to faster cuts in pollution, they also tend to increase the price of oil, coal, and natural gas in an effort to force companies to switch to alternative forms of energy. These initiatives are expensive and impact negatively the economy.


   Cap and Trade Examples  

In 2005, the European Union (EU) created the world's first international cap and trade program with the goal of reducing carbon emissions. In 2019, the EU estimated that there would be a 21% reduction in emissions from sectors covered by the system by 2020.



During the administration of U.S. President Barack Obama, a clean energy bill that included a cap and trade program was introduced in Congress. It was eventually approved by the House of Representatives but never even got to a vote in the Senate.



The state of California introduced its own cap-and-trade program in 2013. The program was initially limited to fewer than 400 businesses, including power plants, large industrial plants, and fuel distributors. Its goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020 was successfully met in 2016.



Mexico is running a pilot cap-and-trade program that the country began in January 2020. This is the first emissions trading pilot program in Latin America, and it aims to move to full operations in 2018. The country committed to a 22% reduction in greenhouse gasses by 2030.


    Does Cap and Trade Really Work?  

The effectiveness of cap and trade is constantly under debate. Cap and trade aims to reduce carbon emissions by putting a price on them, thus mitigating climate change. Those well-designed cap and trade initiatives have proven to be not only environmentally effective, but also cost-effective, since those companies that bank the excess allowances (or amount of the cap) can reduce significantly their costs.



In California, for example, the program met some initial benchmarks and inspired many other similar initiatives across the world. But some claim that the biggest oil and gas companies in the state have actually polluted more since the program started. Experts are increasingly worried that the cap and trade initiative is in reality allowing California’s biggest polluters to conduct business as usual and even increase their emissions.



An analysis conducted by ProPublica showed that carbon emissions from California’s oil and gas industry actually rose 3.5% since cap and trade began, and that emissions from vehicles, which burn the fuels processed in refineries, are also rising.


   Carbon Tax vs. Cap and Trade  

A carbon tax directly establishes a price on greenhouse gas emissions—so companies are charged a dollar amount for every ton of emissions they produce—whereas a cap and trade program issues a set number of emissions “allowances” each year. These allowances can be auctioned to the highest bidder as well as traded on secondary markets, creating a carbon price.



If well designed, either a carbon tax or a cap and trade program can be key elements for the U.S. in its effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.



   




Is Cap and Trade Used?
Yes. Today, cap and trade is used or being developed worldwide.For example, European countries have been implementing a cap and trade programsince 2005, the Chinese government is working toward a national cap program and currently, several Chinese cities and provinces have had carbon capssince 2013. Eleven states in the U.S. participate in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), a cap-and-trade program established in 2009.




Is Cap and Trade Bad?
Although cap and trade aims to reduce emissions and pollution, it has some drawbacks affecting the economy. When implemented it leads to an increase in the cost of energy.




Is Cap and Trade Successful?
The proponents of cap and trade argue that well-designed cap and trade systems have proven to be environmentally effective and cost-effective. When a company has effective emissions monitoring systems and complies with regulations, a cap trade initiative can be beneficial not only for the environment for also for the economy, since banking the excess allowances can reduce significantly a company's costs.




How Did Cap and Trade Work in California?
California began operating a cap-and-trade program in 2013, and as of 2022, it is one of the largest emissions trading systems in the world. The ambitious program aimed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020 (a goal that was met in 2016), and now aims to reduce the emissions by 40% below 1990 levels by 2030, and 80% below 1990 levels by 2050. California also has additional goals of achieving 100% carbon-free electricity by 2045 and economy-wide carbon neutrality by 2045.
What Is Capacity Utilization Rate?  

Capacity utilization rate measures the percentage of an organization's potential output that is actually being realized. The capacity utilization rate of a company or a national economy may be measured in order to provide insight into how well it is reaching its potential.



The formula for finding the rate is:



(Actual Output / Potential Output ) x 100 = Capacity Utilization Rate



A number under 100% indicates that the organization is producing at less than its full potential.






Calculating the capacity utilization rate pinpoints the degree to which an organization is achieving its full production potential.Business executives can use the rate to decide how much production can be ramped up without the cost of investing in new equipment.A nation's economists use it to track how its industries are performing given the current economic environment. Fiscal and monetary policy may be adjusted based on the number.Capacity utilization is most relevant to industries that produce physical products rather than services.In the U.S., the Federal Reserve tracks capacity utilization rates in 89 industries within the mining, manufacturing, and utility sectors.


   Understanding Capacity Utilization Rate  

Capacity utilization rate is a key metric for a business or a national economy. It indicates the slack in the organization at a given point in time.



A company that has a utilization rate of less than 100% can, at least theoretically, increase its production without incurring the additional expensive overhead costs that are associated with purchasing new equipment or property.



A national economy with a ratio of under 100% can pinpoint areas in which its production levels can be increased without significant costs or disruption.



The concept of capacity utilization is best applied to the production of physical goods, which are simpler to quantify.


   Corporate Capacity Utilization Rates  

The capacity utilization rate is used by companies to assess their current operating efficiency.



It also provides insight into the cost structure of the business in the short term or long term because it can be used to determine the point at which unit costs will rise as it increases production.



Imagine, for instance, that Company XYZ currently produces 10,000 widgets at a cost of $0.50 per unit. It determines that it can produce up to 15,000 widgets without costs rising above $0.50 per unit. Therefore, the company is running at a capacity utilization rate of 67% (10,000/15,000).



In this case, company executives may conclude that they can safely increase production to 15,000 without investing in additional equipment.






Capacity utilization rates for the U.S. economy have been published by the Federal Reserve since the 1960s. Its deepest decline occurred in 2009 when capacity utilization fell to 66.7%. In the fourth quarter of 2020, it was at 73.4%.


   Historical Capacity Utilization Rates  

The Federal Reserve gathers and publishes data on capacity utilization in the U.S. economy.



In fact, the Fed calculates capacity utilization rates for 89 industry sub-sectors including 71 in manufacturing, 16 in mining, and two in gas and electric utilities.



In the fourth quarter of 2020, deep in the COVID-19 pandemic, the Fed calculated a revised capacity utilization rate for all U.S. industry at 73.4%


  Capacity Utilization and the Business Cycle  

Capacity utilization overall fluctuates with the business cycle.



Companies adjust their production volumes in response to changes in demand. Demand declines sharply during recessions as unemployment rises, wages fall, consumer confidence decreases, and business investment dips.



The Fed has published capacity utilization figures since the 1960s, spanning a number of economic cycles. All-time-high levels approaching 90% were achieved in the late 1960s and early 1970s. The deepest declines occurred in 1982 and 2009 when capacity utilization fell to 70.9% and 66.7%, respectively.



The Fed's numbers are published monthly in mid-month for the previous month but may later be revised.


  Effects of Low Capacity Utilization  

Low capacity utilization is a concern for fiscal and monetary policymakers. In 2015 and 2016, several European economies, including those of France and Spain, were struggling with the effects of low capacity utilization.



Despite monetary stimulus leading to historically low-interest rates, inflation remained below target levels for extended periods, and the threat of deflation loomed.



Low capacity utilization and high unemployment created so much slack in those economies that prices were slow to react to stimulative efforts. With so much excess capacity, rising product activity did not require significant capital investment.


   Capacity Utilization Rate FAQs  

Here are the answers to some commonly asked questions about the capacity utilization rate.


  How Is Capacity Utilization Measured?  

The formula for calculating the rate is:



(Actual Output / Potential Output ) x 100 = Capacity Utilization Rate



A number less than 100% indicates the degree to which production can be increased without additional investment. That is, the cost per unit will be the same.


  How Does a Business Increase Capacity Utilization?  

A business may choose not to increase its capacity utilization rate.



Businesses respond to the current business cycle. If demand for their products is low, they will decrease production. Their capacity utilization rates will decline as a result.



But in times when demand is strong, the capacity utilization rate informs them how much they can step up production without incurring additional per-unit costs.


  What Is a Good Capacity Utilization Rate?  

Ideally, 100% is a perfect score in an organization's capacity utilization rate.



However, a company wouldn't want to keep its production at 100% for long. It would want to expand its production capacity in order to increase its revenues. That would hurt its perfect utilization rate score but it would improve the company's prospects in the long run.


  Does Investment Go Up When the Capacity Utilization Rate Is High?  

Investment should go up when the capacity utilization rate is high. It indicates that an organization is producing as much as it can, based on the resources it has in place. If its leaders don't anticipate greater demand in the future and invest accordingly, its competitors will fill the gap.


  What Is Manufacturing Capacity Utilization?  

Manufacturing capacity utilization is a somewhat narrower term than capacity utilization.



The capacity utilization rate is most relevant to manufacturing businesses. The bulk of their costs may be found on the assembly line. But they have other costs, such as storage and shipping. All of these costs are factored in to determine a manufacturer's capacity utilization rate.



Nevertheless, manufacturing capacity utilization is the key factor. If a business's current equipment can only handle 1,000 units per day, the number can't be increased to 1,200 without business additional equipment.
What Is the CAPE Ratio?  

The CAPE ratio is a valuation measure that uses real earnings per share (EPS) over a 10-year period to smooth out fluctuations in corporate profits that occur over different periods of a business cycle. The CAPE ratio, using the acronym for cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings ratio, was popularized by Yale University professor Robert Shiller. It is also known as the Shiller P/E ratio. The P/E ratio is a valuation metric that measures a stock's price relative to the company's earnings per share. EPS is a company's profit divided by the outstanding equity shares.



The ratio is generally applied to broad equity indices to assess whether the market is undervalued or overvalued. While the CAPE ratio is a popular and widely-followed measure, several leading industry practitioners have called into question its utility as a predictor of future stock market returns.


   The Formula for the CAPE Ratio Is:  

﻿




C


A


P


E


 ratio


=




Share price




1


0


−


year average


,


 inflation


−


adjusted earnings





CAPE \text{ ratio} = \frac{\text{Share price}}{10 - \text{year average}, \text{ inflation} - \text{adjusted earnings}}


CAPE ratio=10−year average, inflation−adjusted earningsShare price​﻿


   What Does the CAPE Ratio Tell You?  

A company’s profitability is determined to a significant extent by various economic cycle influences. During expansions, profits rise substantially as consumers spend more money, but during recessions, consumers buy less, profits plunge, and can turn into losses. While profit swings are much larger for companies in cyclical sectors—such as commodities and financials—than they are for firms in defensive sectors such as utilities and pharmaceuticals, few companies can maintain steadfast profitability in the face of a deep recession.



Because volatility in per-share earnings also results in price-earnings (P/E) ratios that bounce around significantly, Benjamin Graham and David Dodd recommended in their seminal 1934 book, Security Analysis, that for examining valuation ratios, one should use an average of earnings over preferably seven or ten years.





Key Takeaways

The CAPE ratio is used to analyze a publicly held company's long-term financial performance while considering the impact of different economic cycles on the company's earnings.The CAPE ratio is similar to the price-to-earnings ratio and is used to determine whether a stock is over-or under-valued.The ratio considers the impact of economic influences by comparing a stock price to average earnings, adjusted for inflation, over a 10-year period.


   Example of the CAPE Ratio in Use  

The cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings (CAPE) ratio initially came into the spotlight in December 1996, after Robert Shiller and John Campbell presented research to the Federal Reserve that suggested stock prices were running up much faster than earnings. In the winter of 1998, Shiller and Campbell published their groundbreaking article "Valuation Ratios and the Long-Run Stock Market Outlook," in which they smoothed earnings for the S&P 500 by taking an average of real earnings over the past 10 years, going back to 1872.



This ratio was at a record 28 in January 1997, with the only other instance (at that time) of a comparably high ratio occurring in 1929. Shiller and Campbell asserted the ratio was predicting that the real value of the market would be 40% lower in ten years than it was at that time. That forecast proved to be remarkably prescient, as the market crash of 2008 contributed to the S&P 500 plunging 60% from October 2007 to March 2009.



The CAPE ratio for the S&P 500 climbed steadily in the second decade of this millennium as the economic recovery in the U.S. gathered momentum, and stock prices reached record levels. As of June 2018, the CAPE ratio stood at 33.78, compared with its long-term average of 16.80. The fact that the ratio had previously only exceeded 30 in 1929 and 2000 triggered a raging debate about whether the elevated value of the ratio portends a major market correction.


   Limitations of the CAPE Ratio  

Critics of the CAPE ratio contend that it is not very useful since it is inherently backward-looking, rather than forward-looking. Another issue is that the ratio relies on GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) earnings, which have undergone marked changes in recent years.



In June 2016, Jeremy Siegel of the Wharton School published a paper in which he said that forecasts of future equity returns using the CAPE ratio might be overly pessimistic because of changes in the way GAAP earnings are calculated. Siegel said that using consistent earnings data such as operating earnings or NIPA (national income and product account) after-tax corporate profits, rather than GAAP earnings, improves the forecasting ability of the CAPE model and forecasts higher U.S. equity returns.
What Is Capital?  

Capital is a broad term that can describe anything that confers value or benefit to its owners, such as a factory and its machinery, intellectual property like patents, or the financial assets of a business or an individual.



While money itself may be construed as capital, capital is more often associated with cash that is being put to work for productive or investment purposes. In general, capital is a critical component of running a business from day to day and financing its future growth.



Business capital may derive from the operations of the business or be raised from debt or equity financing. Common sources of capital include:



Personal savingsFriends and familyAngel investorsVenture capitalists (VC)CorporationsFederal, state, or local governmentsPrivate loansWork or business operationsGoing public with an IPO



When budgeting, businesses of all kinds typically focus on three types of capital: working capital, equity capital, and debt capital. A business in the financial industry identifies trading capital as a fourth component.



Learn more about the types, sources, and structures of capital.





Key Takeaways

The capital of a business is the money it has available to pay for its day-to-day operations and to fund its future growth.The four major types of capital include working capital, debt, equity, and trading capital. Trading capital is used by brokerages and other financial institutions.Any debt capital is offset by a debt liability on the balance sheet.The capital structure of a company determines what mix of these types of capital it uses to fund its business.Economists look at the capital of a family, a business, or an entire economy to evaluate how efficiently it is using its resources.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Capital  

From the economists' perspective, capital is key to the functioning of any unit, whether that unit is a family, a small business, a large corporation, or an entire economy.



Capital assets can be found on either the current or long-term portion of the balance sheet. These assets may include cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as well as manufacturing equipment, production facilities, and storage facilities.






In the broadest sense, capital can be a measurement of wealth and a resource for increasing wealth. Individuals hold capital and capital assets as part of their net worth. Companies have capital structures that define the mix of debt capital, equity capital, and working capital for daily expenditures that they use.



Capital is typically cash or liquid assets being held or obtained for expenditures. In a broader sense, the term may be expanded to include all of a company’s assets that have monetary value, such as its equipment, real estate, and inventory. But when it comes to budgeting, capital is cash flow.



In general, capital can be a measurement of wealth and also a resource that provides for increasing wealth through direct investment or capital project investments. Individuals hold capital and capital assets as part of their net worth. Companies have capital structures that include debt capital, equity capital, and working capital for daily expenditures.



How individuals and companies finance their working capital and invest their obtained capital is critical for their prosperity.


   How Capital Is Used  

Capital is used by companies to pay for the ongoing production of goods and services to create profit. Companies use their capital to invest in all kinds of things to create value. Labor and building expansions are two common areas of capital allocation. By investing capital, a business or individual seeks to earn a higher return than the capital's costs.



At the national and global levels, financial capital is analyzed by economists to understand how it is influencing economic growth. Economists watch several metrics of capital including personal income and personal consumption from the Commerce Department’s Personal Income and Outlays reports. Capital investment also can be found in the quarterly Gross Domestic Product report.



Typically, business capital and financial capital are judged from the perspective of a company’s capital structure. In the U.S., banks are required to hold a minimum amount of capital as a risk mitigation requirement (sometimes called economic capital) as directed by the central banks and banking regulations.



Other private companies are responsible for assessing their capital thresholds, capital assets, and capital needs for corporate investment. Most of the financial capital analysis for businesses is done by closely analyzing the balance sheet.


   Business Capital Structure  

A company’s balance sheet provides for metric analysis of a capital structure, which is split among assets, liabilities, and equity. The mix defines the structure.



Debt financing represents a cash capital asset that must be repaid over time through scheduled liabilities. Equity financing, meaning the sale of stock shares, provides cash capital that is also reported in the equity portion of the balance sheet. Debt capital typically comes with lower rates of return and strict provisions for repayment.



Some of the key metrics for analyzing business capital are weighted average cost of capital, debt to equity, debt to capital, and return on equity.


   Types of Capital  

Below are the top four types of capital that businesses focus on in more detail


  Debt Capital  

A business can acquire capital by borrowing. This is debt capital, and it can be obtained through private or government sources. For established companies, this most often means borrowing from banks and other financial institutions or issuing bonds. For small businesses starting on a shoestring, sources of capital may include friends and family, online lenders, credit card companies, and federal loan programs.



Like individuals, businesses must have an active credit history to obtain debt capital. Debt capital requires regular repayment with interest. The interest rates vary depending on the type of capital obtained and the borrower’s credit history.



Individuals quite rightly see debt as a burden, but businesses see it as an opportunity, at least if the debt doesn't get out of hand. It is the only way that most businesses can obtain a large enough lump sum to pay for a major investment in the future. But both businesses and their potential investors need to keep an eye on the debt to capital ratio to avoid getting in too deep.



Issuing bonds is a favorite way for corporations to raise debt capital, especially when prevailing interest rates are low, making it cheaper to borrow. In 2020, for example, corporate bond issuance by U.S. companies soared 70% year over year, according to Moody's Analytics. Average corporate bond yields had then hit a multi-year low of about 2.3%.


  Equity Capital  

Equity capital can come in several forms. Typically, distinctions are made between private equity, public equity, and real estate equity.



Private and public equity will usually be structured in the form of shares of stock in the company. The only distinction here is that public equity is raised by listing the company's shares on a stock exchange while private equity is raised among a closed group of investors.



When an individual investor buys shares of stock, they are providing equity capital to a company. The biggest splashes in the world of raising equity capital come, of course, when a company launches an initial public offering (IPO). In 2021, the Duolingo IPO valued the company at $5 million and shook the Nasdaq market.


  Working Capital  

A company's working capital is its liquid capital assets available for fulfilling daily obligations. It is calculated through the following two assessments:



Current Assets – Current LiabilitiesAccounts Receivable + Inventory – Accounts Payable



Working capital measures a company's short-term liquidity. More specifically, it represents its ability to cover its debts, accounts payable, and other obligations that are due within one year.



Note that working capital is defined as current assets minus its current liabilities. A company that has more liabilities than assets could soon run short of working capital.


  Trading Capital  

Any business needs a substantial amount of capital to operate and create profitable returns. Balance sheet analysis is central to the review and assessment of business capital.



Trading capital is a term used by brokerages and other financial institutions that place a large number of trades daily. Trading capital is the amount of money allotted to an individual or a firm to buy and sell various securities.



Investors may attempt to add to their trading capital by employing a variety of trade optimization methods. These methods attempt to make the best use of capital by determining the ideal percentage of funds to invest with each trade.



In particular, to be successful, traders need to determine the optimal cash reserves required for their investing strategies.



A big brokerage firm like Charles Schwab or Fidelity Investments will allocate considerable trading capital to each of the professionals who trade stocks and other assets for it.


   Capital vs. Money  

At its core, capital is money. However, for financial and business purposes, capital is typically viewed from the perspective of current operations and investments in the future.



Capital usually comes with a cost. For debt capital, this is the cost of interest required in repayment. For equity capital, this is the cost of distributions made to shareholders. Overall, capital is deployed to help shape a company's development and growth.




What Does Capital Mean in Economics?
To an economist, capital usually means liquid assets. In other words, it's cash in hand that is available for spending, whether on day-to-day necessities or long-term projects. On a global scale, capital is all of the money that is currently in circulation, being exchanged for day-to-day necessities or longer-term wants.




What Is the Capital in a Business?
The capital of a business is the money it has available to fund its day-to-day operations and to bankroll its expansion for the future. The proceeds of its business are one source of capital.Capital assets are generally a broader term. The capital assets of an individual or a business may include real estate, cars, investments (long or short-term), and other valuable possessions. A business may also have capital assets including expensive machinery, inventory, warehouse space, office equipment, and patents held by the company.Many capital assets are illiquid—that is, they can't be readily turned into cash to meet immediate needs.A company that totaled up its capital value would include every item owned by the business as well as all of its financial assets (minus its liabilities). But an accountant handling the day-to-day budget of the company would consider only its cash on hand as its capital.




What Are Examples of Capital?
Any financial asset that is being used may be capital. The contents of a bank account, the proceeds of a sale of stock shares, or the proceeds of a bond issue all are examples. The proceeds of a business's current operations go onto its balance sheet as capital.




What Are the 3 Sources of Capital?
Most businesses distinguish between working capital, equity capital, and debt capital, although they overlap.Working capital is the money needed to meet the day-to-day operation of the business and pay its obligations promptly.Equity capital is raised by issuing shares in the company, publicly or privately, and is used to fund the expansion of the business.Debt capital is borrowed money. On the balance sheet, the amount borrowed appears as a capital asset while the amount owed appears as a liability.


   The Bottom Line  

The word capital has several meanings depending on its context.



On a company balance sheet, capital is money available for immediate use, whether to keep the day-to-day business running or to launch a new initiative. It may be defined on its balance sheet as working capital, equity capital, or debt capital, depending on its origin and intended use. Brokerages also list trading capital; that is the cash available for routine trading in the markets.



When a company defines its overall capital assets, it generally will include all of its possessions that have a cash value, such as equipment and real estate.



When economists look at capital, they are most often looking at the cash in circulation within an entire economy. Some of the major national economic indicators are the ups and downs of all of the cash in circulation. One example is the monthly Personal Income and Outlays report from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis.
What Is a Capital Account?  

The capital account, in international macroeconomics, is the part of the balance of payments which records all transactions made between entities in one country with entities in the rest of the world. These transactions consist of imports and exports of goods, services, capital, and as transfer payments such as foreign aid and remittances. The balance of payments is composed of a capital account and a current account—though a narrower definition breaks down the capital account into a financial account and a capital account. The capital account measures the changes in national ownership of assets, whereas the current account measures the country's net income.



In accounting, the capital account shows the net worth of a business at a specific point in time. It is also known as owner's equity for a sole proprietorship or shareholders' equity for a corporation, and it is reported in the bottom section of the balance sheet.





Key Takeaways

The capital account, on a national level, represents the balance of payments for a country.The capital account keeps track of the net change in a nation's assets and liabilities during a year.The capital account's balance will inform economists whether the country is a net importer or net exporter of capital.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   How Capital Accounts Work  

Changes in the balance of payments can provide clues about a country’s relative level of economic health and future stability. The capital account indicates whether a country is importing or exporting capital. Big changes in the capital account can indicate how attractive a country is to foreign investors and can have a substantial impact on exchange rates.



Because all the transactions recorded in the balance of payments sum to zero, countries that run large trade deficits (current account deficits), like the United States,﻿﻿ must by definition also run large capital account surpluses. This means more capital is flowing into the country than going out, caused by an increase in foreign ownership of domestic assets. A country with a large trade surplus is exporting capital and running a capital account deficit, which means money is flowing out of the country in exchange for increased ownership in foreign assets.



It is important to remember that the U.S. trade deficit is the consequence of foreign investors finding U.S. assets particularly attractive, and driving up the value of the dollar. Should America's relative appeal to foreign investors fade, the dollar would weaken and the trade deficit would shrink.


   Capital Account vs. Financial Account  

In recent years, many countries have adopted the narrower meaning of capital account used by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). It splits the capital account into two top-level divisions: the financial account and capital account. The capital and financial accounts measure net flows of financial claims (i.e., changes in asset position).﻿﻿ ﻿﻿



An economy's stock of foreign assets versus foreign liabilities is referred to as its net international investment position, or simply net foreign assets, which measures a country's net claims on the rest of the world. If a country’s claims on the rest of the world exceed their claims on it, then it has positive net foreign assets and is said to be a net creditor. If negative, a net debtor. The position changes over time as indicated by the capital and financial account.



The financial account measures increases or decreases in international ownership of assets, whether they be individuals, businesses, governments, or central banks. These assets include foreign direct investments, securities like stocks and bonds, and gold and foreign exchange reserves. The capital account, under this definition, measures financial transactions that do not affect income, production, or savings, such as international transfers of drilling rights, trademarks, and copyrights.


   Current vs. Capital Account  

The current and capital accounts represent two halves of a nation's balance of payments. The current account represents a country's net income over a period of time, while the capital account records the net change of assets and liabilities during a particular year.



In economic terms, the current account deals with the receipt and payment in cash as well as non-capital items, while the capital account reflects sources and utilization of capital. The sum of the current account and capital account reflected in the balance of payments will always be zero. Any surplus or deficit in the current account is matched and canceled out by an equal surplus or deficit in the capital account.



The current account deals with a country's short-term transactions or the difference between its savings and investments. These are also referred to as actual transactions (as they have a real impact on income), output, and employment levels through the movement of goods and services in the economy. The current account consists of visible trade (export and import of goods), invisible trade (export and import of services), unilateral transfers, and investment income (income from factors such as land or foreign shares).



The credit and debit of foreign exchange from these transactions are also recorded in the balance of current account. The resulting balance of the current account is approximated as the sum total of balance of trade.


   Capital Accounts in Accounting  

In accounting, a capital account is a general ledger account that is used to record the owners' contributed capital and retained earnings—the cumulative amount of a company's earnings since it was formed, minus the cumulative dividends paid to the shareholders. It is reported at the bottom of the company's balance sheet, in the equity section. In a sole proprietorship, this section would be referred to as owner's equity and in a corporation, shareholder's equity.



In a corporate balance sheet, the equity section is usually broken down into common stock, preferred stock, additional paid-in capital, retained earnings, and treasury stock accounts. All of the accounts have a natural credit balance, except for treasury stock that has a natural debit balance. Common and preferred stock are recorded at the par value of total shares owned by shareholders. Additional paid-in capital is the amount shareholder's have paid into the company in excess of the par value of stock. Retained earnings is the cumulative earnings of the company overtime, minus dividends paid out to shareholders, that have been reinvested in the company's ongoing business operations. The treasury stock account is a contra equity account that records a company's share buybacks.
What Is the Capital Adequacy Ratio?  

The capital adequacy ratio (CAR) is an indicator of how well a bank can meet its obligations. Also known as the capital-to-risk weighted assets ratio (CRAR), the ratio compares capital to risk-weighted assets and is watched by regulators to determine a bank's risk of failure. It's used to protect depositors and promote the stability and efficiency of financial systems around the world.



Two types of capital are measured:



Tier-1 capital, core funds on hand to manage losses so that a bank can continue operating and,



Tier-2 capital, a secondary supply of funds available from the sale of assets once a bank closes down.





Key Takeaways

CAR is critical to ensure that banks have a large enough financial cushion to absorb a reasonable amount of losses before they become insolvent.CAR is used by regulators to determine capital adequacy for banks and to run stress tests.Tier 1 and tier 2 capital are both used to measure CAR.The downside of using CAR is that it doesn't account for the risk of a potential run on the bank, or what would happen in a financial crisis.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding CAR  

The capital adequacy ratio is calculated by dividing a bank's capital by its risk-weighted assets. Currently, the minimum ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets is 8% under Basel II and 10.5% (which includes a 2.5% conservation buffer) under Basel III. High capital adequacy ratios are those that are higher than the minimum requirements under Basel II and Basel III.



A minimum capital adequacy ratio is critical in ensuring that banks have enough cushion to absorb a reasonable amount of losses before they become insolvent and consequently lose depositors’ funds.



The capital used to calculate the capital adequacy ratio is divided into two tiers. The two capital tiers are added together and divided by risk-weighted assets to calculate a bank's capital adequacy ratio. Risk-weighted assets are calculated by looking at a bank's loans, evaluating the risk and then assigning a weight. When measuring credit exposures, adjustments are made to the value of assets listed on a lender’s balance sheet.



All of the loans the bank has issued are weighted based on their degree of credit risk. For example, loans issued to the government are weighted at 0.0%, while those given to individuals are assigned a weighted score of 100.0%.


  Tier-1 Capital  

Tier-1 capital, or core capital, consists of equity capital, ordinary share capital, intangible assets and audited revenue reserves. Tier-1 capital is the capital that is permanently and easily available to absorb and cushion losses suffered by a bank without it being required to stop operating.


  Tier-2 Capital  

Tier-2 capital comprises unaudited retained earnings, unaudited reserves, and general loss reserves. Tier-2 capital is the capital that absorbs and cushions losses in the case where a bank is winding up. As such, it provides a lesser degree of protection to depositors and creditors. It is used once a bank loses all its Tier-1 capital.


  Risk-Weighted Assets  

Risk-weighted assets are used to determine the minimum amount of capital that must be held by banks and other institutions to reduce the risk of insolvency. The capital requirement is based on a risk assessment for each type of bank asset. For example, a loan that is secured by a letter of credit is considered to be riskier and requires more capital than a mortgage loan that is secured by a house.



Off-balance sheet agreements, such as foreign exchange contracts and guarantees, also have credit risks. Such exposures are converted to their credit equivalent figures and then weighted in a similar fashion to that of on-balance sheet credit exposures. The off-balance sheet and on-balance sheet credit exposures are then added together to obtain the total risk-weighted credit exposures.


   The CAR Formula  

﻿




C


A


R


=




T


i


e


r




1




C


a


p


i


t


a


l


+


T


i


e


r




2




C


a


p


i


t


a


l




R


i


s


k




W


e


i


g


h


t


e


d




A


s


s


e


t


s





CAR = \dfrac{Tier~1~Capital + Tier~2~Capital}{Risk~Weighted~Assets}


CAR=Risk Weighted AssetsTier 1 Capital+Tier 2 Capital​﻿


   Example  

Suppose Acme Bank has $20 million in tier-1 capital and $5 million in tier-2 capital. It has loans that have been weighted and calculated at $65 million. The capital adequacy ratio of Acme Bank is therefore 38% (($20 million + $5 million) / $65 million).



A CAR of 38% is a high capital adequacy ratio. That means that Acme Bank should be able to weather a financial downturn and losses associated with its loans. It is less likely than banks with less than minimum CARs to become insolvent.


   Why the Capital Adequacy Ratio Matters  

Minimum capital adequacy ratios are critical. They can reveal whether individual banks have enough financial cushion to absorb a reasonable amount of loss so that they don't become insolvent and consequently lose depositors’ funds.Broadly, the capital adequacy ratios can help ensure the efficiency and stability of a nation’s financial system by lowering the risk of banks collapsing. Generally speaking, a bank with a high capital adequacy ratio is considered safe and likely to meet its financial commitments.During the winding up process, funds belonging to depositors are given a higher priority than the bank’s capital. So depositors are only at risk of losing their savings if a bank registers a loss that exceeds the amount of capital it possesses. Thus, the higher the bank’s capital adequacy ratio, the higher the degree of protection for depositors' assets.






All things considered, a bank with a high capital adequacy ratio (CAR) is perceived as healthy and in good shape to meet its financial obligations.


   CAR vs. the Solvency Ratio  

Both the capital adequacy ratio and the solvency ratio provide ways to evaluate a company's ability to meet financial obligations.



However, the capital adequacy ratio is applied specifically to banks and measures their abilities to overcome financial losses related to loans they've made. The solvency ratio debt evaluation metric is used to measure whether a company has enough available cash to meet its own short- and long-term debt obligations. Solvency ratios below 20% indicate an increased likelihood of default.



Analysts often favor the solvency ratio because it measures actual cash flow rather than net income, not all of which may be readily available to a company to meet debt obligations. The solvency ratio is best used to compare debt situations of similar firms within the same industry, as certain industries tend to be significantly more debt-heavy than others.


   CAR vs. Tier-1 Leverage Ratio  

The tier-1 leverage ratio is related to the capital adequacy ratio. The tier-1 leverage ratio compares a bank's core capital with its total assets. It is calculated by dividing Tier-1 capital by a bank's average total consolidated assets and certain off-balance sheet exposures. The higher the tier-1 leverage ratio is, the more likely a bank can withstand negative shocks to its balance sheet.


   Limitation of Using CAR  

One limitation of CAR is that it fails to account for expected losses during a bank run or financial crisis that can distort a bank's capital and cost of capital.
Many analysts and bank executives consider the economic capital measure to be a more accurate and reliable assessment of a bank's financial soundness and risk exposure than the capital adequacy ratio.
The calculation of economic capital, which estimates the amount of capital a bank needs on hand to ensure its ability to handle its current outstanding risk, is based on the bank's financial health, credit rating, expected losses, and confidence level of solvency.
By including such economic possibilities as expected losses, this measurement is thought to represent a more realistic appraisal of a bank's actual financial health and risk level.




What Are the Basel Accords?
They are a trio of regulatory agreements formed by the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision. The Committee weighs in on regulations that concern a bank's capital risk, market risk, and operational risk. The purpose of the agreements is to ensure that banks (and other financial institutions) always have enough capital to deal with unexpected losses.




What's the Minimum Capital Adequacy Ratio Allowed?
According to the Basel II agreement, the minimum is 8%. With the Basel III agreement, and an added conservation buffer of 2.5%, it is 10.5%. The U.S.'s Federal Deposit Insurance Company (FDIC) calls for an 8% minimum ratio for total capital to total risk-weighted assets.




What's the Purpose of the Capital Adequacy Ratio?
The capital adequacy ratio is intended to ensure that banks have enough funds available to handle a reasonable amount of losses and prevent insolvency.


   The Bottom Line  

CAR, or the capital adequacy ratio, is a comparison of the available capital that a bank has on hand to its risk-weighted assets. The ratio provides a quick idea of whether a bank has enough funds to cover losses and remain solvent under difficult financial circumstances. CAR minimums are 8.0% under Basel II and 10.5% (with an added 2.5% conservation buffer) under Basel III. The higher the CAR, the better able a bank should be to meet its financial obligations when under stress.
Capital assets are significant pieces of property such as homes, cars, investment properties, stocks, bonds, and even collectibles or art. For businesses, a capital asset is an asset with a useful life longer than a year that is not intended for sale in the regular course of the business's operation. This also makes it a type of production cost. For example, if one company buys a computer to use in its office, the computer is a capital asset. If another company buys the same computer to sell, it is considered inventory.





Key Takeaways

Capital assets are assets that are used in a company's business operations to generate revenue over the course of more than one year.They are often recorded as an asset on the balance sheet and expensed over the useful life of the asset through a process called depreciation.Expensing the asset over the course of its useful life helps to match the cost of the asset with the revenue it generated over the same time period.Capital assets may be tangible or intangible, though most capital assets are related to buildings, land, or FFE.Capital assets are different than ordinary assets in that capital assets are more useful in the long-term whereas ordinary assets primary value is in the day-to-day operations of the company.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Types of Capital Assets in Business  
  Tangible Assets  

A capital asset is generally owned for its role in contributing to the business's ability to generate profit. Furthermore, it is expected that the benefits gained from the asset will extend beyond a time span of one year. On a business's balance sheet, capital assets are represented by the property, plant, and equipment (PP&E) figure.



Examples of PP&E include land, buildings, and machinery. These assets may be liquidated in worst-case scenarios, such as if a company is restructuring or declares bankruptcy. In other cases, a business disposes of capital assets if the business is growing and needs something better. For example, a business may sell one property and buy a larger one in a better location.



In many cases, companies may develop their own capital assets. For example, a company may buy land (a capital asset), then deploy money and labor to build a building, warehouse, or manufacturing plant. Each of these structures is a capital asset that would likely provide long-term benefit to the company.


  Intangible Assets  

Though many capital assets are usually physical assets you can touch, capital assets can technically be intangible goods. Stocks, bonds, trademarks, patents, or other non-physical goods can be capital assets depending on their use. Capital assets may also represent a claim on indebtedness, mutual funds, or tenancy rights.



It is important to note that intangible assets may have different limitations when expensing or depreciating the value of the assets. Another distinction between tangible assets and intangible assets is it may be easier to value a tangible asset due to more liquid and robust markets. Intangible assets that act as capital assets must be periodically evaluated to ensure they still retain their value.






The phrase "capital assets" isn't used on financial statements; instead the balance sheet will be broken into current assets and long-term assets.


   Selling or Maintaining Capital Assets  

Businesses may dispose of capital assets by selling them, trading them, abandoning them, or losing them in foreclosures. In some cases, condemnation also counts as a disposition. In most cases, if the business owned the asset for longer than a year, it incurs a capital gain or loss on the sale. However, in some instances, the IRS treats the gain like regular income.﻿﻿



Capital assets can also be damaged or become obsolete. When an asset is impaired, its fair value decreases, which will lead to an adjustment of book value on the balance sheet. A loss will also be recognized on the income statement. If the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment expense amounting to the difference is recognized in the period. If the carrying amount is less than the recoverable amount, no impairment is recognized.


   Individuals and Capital Assets  

Any significant asset owned by an individual is a capital asset. If an individual sells a stock, a piece of art, an investment property, or another capital asset and earns money on the sale, they realize a capital gain. The IRS requires individuals to report capital gains on which a capital gains tax is levied.



Even an individual's primary home is considered a capital asset. However, the IRS gives couples filing jointly a $500,000 tax exclusion and individuals filing as single a $250,000 exclusion on capitals gains earned through the sale of their primary residences. However, an individual cannot claim a loss from the sale of their primary residence. If an individual sells a capital asset and loses money, they can claim the loss against their gains, but their losses cannot exceed their gains.



For example, if an individual buys a $100,000 stock and sells it for $200,000, they report a $100,000 capital gain, but if they buy a $100,000 home and sell it years later for $200,000, they do not have to report the gain due to the $250,000 exemption. Although both the home and the stock are capital assets, the IRS treats them differently.






Capital assets are not to be confused with the term "capital". Capital is another word for money or financing, whereas capital assets represent a collection of certain types of assets (money not being one of them).


   Capital Assets Recording and Taxation  

The cost for capital assets may include transportation costs, installation costs, and insurance costs related to the purchased asset. If a firm purchased machinery for $500,000 and incurred transportation expenses of $10,000 and installation costs of $7,500, the cost of the machinery will be recognized at $517,500.



When a business purchases capital assets, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers the purchase a capital expense. In most cases, businesses can deduct expenses incurred during a tax year from their revenue collected during the same tax year, and report the difference as their business income. However, most capital expenses cannot be claimed in the year of purchase, but instead must be capitalized as an asset and written off to expense incrementally over a number of years.


   Depreciation of Capital Assets  

Using depreciation, a business expenses a portion of the asset's value over each year of its useful life, instead of allocating the entire expense to the year in which the asset is purchased. The purpose of depreciating an asset over time is to align the cost of the asset to the same year as the revenue generated by the asset, in line with the matching principle of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).



This means that each year that the equipment or machinery is put to use, the cost associated with using up the asset is recorded. In effect, capital assets lose value as they age. The rate at which a company chooses to depreciate its assets may result in a book value that differs from the current market value of the assets.


   Capital Assets vs. Ordinary Asset  

An ordinary asset is an item that holds future economic value to a company or individual, and that future economic benefit is expected to be used within the next year. For example, cash is an ordinary asset because it used to operate a business every day. Other examples of ordinary assets include inventory, prepaids, and account receivables.



The distinction between capital assets and ordinary assets is usually the timeframe in which the asset is going to be a used. A business may be used over decades, so it is a capital asset. Inventory is bought and sold as part of the normal course of business, so it is an ordinary asset. Capital assets are usually classified as long-term assets on the balance sheet, whereas ordinary assets are usually classified as short-term.


   Capital Asset vs. Fixed Asset  

In accounting, a fixed asset is a type of capital asset that is tangible that a company intends to use for more than one year. A fixed asset is usually a building or PPE that is depreciated over time.



The difference between the two is that capital assets is a more expansive collection of assets. A capital asset may refer to any company asset with a useful life greater than one year that is not meant to be bought or sold as part of the normal course of action of business. Although capital assets may primarily be fixed assets, capital assets may also include non-fixed assets such as property held for investment like stocks and bonds for personal gain.




What Defines a Capital Asset?
A capital asset is an asset with future economic benefit often extending beyond one year. Companies and individuals hold capital assets for long-term benefit, and this group of assets is defined by the nature of its long-lasting value, its uniqueness in relation to not being part of a normal course of business, and its often higher dollar value.




Is Gold a Capital Asset?
Gold can technically be a capital asset if it is held as an investment. If gold is held as an inventory item or as a raw material to be used in a manufacturing process, it is more appropriately classified as an ordinary asset.




Are Capital Assets Better Than Ordinary Assets?
Capital assets are used differently than ordinary assets. If a company wants to secure for financial security in the future, it might be better pursuing capital assets as these items tend to have rigid, stable, and scalable economic value. On the other hand, a company needs ordinary assets to operate. Without cash, inventory, or other items that turn over during the normal cycle of business, the company couldn't operate. Therefore, it's not to say that one is better than the other - the two types of assets simply have different purposes.




How Can a Company Acquire More Capital Assets?
There's two ways a company usually acquires capital assets. First, capital assets require a lot of money, something new companies tend to not have. Therefore, capital assets may be acquired using initial equity via investments. The idea here is an investor puts money into a business, the business uses that money to buy capital assets, the capital assets help drive operating income, and that operating income is returned to the investor.The other way capital assets may be financed is through operations, creating a cycle of asset usage. If a company self-funded the capital assets (perhaps via debt), it can now use those assets to generate income that can be used to buy new, other capital assets in the future.


   The Bottom Line  

Capital assets are generally tangible, illiquid, long-term assets that carry higher value compared to ordinary assets. Capital assets often have a benefit that extends beyond one year, and companies usually use capital assets as an integral part of their business operations. Companies often also represent personal assets of an individual; in this situation, capital assets are the significant pieces of investment that person owns.
What Is the Capital Asset Pricing Model?  

The Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) describes the relationship between systematic risk, or the general perils of investing, and expected return for assets, particularly stocks. It is a finance model that establishes a linear relationship between the required return on an investment and risk. The model is based on the relationship between an asset's beta, the risk-free rate (typically the Treasury bill rate), and the equity risk premium, or the expected return on the market minus the risk-free rate.



CAPM evolved as a way to measure this systematic risk. It is widely used throughout finance for pricing risky securities and generating expected returns for assets, given the risk of those assets and cost of capital.





Key Takeaways

The capital asset pricing model - or CAPM - is a financial model that calculates the expected rate of return for an asset or investment.CAPM does this by using the expected return on both the market and a risk-free asset, and the asset's correlation or sensitivity to the market (beta).There are some limitations to the CAPM, such as making unrealistic assumptions and relying on a linear interpretation of risk vs. return.Despite its issues, the CAPM formula is still widely used because it is simple and allows for easy comparisons of investment alternatives.For instance, it is used in conjunction with modern portfolio theory (MPT) to understand portfolio risk and expected return.












Jessica Olah / Investopedia


   Understanding the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM)  

The formula for calculating the expected return of an asset, given its risk, is as follows:















E



R


i



=



R


f



+



β


i



(


E



R


m



−



R


f



)
















where:
















E



R


i



=


expected return of investment

















R


f



=


risk-free rate

















β


i



=


beta of the investment
















(


E



R


m



−



R


f



)


=


market risk premium







\begin{aligned} &ER_i = R_f + \beta_i ( ER_m - R_f ) \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &ER_i = \text{expected return of investment} \\ &R_f = \text{risk-free rate} \\ &\beta_i = \text{beta of the investment} \\ &(ER_m - R_f) = \text{market risk premium} \\ \end{aligned}


​ERi​=Rf​+βi​(ERm​−Rf​)where:ERi​=expected return of investmentRf​=risk-free rateβi​=beta of the investment(ERm​−Rf​)=market risk premium​
Investors expect to be compensated for risk and the time value of money. The risk-free rate in the CAPM formula accounts for the time value of money. The other components of the CAPM formula account for the investor taking on additional risk.
The goal of the CAPM formula is to evaluate whether a stock is fairly valued when its risk and the time value of money are compared with its expected return. In other words, by knowing the individual parts of the CAPM, it is possible to gauge whether the current price of a stock is consistent with its likely return.


   CAPM and Beta  

The beta of a potential investment is a measure of how much risk the investment will add to a portfolio that looks like the market. If a stock is riskier than the market, it will have a beta greater than one. If a stock has a beta of less than one, the formula assumes it will reduce the risk of a portfolio.



A stock’s beta is then multiplied by the market risk premium, which is the return expected from the market above the risk-free rate. The risk-free rate is then added to the product of the stock’s beta and the market risk premium. The result should give an investor the required return or discount rate that they can use to find the value of an asset.


   CAPM Example  

For example, imagine an investor is contemplating a stock valued at $100 per share today that pays a 3% annual dividend. Say that this stock has a beta compared with the market of 1.3, which means it is more volatile than a broad market portfolio (i.e., the S&P 500 index). Also, assume that the risk-free rate is 3% and this investor expects the market to rise in value by 8% per year.



The expected return of the stock based on the CAPM formula is 9.5%:


















9.5


%


=


3


%


+


1.3


×


(


8


%


−


3


%


)







\begin{aligned} &9.5\% = 3\% + 1.3 \times ( 8\% - 3\% ) \\ \end{aligned}


​9.5%=3%+1.3×(8%−3%)​



The expected return of the CAPM formula is used to discount the expected dividends and capital appreciation of the stock over the expected holding period. If the discounted value of those future cash flows is equal to $100, then the CAPM formula indicates the stock is fairly valued relative to risk.


   Problems with the CAPM  
  Unrealistic Assumptions  

Several assumptions behind the CAPM formula have been shown not to hold up in reality. Modern financial theory rests on two assumptions:



Securities markets are very competitive and efficient (that is, relevant information about the companies is quickly and universally distributed and absorbed).
These markets are dominated by rational, risk-averse investors, who seek to maximize satisfaction from returns on their investments.



As a result, it’s not entirely clear whether CAPM works. The big sticking point is beta. When professors Eugene Fama and Kenneth French looked at share returns on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, and Nasdaq, they found that differences in betas over a lengthy period did not explain the performance of different stocks. The linear relationship between beta and individual stock returns also breaks down over shorter periods of time. These findings seem to suggest that CAPM may be wrong.



Including beta in the formula assumes that risk can be measured by a stock’s price volatility. However, price movements in both directions are not equally risky. The look-back period to determine a stock’s volatility is not standard because stock returns (and risk) are not normally distributed.



The CAPM also assumes that the risk-free rate will remain constant over the discounting period. Assume in the previous example that the interest rate on U.S. Treasury bonds rose to 5% or 6% during the 10-year holding period. An increase in the risk-free rate also increases the cost of the capital used in the investment and could make the stock look overvalued.


  Estimating the Risk Premium  

The market portfolio used to find the market risk premium is only a theoretical value and is not an asset that can be purchased or invested in as an alternative to the stock. Most of the time, investors will use a major stock index, like the S&P 500, to substitute for the market, which is an imperfect comparison.



The most serious critique of the CAPM is the assumption that future cash flows can be estimated for the discounting process. If an investor could estimate the future return of a stock with a high level of accuracy, then the CAPM would not be necessary.


   The CAPM and the Efficient Frontier  

Using the CAPM to build a portfolio is supposed to help an investor manage their risk. If an investor were able to use the CAPM to perfectly optimize a portfolio’s return relative to risk, it would exist on a curve called the efficient frontier, as shown in the following graph.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2022



The graph shows how greater expected returns (y-axis) require greater expected risk (x-axis). Modern portfolio theory (MPT) suggests that starting with the risk-free rate, the expected return of a portfolio increases as the risk increases. Any portfolio that fits on the capital market line (CML) is better than any possible portfolio to the right of that line, but at some point, a theoretical portfolio can be constructed on the CML with the best return for the amount of risk being taken.



The CML and the efficient frontier may be difficult to define, but they illustrate an important concept for investors: There is a tradeoff between increased return and increased risk. Because it isn’t possible to perfectly build a portfolio that fits on the CML, it is more common for investors to take on too much risk as they seek additional return.



In the following chart, you can see two portfolios that have been constructed to fit along the efficient frontier. Portfolio A is expected to return 8% per year and has a 10% standard deviation or risk level. Portfolio B is expected to return 10% per year but has a 16% standard deviation. The risk of Portfolio B rose faster than its expected returns.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2022


   CAPM and the Security Market Line (SML)  

The efficient frontier assumes the same things as the CAPM and can only be calculated in theory. If a portfolio existed on the efficient frontier, it would provide maximal return for its level of risk. However, it is impossible to know whether a portfolio exists on the efficient frontier because future returns cannot be predicted.



This tradeoff between risk and return applies to the CAPM, and the efficient frontier graph can be rearranged to illustrate the tradeoff for individual assets. In the following chart, you can see that the CML is now called the security market line (SML). Instead of expected risk on the x-axis, the stock’s beta is used. As you can see in the illustration, as beta increases from 1 to 2, the expected return is also rising.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2022



The CAPM and the SML make a connection between a stock’s beta and its expected risk. Beta is found by statistical analysis of individual, daily share price returns compared with the market’s daily returns over precisely the same period. A higher beta means more risk, but a portfolio of high-beta stocks could exist somewhere on the CML where the tradeoff is acceptable, if not the theoretical ideal.



The value of these two models is diminished by assumptions about beta and market participants that aren’t true in the real markets. For example, beta does not account for the relative riskiness of a stock that is more volatile than the market with a high frequency of downside shocks compared with another stock with an equally high beta that does not experience the same kind of price movements to the downside.


   Practical Value of the CAPM  

Considering the critiques of the CAPM and the assumptions behind its use in portfolio construction, it might be difficult to see how it could be useful. However, using the CAPM as a tool to evaluate the reasonableness of future expectations or to conduct comparisons can still have some value.



Imagine an advisor who has proposed adding a stock to a portfolio with a $100 share price. The advisor uses the CAPM to justify the price with a discount rate of 13%. The advisor’s investment manager can take this information and compare it with the company’s past performance and its peers to see if a 13% return is a reasonable expectation. Assume in this example that the peer group’s performance over the last few years was a little better than 10% while this stock had consistently underperformed, with 9% returns. The investment manager shouldn’t take the advisor’s recommendation without some justification for the increased expected return.



An investor also can use the concepts from the CAPM and the efficient frontier to evaluate their portfolio or individual stock performance vs. the rest of the market. For example, assume that an investor’s portfolio has returned 10% per year for the last three years with a standard deviation of returns (risk) of 10%. However, the market averages have returned 10% for the last three years with a risk of 8%.



The investor could use this observation to reevaluate how their portfolio is constructed and which holdings may not be on the SML. This could explain why the investor’s portfolio is to the right of the CML. If the holdings that are either dragging on returns or have increased the portfolio’s risk disproportionately can be identified, then the investor can make changes to improve returns. Not surprisingly, the CAPM contributed to the rise in the use of indexing, or assembling a portfolio of shares to mimic a particular market or asset class, by risk-averse investors. This is largely due to the CAPM message that it is only possible to earn higher returns than those of the market as a whole by taking on higher risk (beta).




Who Came Up with the CAPM?
The capital asset pricing model was developed by the financial economists William Sharpe, Jack Treynor, John Lintner, and Jan Mossin in the early 1960s, who built their work on ideas put forth by Harry Markowitz in the 1950s.




What Are Some of the Assumptions Built In to the CAPM Model?
The following are assumptions made by the CAPM model:All investors are risk-averse by nature.Investors have the same time period to evaluate information.There is unlimited capital to borrow at the risk-free rate of return.Investments can be divided into unlimited pieces and sizes.There are no taxes, inflation, or transaction costs.Risk and return are linearly relatedMany of these assumptions have been challenged as being unrealistic or plain wrong.




What Are Some Alternatives to the CAPM?
Because of its criticisms, several alternative models to the capital asset pricing model have been developed to understand the relationship between risk and reward in investments.One of these is arbitrage pricing theory (APT), a multi-factor model that looks at multiple factors, grouped into macroeconomic or company-specific factors.Another is the Fama-French 3-factor model, which expands on CAPM by adding company-size risk and value risk factors to the market risk factors.In 2015, Fama and French adapted their model to include five factors. Along with the original three factors, the new model adds the concept that companies reporting higher future earnings have higher returns in the stock market, a factor referred to as profitability. The fifth factor, referred to as "investment", relates the concept of internal investment and returns, suggesting that companies directing profit towards major growth projects are likely to experience losses in the stock market.




What Is the International Capital Asset Pricing Model (ICAPM)?
The international capital asset pricing model (ICAPM) is a financial model that applies the traditional CAPM principle to international investments. It extends CAPM by considering the direct and indirect exposure to foreign currency in addition to time value and market risk included in the CAPM.


   The Bottom Line  

The CAPM uses the principles of modern portfolio theory to determine if a security is fairly valued. It relies on assumptions about investor behaviors, risk and return distributions, and market fundamentals that don’t match reality. However, the underlying concepts of CAPM and the associated efficient frontier can help investors understand the relationship between expected risk and reward as they strive to make better decisions about adding securities to a portfolio.
What Is Capital Budgeting?  

Capital budgeting is a process that businesses use to evaluate potential major projects or investments. Building a new plant or taking a large stake in an outside venture are examples of initiatives that typically require capital budgeting before they are approved or rejected by management.



As part of capital budgeting, a company might assess a prospective project's lifetime cash inflows and outflows to determine whether the potential returns it would generate meet a sufficient target benchmark. The capital budgeting process is also known as investment appraisal.





Key Takeaways

Capital budgeting is used by companies to evaluate major projects and investments, such as new plants or equipment. The process involves analyzing a project's cash inflows and outflows to determine whether the expected return meets a set benchmark.  The major methods of capital budgeting include discounted cash flow, payback analysis, and throughput analysis.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   How Capital Budgeting Works  

Ideally, businesses could pursue any and all projects and opportunities that might enhance shareholder value and profit. However, because the amount of capital any business has available for new projects is limited, management often uses capital budgeting techniques to determine which projects will yield the best return over an applicable period.



Although there are a number of capital budgeting methods, three of the most common ones are discounted cash flow, payback analysis, and throughput analysis.


   Discounted Cash Flow Analysis  

Discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis looks at the initial cash outflow needed to fund a project, the mix of cash inflows in the form of revenue, and other future outflows in the form of maintenance and other costs.



These cash flows, except for the initial outflow, are discounted back to the present date. The resulting number from the DCF analysis is the net present value (NPV). The cash flows are discounted since present value assumes that a particular amount of money today is worth more than the same amount in the future, due to inflation.



In any project decision, there is an opportunity cost, meaning the return that the company would have received had it pursued a different project instead. In other words, the cash inflows or revenue from the project need to be enough to account for the costs, both initial and ongoing, but also to exceed any opportunity costs.



With present value, the future cash flows are discounted by the risk-free rate such as the rate on a U.S. Treasury bond, which is guaranteed by the U.S. government, making it as safe as it gets. The future cash flows are discounted by the risk-free rate (or discount rate) because the project needs to at least earn that amount; otherwise, it wouldn't be worth pursuing.



In addition, a company might borrow money to finance a project and, as a result, must earn at least enough revenue to cover the financing costs, known as the cost of capital. Publicly traded companies might use a combination of debt—such as bonds or a bank credit facility—and equity, by issuing more shares of stock. The cost of capital is usually a weighted average of both equity and debt. The goal is to calculate the hurdle rate or the minimum amount that the project needs to earn from its cash inflows to cover the costs. To proceed with a project, the company will want to have a reasonable expectation that its rate of return will exceed the hurdle rate.



Project managers can use the DCF model to decide which of several competing projects is likely to be more profitable and worth pursuing. Projects with the highest NPV should generally rank over others. However, project managers must also consider any risks involved in pursuing one project versus another.


   Payback Analysis  

Payback analysis is the simplest form of capital budgeting analysis, but it's also the least accurate. It is still widely used because it's quick and can give managers a "back of the envelope" understanding of the real value of a proposed project.



Payback analysis calculates how long it will take to recoup the costs of an investment. The payback period is identified by dividing the initial investment in the project by the average yearly cash inflow that the project will generate. For example, if it costs $400,000 for the initial cash outlay, and the project generates $100,000 per year in revenue, it will take four years to recoup the investment.



Payback analysis is usually used when companies have only a limited amount of funds (or liquidity) to invest in a project, and therefore need to know how quickly they can get back their investment. The project with the shortest payback period would likely be chosen. However, the payback method has some limitations, one of them being that it ignores the opportunity cost.



Also, payback analysis doesn't typically include any cash flows near the end of the project's life. For example, if a project that's being considered involves buying factory equipment, the cash flows or revenue generated from that equipment would be considered but not the equipment's salvage value at the conclusion of the project. As a result, payback analysis is not considered a true measure of how profitable a project is, but instead provides a rough estimate of how quickly an initial investment can be recouped.





Salvage value

Salvage value is the value of an asset, such as equipment, at the end of its useful life.


   Throughput Analysis   

Throughput analysis is the most complicated method of capital budgeting analysis, but it's also the most accurate in helping managers decide which projects to pursue. Under this method, the entire company is considered as a single profit-generating system. Throughput is measured as an amount of material passing through that system.



The analysis assumes that nearly all costs are operating expenses, that a company needs to maximize the throughput of the entire system to pay for expenses, and that the way to maximize profits is to maximize the throughput passing through a bottleneck operation. A bottleneck is the resource in the system that requires the longest time in operations. This means that managers should always place a higher priority on capital budgeting projects that will increase throughput or flow passing through the bottleneck.




What Is the Primary Purpose of Capital Budgeting?
Capital budgeting's main goal is to identify projects that produce cash flows that exceed the cost of the project for a company.




What Is an Example of a Capital Budgeting Decision?
Capital budgeting decisions are often associated with choosing to undertake a new project that will expand a company's current operations. Opening a new store location, for example, would be one such decision for a fast-food chain or clothing retailer.




What Is the Difference Between Capital Budgeting and Working Capital Management?
Working capital management is a company-wide process that evaluates current projects to determine whether they are adding value to the business, while capital budgeting focuses on expanding the current operations or assets of the business.


   The Bottom Line  

Capital budgeting is a useful tool that companies can use to decide whether to devote capital to a particular new project or investment. There are several capital budgeting methods that managers can use, ranging from the crude but quick to the more complex and sophisticated.
What Is Capital Employed?  

Capital employed, also known as funds employed, is the total amount of capital used for the acquisition of profits by a firm or project. Capital employed can also refer to the value of all the assets used by a company to generate earnings.



By employing capital, companies invest in the long-term future of the company. Capital employed is helpful since it's used with other financial metrics to determine the return on a company's assets as well as how effective management is at employing capital.





Key Takeaways

Capital employed is derived by subtracting current liabilities from total assets; or alternatively by adding noncurrent liabilities to owners' equity.Capital employed tells you how much has been put to use in an investment.Return on capital employed (ROCE) is a common financial analysis metric to determine the return on an investment.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Formula and Calculation of Capital Employed  

﻿









Capital employed









=


Total assets


−


Current liabilities








\begin{aligned} \text{Capital employed} &= \text{Total assets} - \text{Current liabilities} \\ &=\text{Equity} + \text{Noncurrent liabilities} \end{aligned}


Capital employed​=Total assets−Current liabilities​﻿



Capital employed is calculated by taking total assets from the balance sheet and subtracting current liabilities, which are short-term financial obligations.



Capital employed can be calculated by adding fixed assets to working capital, or by adding equity—found in shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet—to non-current liabilities, meaning long-term liabilities.


   What Capital Employed Can Tell You  

Capital employed can give a snapshot of how a company is investing its money. However, it is a frequently used term that is at the same time very difficult to define because there are so many contexts in which it can be used. All definitions generally refer to the capital investment necessary for a business to function.



Capital investments include stocks and long-term liabilities. It also refers to the value of assets used in the operation of a business. In other words, it is a measure of the value of assets minus current liabilities. Both of these measures can be found on the balance sheet. A current liability is the portion of debt that must be paid back within one year. In this way, capital employed is a more accurate estimate of total assets.



Capital employed is better interpreted by combining it with other information to form an analysis metric such as return on capital employed (ROCE).


   Return on Capital Employed (ROCE)  

Capital employed is primarily used by analysts to determine the return on capital employed (ROCE). Like return on assets (ROA), investors use ROCE to get an approximation of what their return might be in the future. Return on capital employed (ROCE) is thought of as a profitability ratio. It compares net operating profit to capital employed and tells investors how much each dollar of earnings is generated with each dollar of capital employed.



Some analysts prefer return on capital employed over return on equity and return on assets since it takes long-term financing into consideration, and is a better gauge for the performance or profitability of the company over a longer period of time.



A higher return on capital employed suggests a more efficient company, at least in terms of capital employment. A higher number may also be indicative of a company with a lot of cash on hand since cash is included in total assets. As a result, high levels of cash can sometimes skew this metric.



Return on capital employed is calculated by dividing net operating profit, or earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), by employed capital. Another way to calculate it is by dividing earnings before interest and taxes by the difference between total assets and current liabilities.


   Example of How to Use Capital Employed  

Let's calculate the historical return on capital employed by three tech companies—Alphabet Inc., Apple Inc., and Microsoft Corporation—for the fiscal year ended 2021.











(in $millions)
Alphabet
Apple
Microsoft




EBIT
$41,047
$65,339
$69,916


Total Assets (TA)
$319,616
$323,888
$333,779


Current Liabilities (CL)
$56,834
$105,392
$88,657


TA - CL
$262,782
$218,496
$245,122


Return on Capital Employed
0.1562
0.2990
0.2852






Of the three companies, Apple Inc. has the highest return on capital employed of 29.9%. A return on capital employed of 29.9% means that for every dollar invested in capital employed for 12 months ended September 30, 2021, the company made almost 30 cents in profits. Investors are interested in the ratio to see how efficiently a company uses its capital employed as well as its long-term financing strategies.




What Is a Good Return on Capital Employed?
In general, the higher the return on capital employed (ROCE), the better it is for a company. The ROCE calculation shows how much profit a company generates for each dollar of capital employed. The higher the number (which is expressed as a percentage), the more profit the company is generating.One way to determine if a company has a good return on capital employed is to compare the company's ROCE to that of other companies in the same sector or industry. The highest ROCE indicates the company with the best profitability among those being compared.Another way to determine if a company has a good ROCE is to compare it to the returns from previous years. If the ratios are trending down over a span of several years, it means the company's profitability levels are declining. Conversely, if ROCE is increasing, this means the company's profitability is increasing as well.




What Is Return on Average Capital Employed?
Return on average capital employed (ROACE) is a ratio that measures a company's profitability versus the investments it has made in itself. To calculate ROACE, divide earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) by the average total assets minus the average current liabilities. ROACE differs from the return on capital employed (ROCE) because it takes into account the averages of assets and liabilities over a period of time.




How Do You Calculate Capital Employed From a Company's Balance Sheet?
First, find the net value of all fixed assets on the company's balance sheet. You'll see this value listed as property, plant, and equipment (PP&E). To this number, add the value of all capital investments and current assets. From this number, subtract all current liabilities. These include all financial obligations due in a year or less. Examples of current liabilities listed on a company's balance sheet include accounts payable, short-term debt, and dividends payable.
What Are Capital Expenditures (CapEx)?  

Capital expenditures (CapEx) are funds used by a company to acquire, upgrade, and maintain physical assets such as property, plants, buildings, technology, or equipment. CapEx is often used to undertake new projects or investments by a company. Making capital expenditures on fixed assets can include repairing a roof (if the useful life of the roof is extended), purchasing a piece of equipment, or building a new factory. This type of financial outlay is made by companies to increase the scope of their operations or add some future economic benefit to the operation.





Key Takeaways

Capital expenditures are payments made for goods or services that are recorded or capitalized on a company's balance sheet instead of expensed on the income statement.Spending is important for companies to maintain existing property and equipment, and to invest in new technology and other assets for growth.If an item has a useful life of less than one year, it must be expensed on the income statement rather than capitalized, which means it isn't considered CapEx.Unlike CapEx, operating expenses (OpEx) are shorter-term expenses used for the day-to-day operations of a business.Examples of CapEx include the purchase of land, vehicles, buildings, or heavy machinery.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Capital Expenditures (CapEx)  

CapEx can tell you how much a company invests in existing and new fixed assets to maintain or grow its business. Put differently, CapEx is any type of expense that a company capitalizes or shows on its balance sheet as an investment rather than on its income statement as an expenditure. Capitalizing an asset requires the company to spread the cost of the expenditure over the useful life of the asset.



The amount of capital expenditures a company is likely to have depends on the industry. Some of the most capital-intensive industries have the highest levels of capital expenditures, including oil exploration and production, telecommunications, manufacturing, and utility industries.



CapEx can be found in the cash flow from investing activities in a company's cash flow statement. Different companies highlight CapEx in a number of ways, and an analyst or investor may see it listed as capital spending, purchases of property, plant, and equipment (PP&E), or acquisition expense.



You can also calculate capital expenditures by using data from a company's income statement and balance sheet. On the income statement, find the amount of depreciation expense recorded for the current period. On the balance sheet, locate the current period's property, plant, and equipment line-item balance.



Locate the company's prior-period PP&E balance, and take the difference between the two to find the change in the company's PP&E balance. Add the change in PP&E to the current-period depreciation expense to arrive at the company's current-period CapEx spending.


   Types of CapEx  

Many different types of assets can attribute long-term value to a company. Therefore, there are several types of purchases that may be considered CapEx.



Buildings may be used for office space, manufacturing of goods, storage of inventory, or other purposes.
Land may be used for further development. Accounting treatment may different for land specifically held as a speculative long-term investment.
Equipment and machinery may be used to manufacture goods and convert raw materials into final products for sale.
Computers or servers may be used to support the operational aspects of a company including the logistics, reporting, and communication of operations. Software may also be treated as CapEx in certain circumstances.
Furniture may be used to furnish an office building to make the space usable by staff and customers.
Vehicles may be used to transport goods, pick up clients, or used by staff for business purposes.
Patents may hold long-term value should the right to own an idea come to fruition through product development.


   Formula and Calculation of CapEx  
















CapEx


=


Δ


PP&E


+


Current Depreciation
















where:
















CapEx


=


Capital expenditures
















Δ


PP&E


=


Change in property, plant, and equipment







\begin{aligned} &\text{CapEx} = \Delta \text{PP\&E} + \text{Current Depreciation} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{CapEx} = \text{Capital expenditures} \\ &\Delta \text{PP\&E} = \text{Change in property, plant, and equipment} \\ \end{aligned}


​CapEx=ΔPP&E+Current Depreciationwhere:CapEx=Capital expendituresΔPP&E=Change in property, plant, and equipment​



Capital expenditures are also used in calculating free cash flow to equity (FCFE). FCFE is the amount of cash available to equity shareholders. The formula FCFE is:


















FCFE


=


EP


−


(


CE


−


D


)


×


(


1


−


DR


)


−


Δ


C


×


(


1


−


DR


)
















where:
















FCFE


=


Free cash flow to equity
















EP


=


Earnings per share
















CE


=


CapEx
















D


=


Depreciation
















DR


=


Debt ratio
















Δ


C


=


Δ


Net capital, change in net working capital







\begin{aligned} &\text{FCFE} = \text{EP} - ( \text{CE} - \text{D} ) \times ( 1 - \text{DR} ) - \Delta \text{C} \times ( 1 - \text{DR} ) \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{FCFE} = \text{Free cash flow to equity} \\ &\text{EP} = \text{Earnings per share} \\ &\text{CE} = \text{CapEx} \\ &\text{D} = \text{Depreciation} \\ &\text{DR} = \text{Debt ratio} \\ &\Delta \text{C} = \Delta \text{Net capital, change in net working capital} \\ \end{aligned}


​FCFE=EP−(CE−D)×(1−DR)−ΔC×(1−DR)where:FCFE=Free cash flow to equityEP=Earnings per shareCE=CapExD=DepreciationDR=Debt ratioΔC=ΔNet capital, change in net working capital​



Or, alternatively, it can be calculated as: 


















FCFE


=


NI


−


NCE


−


Δ


C


+


ND


−


DR
















where:
















NI


=


Net income
















NCE


=


Net CapEx
















ND


=


New debt
















DR


=


Debt repayment







\begin{aligned} &\text{FCFE} = \text{NI} - \text{NCE} - \Delta \text{C} + \text{ND} - \text{DR} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{NI} = \text{Net income} \\ &\text{NCE} = \text{Net CapEx} \\ &\text{ND} = \text{New debt} \\ &\text{DR} = \text{Debt repayment} \\ \end{aligned}


​FCFE=NI−NCE−ΔC+ND−DRwhere:NI=Net incomeNCE=Net CapExND=New debtDR=Debt repayment​






The greater the CapEx for a firm, the lower the FCFE.


   Special Considerations  

Aside from analyzing a company's investment in its fixed assets, the CapEx metric is used in several ratios for company analysis. The cash-flow-to-capital-expenditures (CF-to-CapEx) ratio relates to a company's ability to acquire long-term assets using free cash flow. The CF-to-CapEx ratio will often fluctuate as businesses go through cycles of large and small capital expenditures.



A ratio greater than 1 could mean that the company's operations are generating the cash needed to fund its asset acquisitions. On the other hand, a low ratio may indicate that the company is having issues with cash inflows and, hence, its purchase of capital assets. A company with a ratio of less than one may need to borrow money to fund its purchase of capital assets.


   CapEx vs. Operating Expenses (OpEx)  

Capital expenditure should not be confused with operating expenses (OpEx). Operating expenses are shorter-term expenses required to meet the ongoing operational costs of running a business. Unlike capital expenditures, operating expenses can be fully deducted from the company's taxes in the same year in which the expenses occur.



In terms of accounting, an expense is considered to be CapEx when the asset is a newly purchased capital asset or an investment that has a life of more than one year, or which improves the useful life of an existing capital asset. If, however, the expense is one that maintains the asset at its current condition, such as a repair, the cost is typically deducted fully in the year the expense is incurred.


   Examples of CapEx  

As part of its 2021 fiscal year end financial statements, Apple, Inc. reported total assets of $351 billion. Of this, it recorded $39.44 billion of property plant and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation.















Apple Inc, Total Assets (2021).



These balances are dictated by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The rules, treatment, and policies a company must follow when accounting for CapEx usually mirror Apple's treatment below.















Apple, PPE (2021).



Apple's balance sheet aggregates all property, plant, and equipment into a single line. However, more information on property, plant, and equipment is often required to be reported within the notes to the financial statements. In this case, this supplementary information explains that Apple has gross PPE of $109 billion, with almost $79 billion made up of machinery, equipment, and internal-use software.



The notes also explain how the property, plant, and equipment balance is reduced by accumulated depreciation balance. In this example, Apple has utilized $70.3 billion of the $109.7 billion of CapEx. The book value of this category of CapEx is valued at $39.4 billion.















Apple PPE (2021) - Breakdown.


   Example of How to Use CapEx  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how CapEx works. Let's say ABC Company had $7.46 billion in capital expenditures for the fiscal year compared to XYZ Corporation, which purchased PP&E worth $1.25 billion for the same fiscal year. The cash flow from operations for ABC Company and XYZ Corporation for the fiscal year was $14.51 billion and $6.88 billion respectively.



CF-to-CapEx is calculated as follows:


















CF/CapEx


=



Cash Flow from Operations


CapEx

















where:
















CF/CapEx


=


Cash flow to capital expenditure ratio







\begin{aligned} &\text{CF/CapEx} = \frac { \text{Cash Flow from Operations} }{ \text{CapEx} } \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{CF/CapEx} = \text{Cash flow to capital expenditure ratio} \\ \end{aligned}


​CF/CapEx=CapExCash Flow from Operations​where:CF/CapEx=Cash flow to capital expenditure ratio​



Using this formula, ABC's CF-to-CapEx is as follows:




















$


14.51


 Billion




$


7.46


 Billion




=


1.94







\begin{aligned} &\frac { \$14.51\ \text{Billion} }{ \$7.46\ \text{Billion} } = 1.94 \\ \end{aligned}


​$7.46 Billion$14.51 Billion​=1.94​



XYZ's CF-to-CapEx is as follows:




















$


6.88


 Billion




$


1.25


 Billion




=


5.49







\begin{aligned} &\frac { \$6.88\ \text{Billion} }{ \$1.25\ \text{Billion} } = 5.49 \\ \end{aligned}


​$1.25 Billion$6.88 Billion​=5.49​



It is important to note that this is an industry-specific ratio and should only be compared to a ratio derived from another company that has similar CapEx requirements.




What Type of Investment Are CapEx?
CapEx are the investments that companies make to grow or maintain their business operations. Unlike operating expenses, which recur consistently from year to year, capital expenditures are less predictable. For example, a company that buys expensive new equipment would account for that investment as a capital expenditure. Accordingly, it would depreciate the cost of the equipment over the course of its useful life. 




Is CapEx Tax Deductible?
Capital expenditures are not directly tax deductible. However, they can reduce a company’s taxes indirectly by way of the depreciation that they generate. For example, if a company purchases a $1 million piece of equipment that has a useful life of 10 years, it could include $100,000 of depreciation expense each year for 10  years. This depreciation would reduce the company’s pre-tax income by $100,000 per year, thereby reducing their income taxes.




What Is the Difference Between CapEx and OpEx?
The key difference between capital expenditures and operating expenses is that operating expenses recur on a regular and predictable basis, such as in the case of rent, wages, and utility costs. Capital expenses, on the other hand, occur much less frequently and with less regularity. Operating expenses are shown on the income statement and are fully tax-deductible, whereas capital expenditures only reduce taxes through the depreciation that they generate.




What Does CapEx Mean?
CapEx is an abbreviated term for capital expenditures, major purchases that are usually capitalized on a company's balance sheet instead of being expensed.




What Is an Example of CapEx?
When a company acquires a vehicle to add to its fleet, the purchase is often capitalized and treated as CapEx. The cost of the vehicle is depreciated over its useful life, and the acquisition is initially recorded to the company's balance sheet.This is treated differently than OpEx such as the cost to fill up the vehicle's gas tank. The tank of gas has a much shorter useful life to the company, so it is expensed immediately and treated as OpEx.
What Is a Capital Gain?  

The term capital gain refers to the increase in the value of a capital asset when it is sold. Put simply, a capital gain occurs when you sell an asset for more than what you originally paid for it.



Almost any type of asset you own is a capital asset. This can include a type of investment (like a stock, bond, or real estate) or something purchased for personal use (like furniture or a boat).



Capital gains are realized when you sell an asset by subtracting the original purchase price from the sale price. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) taxes individuals on capital gains in certain circumstances.





Key Takeaways

A capital gain is the increase in a capital asset's value and is realized when the asset is sold.Capital gains apply to any type of asset, including investments and those purchased for personal use. The gain may be short-term (one year or less) or long-term (more than one year) and must be claimed on income taxes.Unrealized gains and losses reflect an increase or decrease in an investment's value but are not considered a taxable capital gain.A capital loss is incurred when there is a decrease in the capital asset value compared to an asset's purchase price.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Understanding Capital Gains  

As noted above, capital gains represent the increase in the value of an asset. These gains are typically realized at the time that the asset is sold. Capital gains are generally associated with investments, such as stocks and funds, due to their inherent price volatility. But they can also be realized on any security or possession that is sold for a price higher than the original purchase price, such as a home, furniture, or vehicle.



Capital gains fall into two categories:



Short-term capital gains: Gains realized on assets that you've sold after holding them for one year or less
Long-term capital gains: Gains realized on assets that you've sold after holding them for more than one year



Both short- and long-term gains must be claimed on your annual tax return. Understanding this distinction and factoring it into investment strategy is particularly important for day traders and others who take advantage of the greater ease of trading in the market online.



Realized capital gains occur when an asset is sold, which triggers a taxable event. Unrealized gains, sometimes referred to as paper gains and losses, reflect an increase or decrease in an investment's value but are not considered a capital gain that should be treated as a taxable event. For example, if you own stock that goes up in price, but you haven't yet sold it, that is an unrealized capital gain.



The tax rates for capital gains are listed below.






A capital loss is the opposite of a capital gain. It is incurred when there is a decrease in the capital asset value compared to an asset's purchase price.


   Capital Gains Tax  

Short- and long-term capital gains are taxed differently. Remember, short-term gains occur on assets held for one year or less. As such, these gains are taxed as ordinary income based on the individual's tax filing status and adjusted gross income (AGI).



Long-term capital gains, on the other hand, are taxed at a lower rate than regular income. The exact rate depends on the filer's income and marital status, as shown below:











Long Term Capital Gains Tax Rates for 2022 and 2023


Filing Status
Taxed at 0%
Taxed at 15%
Taxed at 20%




Single
Up to $40,400
$40,401 — $445,850
$445,851 and above


Married filing jointly
Up to $80,800
$80,801 —$501,600
$501,601 and above


Married filing separately 
 Up to $40,400
$40,401—$250,800
 $250,801 and above


Head of Household
Up to $54,400
$54,401—$473,750
$473,751 and above





  Special Capital Gains Tax Rules  

Note that there are some caveats. Certain types of stock or collectibles may be taxed at a higher 28% capital gains rate, and real estate gains can go as high as 25%. Moreover, if the capital gains put your income over the threshold for the 15% capital gains rate, the excess will be taxed at the higher 20% rate.



In addition, certain types of capital losses are not deductible. If you sell your house or car at a loss, you will be unable to deduct the difference on your taxes. However, when you sell your primary home, the first $250,000 is exempt from capital gains tax. That figure doubles to $500,000 for married couples.



Individuals whose incomes are above these thresholds and are in a higher tax bracket are taxed 20% on long-term capital gains. High-net-worth investors may have to pay the additional net investment income tax, on top of the 20% they already pay for capital gains.


   Assets Eligible for Capital Gains  

Not all investments are eligible for the lower capital gains rates. The following are some assets that are and are not eligible.









Eligibility of Certain Assets for Capital Gains Tax Treatment


 Eligible Assets
Not Eligible 




Stocks
Business inventory


Bonds
Depreciable business property


Jewelry
Real estate used by your business or as a rental property


Cryptocurrency (including NFTs)
Copyrights, Patents, and Inventions


Homes and Household furnishings
Literary or Artistic Compositions


Vehicles



Collectibles



Timber



Fine artworks






   Capital Gains and Mutual Funds  

Mutual funds that accumulate realized capital gains throughout the tax year must distribute these gains to shareholders. Many mutual funds distribute capital gains right before the end of the calendar year.



Shareholders receive the fund's capital gains distribution and get a 1099-DIV form outlining the amount of the gain and the type—short- or long-term. When a mutual fund makes a capital gain or dividend distribution, the net asset value (NAV) drops by the amount of the distribution. A capital gains distribution does not impact the fund's total return.



Tax-conscious mutual fund investors should determine a mutual fund's unrealized accumulated capital gains, which are expressed as a percentage of its net assets, before investing in a fund with a significant unrealized capital gain component. This circumstance is referred to as a fund's capital gains exposure. When distributed by a fund, capital gains are a taxable obligation for the fund's investors.


   Example of Capital Gains  

Here's a hypothetical example to show how capital gains work and how they're taxed. Let's say Jeff purchased 100 shares of Amazon (AMZN) stock on Jan. 30, 2016, at $350 per share. He then decides to sell all the shares on Jan. 30, 2018, at a price of $833 each. Assuming there were no fees associated with the sale, Jeff realized a capital gain of $48,300 ($833 x 100 - $350 x 100 = $48,300).



Jeff earns $80,000 per year, which puts him in the enormous income group ($40,001 to $441,500 for individuals and $80,001 to $496,600 for those married filing jointly) that qualifies for long-term capital gains tax rate of 15%.



Jeff should, therefore, pay $7,245 in tax ($48,300 x 0.15 = $7,245) for this transaction.




How Are Capital Gains Taxed?
Capital gains are classified as either short-term or long-term. Short-term capital gains, defined as gains realized in securities held for one year or less, are taxed as ordinary income based on the individual's tax filing status and adjusted gross income. Long-term capital gains, defined as gains realized in securities held for more than one year, are usually taxed at a lower rate than regular income.




What Is the 2023 Capital Gains Tax Rate?
In 2023, long-term capital gains can be taxed at 0%, 15%, 20%, or 25%. The rate at which your gains are taxed will depend on your income, filing status, and the type of asset. Short-term capital gains are taxed at your ordinary income tax rate.




How Do Mutual Funds Account for Capital Gains?
Mutual funds that accumulate realized capital gains must distribute the gains to shareholders and often do so right before the end of the calendar year. Shareholders receive the fund's capital gains distribution along with a 1099-DIV form detailing the amount of the capital gain distribution and how much is considered short-term and long-term. This distribution reduces the mutual fund's net asset value by the amount of the payout though it does not impact the fund's total return.




What Is a Net Capital Gain?
The IRS defines a net capital gain as the amount by which net long-term capital gain (long-term capital gains minus long-term capital losses and any unused capital losses carried over from prior years) exceeds net short-term capital loss (short-term capital gain minus short-term capital loss). A net capital gain may be subject to a lower tax rate than the ordinary income tax rate.




How Do I Avoid Capital Gains Tax on My House?
You can reduce capital gains tax on your home by living in it for more than two years and keeping the receipts for any home improvements you make. The cost of these improvements can be added to the cost basis of your house and reduce the overall gain that will be taxed.


   The Bottom Line  

Capital gains are the profits that are realized by selling an investment, such as stocks, bonds, or real estate. Capital gains taxes are lower than ordinary income taxes, providing an advantage to investors over wage workers. Moreover, capital losses can sometimes be deducted from one's total tax bill.



For these reasons, a thorough understanding of capital gains taxes can make a big difference for an investor.
What Is the Capital Gains Tax?  

The capital gains tax is the levy on the profit that an investor makes when an investment is sold. It is owed for the tax year during which the investment is sold.



The long-term capital gains tax rates for the 2022 and 2023 tax years are 0%, 15%, or 20% of the profit, depending on the income of the filer. The income brackets are adjusted annually. (See tables below.)



An investor will owe long-term capital gains tax on the profits of any investment owned for at least one year. If the investor owns the investment for one year or less, short-term capital gains tax applies. The short-term rate is determined by the taxpayer's ordinary income bracket. For all but the highest-paid taxpayers, that is a higher tax rate than the capital gains rate.





Key Takeaways

Capital gains taxes are due only after an investment is sold.Capital gains taxes apply only to capital assets, which include stocks, bonds, digital assets like cryptocurrencies and NFTs, jewelry, coin collections, and real estate.Long-term gains are levied on profits of investments held for more than a year.Short-term gains are taxed at an individual's regular income tax rate, which is higher than the tax on long-term gains.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding the Capital Gains Tax  

When stock shares or any other taxable investment assets are sold, the capital gains, or profits, are referred to as having been realized. The tax doesn't apply to unsold investments or unrealized capital gains. Stock shares will not incur taxes until they are sold, no matter how long the shares are held or how much they increase in value.



Under current U.S. federal tax policy, the capital gains tax rate applies only to profits from the sale of assets held for more than a year, referred to as long-term capital gains. The current rates are 0%, 15%, or 20%, depending on the taxpayer's tax bracket for that year.



Most taxpayers pay a higher rate on their income than on any long-term capital gains they may have realized. That gives them a financial incentive to hold investments for at least a year, after which the tax on the profit will be lower.



Day traders and others taking advantage of the ease and speed of trading online need to be aware that any profits they make from buying and selling assets held less than a year are not just taxed—they are taxed at a higher rate than assets that are held long-term.



Taxable capital gains for the year can be reduced by the total capital losses incurred in that year. In other words, your tax is due on the net capital gain. There is a $3,000 maximum per year on reported net losses, but leftover losses can be carried forward to the following tax years.






In 2021, President Biden proposed raising long-term capital gains taxes for individuals earning $1 million or more to 39.6%. Added to the existing 3.8% investment surtax on higher-income investors, the tax on those individuals could rise to 43.4%, not counting state taxes.


   Capital Gains Tax Rates for 2022 and 2023  

The profit on an asset that is sold less than a year after it is purchased is generally treated for tax purposes as if it were wages or salary. Such gains are added to your earned income or ordinary income on a tax return.



The same generally applies to dividends paid by an asset, which represent profit although they aren't capital gains. In the U.S., dividends are taxed as ordinary income for taxpayers who are in the 15% and higher tax brackets.



A different system applies, however, for long-term capital gains. The tax you pay on assets held for more than a year and sold at a profit varies according to a rate schedule that is based on the taxpayer's taxable income for that year. The rates are adjusted for inflation each year.



The rates for tax years 2022 and 2023 are shown in the tables below:











2022 Tax Rates for Long-Term Capital Gains




 Filing Status
 0%
 15%
 20%


Single
Up to $41,675
$41,675 to $459,750
Over $459,750


Head of household
Up to $55,800
$55,800 to $488,500
Over $488,500


Married filing jointly and surviving spouse
Up to $83,350
$83,350 to $517,200
Over $517,200


Married filing separately
Up to $41,675
$41,675 to $258,600
Over $258,600



Here's how much you'll pay for profits from taxable assets held for a year or more.











2023 Tax Rates for Long-Term Capital Gains




  Filing Status
  0%
  15%
  20%


  Single
Up to $44,625
$44,626 to $492,300
Over $492,300


  Head of household
Up to $59,750
$59,751 to $523,050
Over $523,050


  Married filing jointly and surviving spouse
Up to $89,250
$89,251 to $553,850
Over $553,850


  Married filing separately
Up to $44,625
$44,626 to $276,900
Over $276,900



Here's how much you'll pay for profits from taxable assets held for a year or more.



The tax rates for long-term capital gains are consistent with the trend to capital gains being taxed at lower rates than individual income, as this table demonstrates.


  Special Capital Gains Rates and Exceptions  

Some categories of assets get different capital-gains tax treatment than the norm.


  Collectibles  

Gains on collectibles, including art, antiques, jewelry, precious metals, and stamp collections, are taxed at a 28% rate regardless of your income. Even if you're in a lower bracket than 28%, you'll be levied at this higher tax rate. If you're in a tax bracket with a higher rate, your capital gains taxes will be limited to the 28% rate.


  Owner-Occupied Real Estate  

A different standard applies to real estate capital gains if you're selling your principal residence. Here's how it works: $250,000 of an individual's capital gains on the sale of a home are excluded from taxable income ($500,000 for those married filing jointly).



This applies so long as the seller has owned and lived in the home for two years or more.



However, unlike with some other investments, capital losses from the sale of personal property, such as a home, are not deductible from gains.



Here's how it can work. A single taxpayer who purchased a house for $200,000 and later sells his house for $500,000 had made a $300,000 profit on the sale. After applying the $250,000 exemption, this person must report a capital gain of $50,000, which is the amount subject to the capital gains tax.



In most cases, the costs of significant repairs and improvements to the home can be added to its cost, thus reducing the amount of taxable capital gain.


  Investment Real Estate  

Investors who own real estate are often allowed to take depreciation deductions against income to reflect the steady deterioration of the property as it ages. This is a decline in the home's physical condition and is unrelated to its changing value in the real estate market.



The deduction for depreciation essentially reduces the amount you're considered to have paid for the property in the first place. That in turn can increase your taxable capital gain if you sell the property. That's because the gap between the property's value after deductions and its sale price will be greater.



For example, if you paid $100,000 for a building and you're allowed to claim $5,000 in depreciation, you'll be taxed as if you'd paid $95,000 for the building. The $5,000 is then treated in a sale of the real estate as recapturing those depreciation deductions.



The tax rate that applies to the recaptured amount is 25%. So if the person then sold the building for $110,000, there would be total capital gains of $15,000. Then, $5,000 of the sale figure would be treated as a recapture of the deduction from income. That recaptured amount is taxed at 25%. The remaining $10,000 of capital gain would be taxed at 0%, 15%, or 20%, depending on the investor's income.


  Investment Exceptions  

If you have a high income, you may be subject to another levy, the net investment income tax.



This tax imposes an additional 3.8% of taxation on your investment income, including your capital gains, if your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI)—not your taxable income—exceeds certain maximums.



Those threshold amounts are $250,000 if married and filing jointly or a surviving spouse; $200,000 if you’re single or a head of household, and $125,000 if married, filing separately.


   Calculating Your Capital Gains  

Capital losses can be deducted from capital gains to calculate your taxable gains for the year.



The calculation becomes a little more complex if you've incurred capital gains and capital losses on both short-term and long-term investments.



First, sort short-term gains and losses in a separate pile from long-term gains and losses. All short-term gains must be reconciled to yield a total short-term gain. Then the short-term losses are totaled. Finally, long-term gains and losses are tallied.



The short-term gains are netted against the short-term losses to produce a net short-term gain or loss. The same is done with the long-term gains and losses.





Capital Gains Calculator

Most individuals figure their tax (or have a pro do it for them) using software that automatically makes the computations. But you can use a capital gains calculator to get a rough idea of what you may pay on a potential or actualized sale.


   How to Avoid Capital Gains Taxes  

If you want to invest money and make a profit, you will owe capital gains taxes on that profit. There are, however, a number of perfectly legal ways to minimize your capital gains taxes:



Hang onto your investment for more than one year. Otherwise, the profit is treated as regular income and you'll probably pay more.Don't forget that your investment losses can be deducted from your investment profits. The amount of the excess loss that you can claim to lower your income is $3,000 a year. Some investors use that fact to good effect. For example, they'll sell a loser at the end of the year in order to have losses to offset their gains for the year. If your losses are greater than $3,000, you can carry the losses forward and deduct them from your capital gains in future years.Keep track of any qualifying expenses that you incur in making or maintaining your investment. They will increase the cost basis of the investment and thus reduce its taxable profit.Be mindful of tax-advantaged accounts. For example, by holding securities in a 401(k) or IRA may limit the liquidity you have in your investment and options in which you can withdraw funds. However, you may have greater capabilities in buying and selling securities without incurring taxes on gains. Seek out exclusions. For example, if you want to sell your house, ensure you understand rules that allow you to exclude a portion of gains from the house sale. You should be mindful to intentionally meet criteria if you can to plan the timing of the sale and ensure you meet exclusion requirements.


   Capital Gains Tax Strategies  

The capital gains tax effectively reduces the overall return generated by the investment. But there is a legitimate way for some investors to reduce or even eliminate their net capital gains taxes for the year.



The simplest of strategies is to simply hold assets for more than a year before selling them. That's wise because the tax you will pay on long-term capital gains is generally lower than it would be for short-term gains.


  1. Use Your Capital Losses  

Capital losses will offset capital gains and effectively lower capital gains tax for the year. But what if the losses are greater than the gains?



Two options are open. If losses exceed gains by up to $3,000, you may claim that amount against your income. The loss rolls over, so any excess loss not used in the current year can be deducted from income to reduce your tax liability in future years.



For example, say an investor realizes a profit of $5,000 from the sale of some stocks but incurs a loss of $20,000 from selling others. The capital loss can be used to cancel out tax liability for the $5,000 gain. The remaining capital loss of $15,000 can then be used to offset income, and thus the tax on those earnings.



So, if an investor whose annual income is $50,000 can, in the first year, report $50,000 minus a maximum annual claim of $3,000. That makes a total of $47,000 in taxable income.



The investor still has $12,000 of capital losses and can deduct the $3,000 maximum every year for the next four years.


  2. Don't Break the Wash-Sale Rule  

Be mindful of selling stock shares at a loss to get a tax advantage and then turning around and buying the same investment again. If you do that in 30 days or less, you will run afoul of the IRS wash-sale rule against this sequence of transactions.



Material capital gains of any kind are reported on a Schedule D form.






Capital losses can be rolled forward to subsequent years to reduce any income in the future and lower the taxpayer's tax burden.


  3. Use Tax-Advantaged Retirement Plans  

Among the many reasons to participate in a retirement plan like a 401(k)s or IRA is that your investments grow from year to year without being subject to capital gains tax. In other words, within a retirement plan, you can buy and sell without losing a cut to Uncle Sam every year.



Most plans do not require participants to pay tax on the funds until they are withdrawn from the plan. That said, withdrawals are taxed as ordinary income regardless of the underlying investment.



The exception to this rule is the Roth IRA or Roth 401(k), for which income taxes are collected as the money is paid into the account, making qualified withdrawals tax-free.


  4. Cash in After Retiring   

As you approach retirement, consider waiting until you actually stop working to sell profitable assets. The capital gains tax bill might be reduced if your retirement income is lower. You may even be able to avoid having to pay capital gains tax at all.



In short, be mindful of the impact of taking the tax hit when working rather than after you're retired. Realizing the gain earlier might serve to bump you out of a low- or no-pay bracket and cause you to incur a tax bill on the gains.


  5. Watch Your Holding Periods  

Remember that an asset must be sold more than a year to the day after it was purchased in order for the sale to qualify for treatment as a long-term capital gain. If you are selling a security that was bought about a year ago, be sure to check the actual trade date of the purchase before you sell. You might be able to avoid its treatment as a short-term capital gain by waiting for only a few days.



These timing maneuvers matter more with large trades than small ones, of course. The same applies if you are in a higher tax bracket rather than a lower one.


  6. Pick Your Basis   

Most investors use the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method to calculate the cost basis when acquiring and selling shares in the same company or mutual fund at different times.



However, there are four other methods to choose from: last in, first out (LIFO), dollar value LIFO, average cost (only for mutual fund shares), and specific share identification.



The best choice will depend on several factors, such as the basis price of shares or units that were purchased and the amount of gain that will be declared. You may need to consult a tax advisor for complex cases.



Computing your cost basis can be a tricky proposition. If you use an online broker, your statements will be on its website. In any case, be sure you have accurate records in some form.



Finding out when a security was purchased and at what price can be a nightmare if you have lost the original confirmation statement or other records from that time. This is especially troublesome if you need to determine exactly how much was gained or lost when selling a stock, so be sure to keep track of your statements. You'll need those dates for the Schedule D form.


   Examples of Capital Gains Taxes  

Consider Larry, a taxpayer, who purchased 100 shares of ABC stock for $1,000 on January 1st, 2023. He sold all the shares for $1,500 on April 1st, 2023. Since the holding period was less than one year, Larry's capital gain is considered short-term. He would be subject to his ordinary income tax rate on the $500 gain.



In a separate example, consider Jane. Jane bought a piece of land for $50,000 on January 1st, 2020. She held the land for more than one year and sold it for $80,000 on June 1st, 2023. Sarah's capital gain is considered long-term as she met the minimum holding period requirement. She would be subject to the long-term capital gain tax rate on the $30,000 gain.



Last, think about Amy. Amy invested $10,000 in stocks within her IRA. Over time, the value of the stocks increased to $20,000. She decides to sell the stocks within her IRA and withdraw the funds for her retirement. Since the sale occurred within the IRA, Emily avoids capital gains taxes altogether, allowing her to enjoy the full $20,000 without any tax liability on the gains. Note that the holding period in this last example does not matter. Whether Amy sold the securities after 10 days or 10 years, there would be no capital gains taxes because of the IRA.




When Do You Owe Capital Gains Taxes?
You owe the tax on capital gains for the year in which you realize the gain. For example, if you sell some stock shares anytime during 2022 and make a total profit of $140, you must report that $140 as a capital gain on your tax return for 2022.Capital gains taxes are owed on the profits from the sale of most investments if they are held for at least one year. The taxes are reported on a Schedule D form.The capital gains tax rate is 0%, 15%, or 20%, depending on your taxable income for the year. High earners pay more. The income levels are adjusted annually for inflation. (See the tables above for the capital gains tax rates for the 2022 and 2023 tax years.)If the investments are held for less than one year, the profits are considered short-term gains and are taxed as ordinary income. For most people, that's a higher rate.




Do I Have to Pay Capital Gains Taxes Immediately?
In most cases, you must pay the capital gains tax after you sell an asset. It may become fully due in the subsequent year tax return. For example, selling a security in 2021 that is subject to capital gains taxes may result in taxes due for your annual tax return filing for 2021 that is due in the spring of 2022.Note that in some cases, the IRS may require quarterly estimated tax payments. Though the actual tax may not be due for a while, you may incur penalties for having a large payment due without having made any installment payments towards.




What Is Good About Reducing the Capital Gains Tax Rate?
Proponents of a low rate on capital gains argue that it is a great incentive to save money and invest it in stocks and bonds. That increased investment fuels growth in the economy. Businesses have the money to expand and innovate, creating more jobs.They also point out that investors are using after-tax income to buy those assets. The money they use to buy stocks or bonds has already been taxed as ordinary income, and adding a capital gains tax is double taxation.




What Is Bad About Reducing the Capital Gains Tax Rate?
Opponents of a low rate on capital gains question the fairness of a lower tax on passive income than on earned income. Low taxes on stock gains shifts the tax burden onto working people.They also argue that a lower capital gains tax primarily benefits the tax-sheltering industry. That is, instead of using their money to innovate, businesses park it in low-tax assets.


   The Bottom Line  

Taxes known as capital gains are levied on earnings made from the sale of assets like stocks or real estate. Based on the holding term and the taxpayer's income level, the tax is computed using the difference between the asset's sale price and its acquisition price, and it is subject to different rates.
What Are Capital Goods?  

Capital goods are tangible assets such as buildings, machinery, and equipment used to produce consumer goods or services.  Capital goods are durable items and differ from consumer goods and services, which are the end product of production and manufacturing. 





Key Takeaways

Capital goods are physical assets a company uses to produce goods and services for consumers.Capital goods include fixed assets, such as buildings, machinery, equipment, vehicles, and tools.Capital goods differ from consumer goods, which are the end product of production and manufacturing. 












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   Types of Capital Goods  

Capital goods are the tangible assets used to produce products to create finished products. However, capital goods are not limited to common fixed assets such as machinery and manufacturing equipment.



The industrial electronics industry produces devices, which are capital goods that range from small wire harness assemblies to air-purifying respirators and high-resolution digital imaging systems.



Capital goods are also produced for service businesses. Hair clippers used by hairstylists, paint brushes used by painters, and musical instruments played by musicians, are among the many capital goods purchased by service providers.






Capital goods, also known as "plant, property, and equipment," are treated as fixed assets in accounting.


   Capital Goods vs. Consumer Goods  

Consumer goods are the finished products that consumers buy after the production process. Although consumer goods have different classifications, examples of consumer goods include milk, appliances, and clothes.



Capital goods are not commonly sold to consumers but are used to produce other goods, which are sold to consumers. However, some capital goods can be considered consumer goods, such as airplanes, used by airlines and some consumers.


   Examples of Capital Goods  

Factories or assembly line equipment used to manufacture cars and trucksMachines and technology used to produce goods and servicesTypes of infrastructure, such as trains and cable or broadband linesCoffee machines used by a coffee shopAutomobiles used by a delivery company Ovens used by a restaurant Landscaping equipment for business 




What Are Considered Core Capital Goods?
Core capital goods are a class of capital goods that excludes aircraft and goods produced for the Defense Department, such as automatic rifles and military uniforms. The Census Bureau’s monthly Advance Report on Durable Goods Orders includes data on purchases of core capital goods, also known as Core CAPEX, for capital expenditure.




How Does Depreciation of a Capital Good Affect a Company?
Capital goods that a business does not consume within a single year of production cannot be entirely deducted as business expenses in the year of their purchase. Instead, they must be depreciated throughout their useful lives, with the business taking partial tax deductions spread over the years that the capital goods are in use. This is done through accounting techniques such as depreciation. Depreciation accounts for the annual loss of the tangible asset’s value during its useful life.




Why Do Businesses Invest in Capital Goods?
When businesses invest in capital goods, companies expand and produce additional products or services.


   The Bottom Line  

Capital goods are physical assets that a company uses to manufacture products and services for consumers. In accounting, capital goods are categorized as fixed assets, such as "plant, property, and equipment." Capital goods differ from consumer goods, which are the result of production and manufacturing.
What Is a Capital Improvement?  

A capital improvement is the addition of a permanent structural change or the restoration of some aspect of a property that will either enhance the property's overall value, prolong its useful life, or adapt it to new uses.



Individuals, businesses, and cities can make capital improvements to the property they own. Some capital improvements are given favorable tax treatment and may be exempted from sales tax in certain jurisdictions.



In a business or corporate finance, this process is similar to investments in capital expenditures (CAPEX).





Key Takeaways

A capital improvement is a durable upgrade, adaptation, or enhancement of a property that increases its value, often involving a structural change or restoration.The IRS grants special tax treatment to qualified capital improvements, distinguishing them from ordinary repairs.In addition to enhancing a home, capital improvements can increase the cost basis of a property, which in turn reduces the tax burden when it is sold.In some states, capital improvements can allow landlords to increase rent more than what the law would otherwise allow.


   How a Capital Improvement Works  

Capital improvements typically increase the market value of a property but may also expand the usefulness of the asset beyond its current state.



According to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), a capital improvement must endure for more than one year upon its completion and be durable or permanent in nature. Although the scale of a capital improvement can vary, both individual homeowners and large-scale property owners make capital improvements.



IRS Publication 523 outlines the official definition of a capital improvement. Examples of residential capital improvements include adding or renovating a bedroom, bathroom, or deck. Other IRS-approved projects include adding new built-in appliances, wall-to-wall carpeting or flooring, or improvements to a home's exterior, such as replacing the roof, siding, or storm windows. Installing a fixed swimming pool or driveway may also be qualified capital improvements.



The IRS distinguishes between a capital improvement and a repair or replacement due to normal wear and tear. For example, if your refrigerator breaks after several years of service, or you have leaky pipes, those repairs are not capital improvements.



However, if a person adds solar panels and a tool shed to their property, both of which are affixed permanently to the property, they would be considered capital improvements to the home. An example of a business-based capital improvement would be installing a new HVAC system or putting in Americans with Disability Act (ADA) accessible features to an existing building.



Similarly, the creation of a new public park in a downtown area would also be considered a capital improvement for a city. In these scenarios, the new additions would make the respective properties more valuable, would be considered permanent additions, and their removal would cause material harm to the property.






Most repairs do not count as capital improvements.


   Special Considerations  

There are several expenses to keep in mind when considering a capital improvement program. For example:


  Cost Basis  

The cost basis is the original cost of an asset. The IRS sets specific standards for an improvement to qualify as a cost-basis increase. A primary concern is it must be in place at the time a property is sold. A capital improvement must also become part of the property, or be affixed so permanently to the property that its removal would cause significant damage or decrease in the value of the property itself.



Repairs or maintenance cannot be included in a property's cost basis. However, repairs that are part of a larger project, such as replacing all of a home's windows, do qualify as capital improvements. Renovations that are necessary to keep a home in good condition are not included if they do not add value to the asset. Examples of such non-qualifying repairs, according to the IRS, include painting walls, fixing leaks, or replacing broken hardware.






Capital improvements can help reduce one's capital gains taxes when selling a home or building.


  Capital Gains  

In addition to improving the home, a capital improvement—per the IRS—increases the cost basis of a structure. That is, expenses incurred upon making the improvements are added to the amount the owner paid to buy or build the property. Augmenting the cost basis, in turn, reduces the size of the taxable capital gain when selling the property.



Capital gains from real estate behave differently than do other types of capital gains. As of 2022, homeowners are entitled to a capital gains exemption on any profit from the sale of a primary residence up to $250,000 if single and $500,000 if married and filing jointly. This exemption has one important caveat. The homeowner must have had a residency at the property for at least two of the last five years before the sale.



Also, if the gain is significantly more than those sums listed above, the tax effects of a capital improvement can be significant. Many factors may make a taxpayer breach the $250,000/500,000 capital gains levels. These include if the owners acquired the property many decades ago and if local real estate values had dramatically increased since the purchase.


  Local Exemptions  

New York State's rent laws include a provision called the Major Capital Improvements (MCI) program. Dating from the 1970s, it allows landlords to raise rent-stabilized or -controlled building rents by up to 6% annually, to recoup the cost of major capital improvements to those structures. An HVAC system upgrade, new elevators, updated common spaces, and other improvements all count toward the MCI.



In February 2019, two State Legislators introduced a bill to eliminate the program, charging it is too easy for building owners to abuse the program. Abuse comes when these unscrupulous landlords submit inflated or fabricated claims of expenses. Potential for fraud aside, the MCI program is inherently unfair, claim some critics. These critics argue that a capital improvement is a one-time cost for a landlord, but a rent increase is an ongoing expense for a tenant.


   Examples of Capital Improvements  

Imagine a person who purchases a home for $650,000 and spends $50,000 to renovate the kitchen and add a bathroom. In many cases, sales tax will not have to be paid to the contractors for this job as it is a qualified capital improvement.



The cost basis of the home also increases from $650,000 to $700,000. After 10 years of owning and living in the home, the homeowner, who is single and files taxes as such, ends up selling the property for a price of $975,000. 



If no capital improvements had been made, the taxable amount for the capital gain would normally be $75,000 ($975,000 sale price - $650,000 purchase price - $250,000 capital gains exclusion). Because the capital improvement increased the cost basis by $50,000, the taxable amount for the capital gain would be just $25,000 ($975,000 - ($650,000 + $50,000) - $250,000 = $25,000).




What Is a Capital Improvement Fee?
A capital improvement fee is a one-time fee charged by a Homeowner's Association whenever a property in the HOA is sold. This fee is usually used to pay for future capital improvements in the community. The size of the fee varies, but it is usually around one year of HOA fees.




What Is a Capital Improvement Plan?
A capital improvement plan is a community or municipal project that sets out the funding and planning for capital improvements over several years. A capital improvement plan will list major, non-recurring expenses tied to buildings, land, or other infrastructure, along with the deadlines for their completion and the community's plans for financing.




What Is a Certificate of Capital Improvement?
A certificate of capital improvement is a document that certifies that a certain project is considered a capital improvement. A certificate of capital improvement is given by the owner to the construction manager or contractor to indicate that no sales tax is due.
What Is Capital Investment?  

Capital investment is the acquisition of physical assets by a company for use in furthering its long-term business goals and objectives. Real estate, manufacturing plants, and machinery are among the assets that are purchased as capital investments.



The capital used may come from a wide range of sources from traditional bank loans to venture capital deals.





Key Takeaways

Capital investment is the expenditure of money to fund a company's long-term growth.The term often refers to a company's acquisition of permanent fixed assets such as real estate and equipment.Capital assets are reported as non-current assets and most are depreciated.The funds for capital investment can come from a number of sources, including cash on hand, though big projects are most often financed through obtaining loans or issuing stock.Examples of capital investments are land, buildings, machinery, equipment, or software.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   How Capital Investment Works  

Capital investment is a broad term that can be defined in two distinct ways:



An individual, a venture capital group or a financial institution may make a capital investment in a business. The money can be provided as a loan or a share of the profits down the road. In this sense of the word, capital means cash.
The executives of a company may make a capital investment in the business. They buy long-term assets such as equipment that will help the company run more efficiently or grow faster. In this sense, capital means physical assets.



In either case, the money for capital investment must come from somewhere. A new company might seek capital investment from any number of sources, including venture capital firms, angel investors, or traditional financial institutions. When a new company goes public, it is acquiring capital investment on a large scale from many investors.



An established company might make a capital investment using its own cash reserves or seek a loan from a bank. It might issue bonds or stock shares in order to finance capital investment. There is no minimum or maximum capital investment. It can range from less than $100,000 in seed financing for a start-up to hundreds of millions of dollars for massive projects undertaken by companies in capital-intensive sectors such as mining, utilities, and infrastructure.






Capital investment is meant to benefit a company in the long run, but it nonetheless can have short-term downsides.






   Capital Investments for Business  

A decision by a business to make a capital investment is a long-term growth strategy. A company plans and implements capital investments in order to ensure future growth. Capital investments generally are made to increase operational capacity, capture a larger share of the market, and generate more revenue. The company may make a capital investment in the form of an equity stake in another company's complementary operations for the same purposes.



In many cases, capital investments are a necessary and normal part of an industry. Consider an oil-drilling company that relies on heavy machinery to extract raw materials to be processed. As opposed to a law firm that will have low-to-no capital investment requirements, capital-intensive businesses usually need specific assets in order to operate.



In addition, there are strategic components for a business to consider when deciding whether or not to invest in a capital asset. For instance, consider how certain heavy machinery such as a company vehicle could be leased. Should the company be willing to incur debt and tie up capital, the company may spend less money in the long-term by incurring a capital investment as opposed to a periodic "rental" expense.


   Types of Capital Investments  

Companies often acquire capital investments for diversification, modernization, or business expansion. This may mean buying capital investments different from existing aspects of its business or capital investments that simply do things better than before. Some specific types of capital investments include:



Land: Companies may buy bare land to be used for development or expansion.
Buildings: Companies may buy existing buildings for manufacturing, storage, production, or headquarter operations. 
Assets Under Development: Companies may incur spending over time to assemble assets that may be capitalized. For example, a company can build its own building; the accumulation of charges may be considered a capital investment.
Furniture and Fixtures: Though furniture and fixtures may be more temporary in nature, certain aspects of accounting rules result in some overlap between FFE and capital investments. 
Machines: Companies that invest in the production elements of making goods are making capital investments. 
Software Development or Computing Devices: Companies more frequently invest capital to build software; these costs now commonly qualify for capitalization and amortization over time. 






Because land does not deteriorate in a similar manner compared to other capital investments, it is not depreciated.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Capital Investments  
  Pros of Capital Investments  

The advantages of capital investments can vary depending on the specific situation. However, most companies embark on capital investments for productivity.  By investing in new equipment or technology, companies can improve their efficiency, thus lower costs and increasing output. These types of investments may also improve the quality of goods produced.



Capital investments can also lead to cost savings over time. For example, a new piece of equipment may be more energy-efficient than an older model, which can result in lower utility bills. Similarly, new technology may streamline processes and reduce the need for manual labor. Last, companies may decide the long-term discounted cash flow is favorable when comparing the upfront investment of a capital investment compared to the long-term, ongoing cash outlay of a recurring expense.



By investing in their long-term assets, companies can also gain a competitive advantage in the market. This can make it more difficult for competitors to catch up and can help the company to maintain its market position over the long term. If a company is willing to take a risk and incur a large investment to strengthen its business, this may create a barrier to entry that competitors can not overcome or compete against.


  Cons of Capital Investment  

The preferred option for capital investment is always a company's own operating cash flow, but that may not be sufficient to cover the anticipated costs. It is more likely the company will resort to outside financing. Therefore, there is usually a little more risk to capital investments. This is especially true for capital investments that are customized or hard to liquidate; once the company has bought the capital investment, it may be hard to exit the investment.



Capital investment is meant to benefit a company in the long run, but it nonetheless can have short-term downsides. Capital investments tends to reduce earnings growth in the short term, and that never pleases stockholders of a public company. This may be especially true for capital investments that also incur operating costs (i.e. the acquisition of land will be accompanied by a potentially hefty annual property tax assessment).



In addition, if a company does not have sufficient capital on hand to make a large investment, there are downsides to each of its financing options. Issuing additional stock shares, which is often the funding option for public companies, dilutes the value of its outstanding shares. Existing shareholders generally dislike finding that their stake in the company has been reduced. Alternatively, the total amount of debt a company has on the books is closely watched by stockholders and analysts. The payments on that debt can stifle the company's further growth.





Pros

May increase productivity if capital investment is more efficient than prior methods
May result in higher quality manufactured goods
May be cheaper in the long-run when compared against rented or monthly expensed solutions
May create a barrier to entry that yields a competitive advantage



Cons

May be too expensive for the company to outright purchase on their own.
May limit or restrict short-term profitability of the company
May be accompanied by additional operating expenses
May reduce the liquidity of the company should it be difficult to sell the capital asset





   Accounting for Capital Investments  

Accounting practices for capital investments involve recording the cost of the asset, allocating the cost over its useful life, and carrying the investment as the difference between cost and accumulated depreciation. The accounting treatment can vary depending on the type of asset, as land is not depreciated but many other capital investments are depreciated.



The cost of the asset should be recorded in the company's accounting records. This can include the purchase price of the asset as well as any additional costs related to the purchase such as installation or transportation costs. Companies may record the fair market value for certain capital investments under certain circumstances, but capital investments must initially be recorded at cost.



If the asset has a cost that meets the company's capitalization policy, the cost of the asset will be recorded as a capital asset on the balance sheet. This allows the company to spread the cost of the asset over its useful life and to recognize the expense over time. This is the primary difference between the assets mentioned earlier and normal operating costs, as operating costs are expensed in the period they are incurred while capital investment costs are spread over time.



The useful life of a capital investment is an estimate of the number of years that the asset will be used by the company. The depreciation method used will depend on the asset and the company's accounting policies, but commonly used methods include straight-line, declining balance, and sum-of-the-years'-digits. Companies may also record impairments to reduce the value of a capital investment should a loss be incurred. In addition, whereas operating expenses may simply be stopped, companies have a series of entries to post when a capital investment is disposed of.


   Example of Capital Investment  

As part of its year-end financial statements, Amazon.com reported the following assets it owned for fiscal year 2021 and 2022.















Amazon, Balance Sheet.



This format of the balance sheet is standard where assets are reported by liquidity starting with the most liquid assets. Because capital investments are not liquid, they are often reported lower in the list.



At year-end 2022, Amazon reported a net asset balance of $186.7 billion for property and equipment. This figure is net because capital investments, aside from land, are often depreciated and reported as their cost less any accumulated depreciation. Note that this $186.7 billion is also being excluded from current assets. Because of the long-term nature of capital investments, they are reported as noncurrent assets.




What Is an Example of a Capital Investment?
When a company buys land, that is often a capital investment. Because of the long-term nature of buying land and the illiquidity of the asset, a company usually needs to raise a lot of capital to buy the asset.




How Does a Capital Investment Work?
A capital investment works based on the benefits a company may receive over a long period of time compared to the short-term investment. In theory, a company will pay a large sum of money upfront (or over time). Then, the company will receive a benefit from the asset (potentially even after it has finished paying for it). The idea is a capital investment should provide better long-term value compared to a good or service that is being purchased and used in a single accounting period.




What Is the Largest Downside to a Capital Investment?
Companies must often make a long-term financial or legal commitment when buying capital investments. This means tying up cash, getting rid of flexibility, and taking a risk that may not pan out. Whereas a company can be more nimble by paying for something smaller, a company aims to leverage a single investment to scale growth or innovate. That growth or innovation may not materialize.


   The Bottom Line  

Companies may decide to make capital investments as a way to innovate, modernize, and capture a competitive advantage over its competitors. This investment often requires a large sum of money, and the company often receives an illiquid asset such as land, buildings, machinery, or equipment. The accounting treatment for capital investments if often different than operating outlays as capital investments are usually depreciated.
What Is S&P Capital IQ?  

S&P Capital IQ is the research division of S&P Global, one of the world's largest providers of ratings, data, research, and the S&P Dow Jones Indices. S&P Capital IQ provides detailed research and analysis of the stock market to a variety of investing stakeholders.





Key Takeaways

S&P Capital IQ is the research arm of S&P Global, the provider of research, ratings, and market indices.The company was first bought by McGraw-Hill Financial in 2004 when it was called Capital IQ. McGraw-Hill has since been rebranded as S&P Global and Capital IQ is now known as S&P Capital IQ.S&P Capital IQ analyzes more than 135 billion data points from an assortment of sources to provide actionable intelligence to subscribers.


   Understanding Capital IQ  

Founded in 1999, Capital IQ started as a provider of software and analytics related to the markets. It was sold to publisher McGraw-Hill Financial in 2004 for more than $200 million. McGraw-Hill Financial was rebranded as S&P Global in 2016, and Capital IQ was rebranded as S&P Capital IQ.



Standard & Poor’s was established in 1941 and has grown to become the world’s leading index provider and independent credit rating source. Since having been acquired by Standard & Poor’s in 2004, the company has expanded to become a global presence, with operations in more than 20 countries overseen from its headquarters in New York City. It has made a number of significant acquisitions for growth and expansion. These include the acquisition of Heale Financial in 2006 for $13 million and ClariFI, Inc. for $87 million in 2007.


   How S&P Capital IQ Works  

S&P Capital IQ’s web portal offers various software and data feeds to advisory firms, banks, corporations, investment managers, private equity funds, universities, and more, providing overall market awareness and investment analysis audiences can use to inform their investment strategies.



Every year, S&P Capital IQ collects and analyzes more than 135 billion data points in order to serve as the leading provider of financial services research. The data S&P Capital IQ collects and reports to its users includes company profiles, executive summaries, financial information, and independent analyst reports.


   Understanding S&P Capital IQ  

S&P Capital IQ investigates financial news, market insights, company performance data, and sector-specific data. The firm provides subscribers with intelligence on more than 62,000 public companies and 4.4 million private firms. According to the company's website, it covers financials for 88,000 publicly-listed companies or 99% of global market capitalization.



Additionally, S&P Capital IQ researches and analyzes more complex investment structures, including mutual funds and hedge funds, providing investors with up-to-date performance comparisons, insights, and fund strategies.



Capital IQ's widespread approach to market analysis provides information that can be valuable to investors of all types, ranging from large institutional traders to smaller, individual investors, and financial hobbyists.


   Capital IQ Products and Services  

The web portal for Capital IQ’s products offers many powerful tools for institutional and individual investors alike. These tools give users the ability to gain broad market understanding through the use of its various features, including market snapshots, industry and sub-industry reviews, surveys, and general economic insights.



Major products of the Capital IQ platform include Compustat, Xpressfeed, and Money Market Directories (MMD). Together, this suite of tools provides users access to desktop research, screening, real-time market data, backtesting, portfolio management, financial modeling, and quantitative analysis through web-based and Excel-based applications.



Compustat, one of Standard & Poor's flagship services, has provided financial and statistical market data since 1962, and the Xpressfeed service is a formatting and delivery method of the Compustat database that permits users the ability to access and interpret real-time market data using their own tools. Money Market Directories are a powerful prospecting tool, offering comprehensive, global insights into foundations, endowments, and similar funding sources.
What Is Capital Lease?  

A capital lease is a contract entitling a renter to the temporary use of an asset and has the economic characteristics of asset ownership for accounting purposes.





Key Takeaways

A capital lease is a contract entitling a renter to the temporary use of an asset A capital lease is considered a purchase of an asset, while an operating lease is handled as a true lease under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).Under a capital lease, the leased asset is treated for accounting purposes as if it were actually owned by the lessee and is recorded on the balance sheet as such.An operating lease does not grant any ownership-like rights to the leased asset, and is treated differently in accounting terms.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Capital Lease  

The capital lease requires a renter to book assets and liabilities associated with the lease if the rental contract meets specific requirements. In essence, a capital lease is considered a purchase of an asset, while an operating lease is handled as a true lease under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). A capital lease may be contrasted with an operating lease.



Even though a capital lease is technically a sort of rental agreement, GAAP accounting standards view it as a purchase of assets if certain criteria are met. Capital leases can have an impact on companies' financial statements, influencing interest expense, depreciation expense, assets, and liabilities.



To qualify as a capital lease, a lease contract must satisfy any of the following four criteria:



the life of the lease must be 75% or greater for the asset's useful life. 
the lease must contain a bargain purchase option for a price less than the market value of an asset. 
the lessee must gain ownership at the end of the lease period. 
the present value of lease payments must be greater than 90% of the asset's market value.



In 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) made an amendment to its accounting rules requiring companies to capitalize all leases with contract terms above one year on their financial statements. The amendment became effective on December 15, 2018, for public companies and December 15, 2019, for private companies.






Accounting treatments for operating and capital leases are different and can have a significant impact on businesses' taxes.


   Capital Leases Vs. Operating Leases  

An operating lease is different in structure and accounting treatment from a capital lease. An operating lease is a contract that allows for the use of an asset but does not convey any ownership rights of the asset.



Operating leases used to be counted as off-balance sheet financing—meaning that a leased asset and associated liabilities of future rent payments were not included on a company's balance sheet in order to keep the debt to equity ratio low. Historically, operating leases enabled American firms to keep billions of dollars of assets and liabilities from being recorded on their balance sheets.



However, the practice of keeping operating leases off the balance sheet was changed when Accounting Standards Update 2016-02 ASU 842 came into effect. Starting Dec. 15, 2018, for public companies and Dec. 15, 2019, for private companies, right-of-use assets and liabilities resulting from leases are recorded on balance sheets.



To be classified as an operating lease, the lease must meet certain requirements under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) that exempt it from being recorded as a capital lease. Companies must test for the four criteria, also known as the “bright line” tests, listed above that determine whether rental contracts must be booked as operating or capital leases. If none of these conditions are met, the lease can be classified as an operating lease, otherwise, it is likely to be a capital lease.



The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may reclassify an operating lease as a capital lease to reject the lease payments as a deduction, thus increasing the company's taxable income and tax liability.


   Accounting for Capital Leases  

A capital lease is an example of accrual accounting's inclusion of economic events, which requires a company to calculate the present value of an obligation on its financial statements. For instance, if a company estimated the present value of its obligation under a capital lease to be $100,000, it then records a $100,000 debit entry to the corresponding fixed asset account and a $100,000 credit entry to the capital lease liability account on its balance sheet.



Because a capital lease is a financing arrangement, a company must break down its periodic lease payments into an interest expense based on the company's applicable interest rate and depreciation expense. If a company makes $1,000 in monthly lease payments and its estimated interest is $200, this produces a $1,000 credit entry to the cash account, a $200 debit entry to the interest expense account, and an $800 debit entry to the capital lease liability account.



A company must also depreciate the leased asset that factors in its salvage value and useful life. For example, if the above-mentioned asset has a 10-year useful life and no salvage value based on the straight-line basis depreciation method, the company records an $833 monthly debit entry to the depreciation expense account and a credit entry to the accumulated depreciation account. When the leased asset is disposed of, the fixed asset is credited and the accumulated depreciation account is debited for the remaining balances.
What Is a Capital Loss Carryover?  

Capital loss carryover is the net amount of capital losses eligible to be carried forward into future tax years. Net capital losses (the amount that total capital losses exceed total capital gains) can only be deducted up to a maximum of $3,000 in a tax year. Net capital losses exceeding the $3,000 threshold may be carried forward to future tax years until exhausted. There is no limit to the number of years there might be a capital loss carryover.





Key Takeaways

Capital losses that exceed capital gains in a year may be used to offset ordinary taxable income up to $3,000 in any one tax year.Net capital losses in excess of $3,000 can be carried forward indefinitely until the amount is exhausted.Due to the wash-sale IRS rule, investors need to be careful not to repurchase any stock sold for a loss within 30 days, or the capital loss does not qualify for the beneficial tax treatment.Capital loss carryovers allow taxpayers greater flexibility when benefiting from losses, though carryover losses can only be used against capital gains and can't be offset against ordinary income.Capital losses are reported on Schedule D; the instructions to this tax form has a capital loss carryover as well. 


   Understanding Capital Loss Carryover  

Capital loss carryovers allow a taxpayer to capture losses from one period to be used in a future period income tax filing. Capital loss tax provisions lessen the severity of the impact caused by investment losses. However, the provisions do not come without exceptions. Investors must be careful of wash sale provisions, which prohibit repurchasing an investment within 30 days of selling it for a loss. If this occurs, the capital loss cannot be applied toward tax calculations and is instead added to the cost basis of the new position, lessening the impact of future capital gains.


  Tax-Loss Harvesting  

Tax-loss harvesting provides a mean of improving the after-tax return on taxable investments. It is the practice of selling securities at a loss and using those losses to offset taxes from gains from other investments and income. Depending on how much loss is harvested, losses can be carried over to offset gains in future years.﻿﻿ Tax-loss harvesting often occurs in December, with December 31 being the last day to realize a capital loss.



Taxable investment accounts identify realized gains generated for the year, so the investor seeks to find unrealized losses to offset those gains. Doing so allows the investor to avoid paying as much in capital gains tax. If the investor wants to repurchase the same investment, they must wait 31 days to avoid a wash sale.﻿﻿



For example, suppose a taxable account currently has $10,000 of realized gains that were incurred during the calendar year, yet, within its portfolio is ABC Corp stock with an unrealized loss of $9,000. The investor may decide to sell the stock prior to the end of the year in order to realize the loss. If the ABC Corp stock was sold on or prior to December 31, the investor would realize $1,000 ($10,000 gains - $9,000 ABC Corp loss) in capital gains. Abiding by the wash-sale rule, if the stock was sold on December 31, the investor would need to wait until January 31 to repurchase it.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Capital Loss Carryover  
  Pros of Capital Loss Carryover  

The potential for tax savings is the main benefits of capital loss carryovers. You can lower your overall taxable income by using capital losses from prior years to offset capital gains in subsequent years by carrying those losses forward. Your tax liability may decrease as a result, and maybe your highest tax rate as well.



Capital loss carryovers provide you the freedom to choose when to use your losses. Depending on your unique tax planning requirements, you can decide when to use the carryover to offset future capital gains. In a year when you expect to have more capital gains or when your tax bracket is higher, for instance, you can strategically opt to employ the carryover. Since capital loss carryovers may be carried forward indefinitely, you can also potentially improve your overall tax situation and manage your tax liabilities over time.



Carryovers of capital losses might also be helpful when planning your investment strategy. You can reduce the total tax impact of your investing activities if you experience sizable capital losses in a single asset class or investment by offsetting those losses against capital gains from other investments. For this reason, you may be more inclined to make riskier investments knowing there are potential tax benefits that may help you offset high gains in other areas.



Last, carryovers of capital losses may be carried forward even after death which may be advantageous to your heirs and estate. You can transfer unused capital loss carryovers to your estate so that your estate or beneficiaries can use them in subsequent tax years.


  Cons of Capital Loss Carryover  

The total amount of capital losses that may be written off in a single tax year is subject to restrictions. Beyond these thresholds, all excess losses must be carried over to subsequent years. This implies that it might take several years to use up a sizable capital loss carryover.



As is the case with any type of legislation, both tax laws and regulations are subject to change. Although capital loss carryovers are typically permitted, future tax law changes could impose limitations or change the regulations governing their use. Long-term tax planning that relies on carryovers may be more difficult as a result of this uncertainty.



Carryovers of capital losses may only be applied to offset capital gains. You can't use your carryover losses to lower your tax bill if you don't have capital gains in a certain tax year. The inability to use carryovers effectively due to this timing restriction may result in a longer period of time before tax benefits are realized. This also further restricts when this tax advantage can actually be used.



There is somewhat of an administrative burden to consider with capital loss carryovers. You must keep correct records and documentation in order to support your capital losses and carryovers. This comprises the cost basis details, purchase and sell transaction records, and any changes made to determine the losses. This information may take years to materialize, requiring documentation every step of the way.





Pros

Often results in tax savings, as otherwise unbeneficial losses can be used in future periods
Results in somewhat flexible timing, as carryovers can be used in future periods when it is more beneficial
May be used in long-term tax planning strategies
May help guide investment decisions, as investors can still benefit from losses
May aid estate planning as carryovers can be passed along to an estate



Cons

Can only be deducted up to certain limits each year, making it potentially a long time before a full carryover can be fully recognized
May have its tax laws changed, negatively impacting long-term tax strategies
Can only be used in periods where an investor also has capital gains to recognize
Often has an administrative burden as details musts be tracked over time





   When to Realize and Claim a Capital Loss Carryover  

To begin offsetting within the same tax year, you must subtract any capital losses from any capital gains you have in the year in question. Accordingly, if you have both capital gains and losses in a given year, you should use the losses to reduce or completely wipe out your taxable capital gains for that year. If your capital losses for the year are greater than your capital profits, you can carry the unused losses forward to subsequent tax years.



In those subsequent years, you can claim a capital loss carryover when you have capital losses that exceed your capital gains in that given tax year. In general, you can carry capital losses forward indefinitely, either until you use them all up or until they run out. Carryovers of capital losses have no time limit, so you can use them to offset capital gains in subsequent tax years until they are exhausted.



Keep in mind there may be restrictions on how much of a loss you can claim in a given tax year, even though you can carry over capital losses. Beyond these limits, any excess losses may be carried over to subsequent years.


   How to Realize and Claim a Capital Loss Carryover  

To claim a capital loss carryover, you first need to figure out what that carryover amount will be. Figure out the entire amount of capital losses from prior tax years that you are eligible to carry forward. When your capital losses have been neutralized against capital gains from prior years, this should be the remaining amount.



To record your capital gains and losses in your current year tax return, use Schedule D (Capital Gains and Losses) on Form 1040 of your tax return. Give the essential details regarding the sales or disposal of assets such as the dates of purchase and sale, the amount of the revenues, and the assets' cost or basis.



For any spreadsheets or specific parts pertaining to capital loss carryovers, refer to the instructions included with Schedule D. These instructions normally walk you through the process of calculating the carryover amount and assist you in determining the tax deduction that can be claimed. This worksheet is discussed more in depth in the following section.



As soon as you have calculated the amount of the capital loss carryover, transfer that amount to the correct line on your tax return. This may differ based on the exact tax form you are utilizing and the IRS guidelines provided for that specific tax year; refer to the tax form's instructions for the specific lines.



It's important to keep accurate records and documentation of your capital losses and carryovers, including any evidence that the initial losses and carryover computations were made correctly. This will be helpful if the IRS audits you or if you need to refer to the data for upcoming tax years.


   Capital Loss Carryover Worksheet  

To keep track of capital loss carryovers, the IRS provides a worksheet or form within the Schedule D instructions. This worksheet typically helps you calculate and document the amount of capital loss that you can carry over from one tax year to the next. It may involve calculations based on the specific details of your capital gains and losses, such as the type of assets sold, the holding period, and any applicable limitations or adjustments.















Capital Loss Carryover Worksheet.



A similar type of worksheet is also provided within Publication 550 (Investment Income and Expenses). Be mindful to always review the most recent year's worksheet, as changes in legislation may change the calculations that impact the amount of carryover you're permitted to take.


   Example of Capital Loss Carryover  

Any excess capital losses can be used to offset future gains and ordinary income. Using the same example, if ABC Corp stock had a $20,000 loss instead of $9,000 loss, the investor would be able to carry over the difference to future tax years. The initial $10,000 of realized capital gain would be offset, and the investor would incur no capital gains tax for the year. In addition, $3,000 can be used to reduce ordinary income during the same calendar year.



After the $10,000 capital gain offset and the $3,000 ordinary income offset, the investor would have $7,000 of capital losses to carry forward into future years. Carrying losses forward is not restricted to the following tax year. Losses can be carried forward into future years until exhausted.﻿﻿




How Do I Calculate a Capital Loss Carryover?
To calculate a capital loss carryover, subtract your capital gains from your capital losses in a tax year. If losses exceed gains, the excess amount is the carryover. Then, in subsequent years, reduce this balance by the amount of the carryover loss used to offset the capital gains for that specific year.




How Long Can I Carry Forward Capital Losses?
Capital losses can be carried forward indefinitely until fully utilized or until exhausted. There is no expiration date for capital loss carryovers.




Can Capital Loss Carryovers Be Used to Offset Ordinary Income?
Capital loss carryovers can only be used to offset capital gains.




Can I Use Capital Loss Carryovers to Offset Gains from Different Asset Classes?
Yes, you can use capital loss carryovers to offset gains from different asset classes. Capital losses from one asset class can be used to offset capital gains from another asset class, helping to reduce your overall tax liability.




What Happens to Capital Loss Carryovers if I Skip a Year of Filing Taxes?
If you skip a year of filing taxes, your capital loss carryovers remain available for future use. They can be utilized in subsequent tax years when you have capital gains to offset, as long as you properly report the carryover on the appropriate tax return.


   The Bottom Line  

A capital loss carryforward refers to the ability to offset capital gains in future tax years with unused capital losses from previous years. When an individual or business incurs capital losses that exceed their capital gains in a given tax year, the excess losses can be carried forward to future years. This allows taxpayers to utilize the losses in subsequent years, reducing their taxable income and potentially lowering their overall tax liability.
What Is the Capital Market Line (CML)?  

The capital market line (CML) represents portfolios that optimally combine risk and return. It is a theoretical concept that represents all the portfolios that optimally combine the risk-free rate of return and the market portfolio of risky assets. Under the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), all investors will choose a position on the capital market line, in equilibrium, by borrowing or lending at the risk-free rate, since this maximizes return for a given level of risk.





Key Takeaways

The capital market line (CML) represents portfolios that optimally combine risk and return.CML is a special case of the capital allocation line (CAL) where the risk portfolio is the market portfolio. Thus, the slope of the CML is the Sharpe ratio of the market portfolio.The intercept point of CML and efficient frontier would result in the most efficient portfolio called the tangency portfolio.As a generalization, buy assets if Sharpe ratio is above CML and sell if Sharpe ratio is below CML.












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   Formula and Calculation of the Capital Market Line (CML)  

Calculating the capital market line is done as follows:



















R


p



=



r


f



+





R


T



−



r


f





σ


T





σ


p

















where:

















R


p



=


portfolio return

















r


f



=


risk free rate

















R


T



=


market return

















σ


T



=


standard deviation of market returns

















σ


p



=


standard deviation of portfolio returns







\begin{aligned} &R_p = r_f + \frac { R_T - r_f }{ \sigma_T } \sigma_p \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &R_p = \text{portfolio return} \\ &r_f = \text{risk free rate} \\ &R_T = \text{market return} \\ &\sigma_T = \text{standard deviation of market returns} \\ &\sigma_p = \text{standard deviation of portfolio returns} \\ \end{aligned}


​Rp​=rf​+σT​RT​−rf​​σp​where:Rp​=portfolio returnrf​=risk free rateRT​=market returnσT​=standard deviation of market returnsσp​=standard deviation of portfolio returns​


   What the CML Can Tell You  

Portfolios that fall on the capital market line (CML), in theory, optimize the risk/return relationship, thereby maximizing performance. The capital allocation line (CAL) makes up the allotment of risk-free assets and risky portfolios for an investor.



CML is a special case of the CAL where the risk portfolio is the market portfolio. Thus, the slope of the CML is the Sharpe ratio of the market portfolio. As a generalization, buy assets if the Sharpe ratio is above the CML and sell if the Sharpe ratio is below the CML.






CML differs from the more popular efficient frontier in that it includes risk-free investments. The intercept point of CML and efficient frontier would result in the most efficient portfolio, called the tangency portfolio.



Mean-variance analysis was pioneered by Harry Markowitz and James Tobin. The efficient frontier of optimal portfolios was identified by Markowitz in 1952, and James Tobin included the risk-free rate to modern portfolio theory in 1958. William Sharpe then developed the CAPM in the 1960s, and won a Nobel prize for his work in 1990, along with Markowitz and Merton Miller.



The CAPM is the line that connects the risk-free rate of return with the tangency point on the efficient frontier of optimal portfolios that offer the highest expected return for a defined level of risk, or the lowest risk for a given level of expected return.



The portfolios with the best trade-off between expected returns and variance (risk) lie on this line. The tangency point is the optimal portfolio of risky assets, known as the market portfolio. Under the assumptions of mean-variance analysis—that investors seek to maximize their expected return for a given amount of variance risk, and that there is a risk-free rate of return—all investors will select portfolios that lie on the CML.



According to Tobin's separation theorem, finding the market portfolio and the best combination of that market portfolio and the risk-free asset are separate problems. Individual investors will either hold just the risk-free asset or some combination of the risk-free asset and the market portfolio, depending on their risk-aversion.



As an investor moves up the CML, the overall portfolio risk and returns increase. Risk-averse investors will select portfolios close to the risk-free asset, preferring low variance to higher returns. Less risk-averse investors will prefer portfolios higher up on the CML, with a higher expected return, but more variance. By borrowing funds at a risk-free rate, they can also invest more than 100% of their investable funds in the risky market portfolio, increasing both the expected return and the risk beyond that offered by the market portfolio.


   Capital Market Line vs. Security Market Line  

The CML is sometimes confused with the security market line (SML). The SML is derived from the CML. While the CML shows the rates of return for a specific portfolio, the SML represents the market’s risk and return at a given time, and shows the expected returns of individual assets. And while the measure of risk in the CML is the standard deviation of returns (total risk), the risk measure in the SML is systematic risk or beta.



Securities that are fairly priced will plot on the CML and the SML. Securities that plot above the CML or the SML are generating returns that are too high for the given risk and are underpriced. Securities that plot below CML or the SML are generating returns that are too low for the given risk and are overpriced.




Why Is the Capital Market Line Important?
Portfolios that fall on the capital market line (CML), in theory, optimize the risk/return relationship, thereby maximizing performance. So, the slope of the CML is the Sharpe ratio of the market portfolio. As a generalization, investors should look to buy assets if the Sharpe ratio is above the CML and sell if the Sharpe ratio is below the CML.




How Is Capital Allocation Line (CAL) Related to CML?
The capital allocation line (CAL) makes up the allotment of risk-free assets and risky portfolios for an investor. CML is a special case of the CAL where the risk portfolio is the market portfolio. As an investor moves up the CML, the overall portfolio risk and returns increase. Risk-averse investors will select portfolios close to the risk-free asset, preferring low variance to higher returns. Less risk-averse investors will prefer portfolios higher up on the CML, with a higher expected return, but more variance. 




Are CML and Efficient Frontier the Same?
CML differs from the more popular efficient frontier in that it includes risk-free investments. The efficient frontier is made up of investment portfolios that offer the highest expected return for a specific level of risk. The intercept point of CML and efficient frontier would result in the most efficient portfolio, called the tangency portfolio.




Are CML and Security Market Line (SML) the Same?
The CML is sometimes confused with the security market line (SML). The SML is derived from the CML. While the CML shows the rates of return for a specific portfolio, the SML represents the market’s risk and return at a given time, and shows the expected returns of individual assets. And while the measure of risk in the CML is the standard deviation of returns (total risk), the risk measure in the SML is systematic risk or beta.
What Are Capital Markets?  

Capital markets are where savings and investments are channeled between suppliers and those in need. Suppliers are people or institutions with capital to lend or invest and typically include banks and investors. Those who seek capital in this market are businesses, governments, and individuals. Capital markets are composed of primary and secondary markets. The most common capital markets are the stock market and the bond market. They seek to improve transactional efficiencies by bringing suppliers together with those seeking capital and providing a place where they can exchange securities.





Key Takeaways

Capital markets refer to the venues where funds are exchanged between suppliers and those who seek capital for their own use.Suppliers in capital markets are typically banks and investors while those who seek capital are businesses, governments, and individuals.Capital markets are used to sell different financial instruments, including equities and debt securities.These markets are divided into two categories: primary and secondary markets.The best-known capital markets include the stock market and the bond markets.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Understanding Capital Markets  

The term capital market is a broad one that is used to describe the in-person and digital spaces in which various entities trade different types of financial instruments. These venues may include the stock market, the bond market, and the currency and foreign exchange (forex) markets. Most markets are concentrated in major financial centers such as New York, London, Singapore, and Hong Kong.



Capital markets are composed of the suppliers and users of funds. Suppliers include households (through the savings accounts they hold with banks) as well as institutions like pension and retirement funds, life insurance companies, charitable foundations, and non-financial companies that generate excess cash. The users of the funds distributed on capital markets include home and motor vehicle purchasers, non-financial companies, and governments financing infrastructure investment and operating expenses. 



Capital markets are used primarily to sell financial products such as equities and debt securities. Equities are stocks, which are ownership shares in a company. Debt securities, such as bonds, are interest-bearing IOUs.



These markets are divided into two different categories:



Primary markets where new equity stock and bond issues are sold to investors
Secondary markets, which trade existing securities






Capital markets are a crucial part of a functioning modern economy because they move money from the people who have it to those who need it for productive use.


   Primary vs. Secondary Markets  
  Primary Market  

When a company publicly sells new stocks or bonds for the first time, such as in an initial public offering (IPO), it does so in the primary capital market. This market is sometimes called the new issues market. When investors purchase securities on the primary capital market, the company that offers the securities hires an underwriting firm to review it and create a prospectus outlining the price and other details of the securities to be issued.



All issues on the primary market are subject to strict regulation. Companies must file statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other securities agencies and must wait until their filings are approved before they can go public.



Small investors are often unable to buy securities on the primary market because the company and its investment bankers want to sell all of the available securities in a short period of time to meet the required volume, and they must focus on marketing the sale to large investors who can buy more securities at once. Marketing the sale to investors can often include a roadshow or dog and pony show, in which investment bankers and the company's leadership travel to meet with potential investors and convince them of the value of the security being issued.


  Secondary Market  

The secondary market includes venues overseen by a regulatory body like the SEC where these previously issued securities are traded between investors. Issuing companies do not have a part in the secondary market. The New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq are examples of secondary markets.



The secondary market has two different categories: the auction and the dealer markets. The auction market is home to the open outcry system where buyers and sellers congregate in one location and announce the prices at which they are willing to buy and sell their securities. The NYSE is one such example. In dealer markets, though, people trade through electronic networks. Most small investors trade through dealer markets.




Are Capital Markets the Same as Financial Markets?
While there is a great deal of overlap at times, there are some fundamental distinctions between these two terms. Financial markets encompass a broad range of venues where people and organizations exchange assets, securities, and contracts with one another, and are often secondary markets. Capital markets, on the other hand, are used primarily to raise funding, usually for a firm, to be used in operations, or for growth.




What Is a Primary vs. Secondary Market?
New capital is raised via stocks and bonds that are issued and sold to investors in the primary capital market, while traders and investors subsequently buy and sell those securities among one another on the secondary capital market but where no new capital is received by the firm.




Which Markets Do Firms Use to Raise Capital?
Companies that raise equity capital can seek private placements via angel or venture capital investors but are able to raise the largest amount through an initial public offering when shares list publicly on the stock market for the first time. Debt capital can be raised through bank loans or via securities issued in the bond market.


   The Bottom Line  

Capital markets are a very important part of the financial industry. They bring together suppliers of capital and those who seek it for their own purposes. This may include governments that want to fund infrastructure projects, businesses that want to expand, and even individuals who want to buy a home. They are divided into two different categories: the primary market where companies list new issues for the first time and the secondary market, which allows investors to purchase already-issued securities. The key benefit to these markets is that they allow money to move from those who have it to those who need it for their own purposes.
What Is a Capital Project?  

A capital project is a long-term, capital-intensive investment to build upon, add to, or improve a capital asset. Capital projects are defined by their large scale and large cost relative to other investments that involve less planning and resources.





Key Takeaways

A capital project is an often-pricey, long-term project to expand, maintain, or improve upon a significant piece of property.A capital project is distinct from other company projects as it is large in scale, high-cost, and requires considerable planning relative to other investments.Capital projects often refer to infrastructure, like roads or railways, or, in the case of a corporation, the development of a manufacturing plant or office.


   Understanding Capital Projects  

A capital project is a large-scale project with a high cost that is capitalized or depreciated.



Regular capital investments, such as new facilities, structures, or systems, may be necessary to accelerate growth within a company or government—for example, if a company wants to build a new warehouse or purchase new manufacturing equipment to increase efficiency on the factory line.






Capital projects typically consist of the public sector building or maintaining infrastructure, such as roads, railways, and dams, and companies upgrading, expanding, or replacing their facilities and equipment.



Capital projects must be managed appropriately, for they require a significant commitment of company resources and time. The project assumes a calculated risk with the expectation that the capital asset pays off. Management of risk is a key driver of successful project development and delivery of a capital project.


   Examples of Capital Projects  

The most common examples of capital projects are infrastructure projects such as railways, roads, and dams. In addition, these projects include assets such as subways, pipelines, refineries, power plants, land, and buildings.



Capital projects are also common in corporations. Corporations allocate large amounts of resources (financial and human capital) to build or maintain capital assets, such as equipment or a new manufacturing project. In both cases, capital projects are typically planned and discussed at length to decide the most efficient and resourceful plan of execution.






Capital projects are big investments and, therefore, face a lot of scrutiny, especially when paid for with public funds or the money of a publicly traded company. The goal is for these investments to pay off, but sometimes they are poorly planned and executed and end up losing significant capital. 


   Capital Project Funding  

These projects are big, take time to complete, and can cost a lot of money, meaning it is often necessary to obtain equity or debt financing to make them happen. To receive funding, capital projects are obligated to prove how the investment provides an improvement (additional capacity), new useful feature, or benefit (reduced costs).



Additional funding sources for these projects include bonds, grants, bank loans, existing cash reserves, company operation budgets, and private funding. These projects may require debt financing to secure funding. Debt financing may also be required for infrastructure, such as bridges. However, the bridge cannot be seized if the builder defaults on the loan. Debt financing ensures that the financier can recover funds if the builder defaults on the loan.






Economic conditions and regulatory changes can affect the start or completion of capital projects, as in the case of Brexit, which caused the cancellation or delays of some projects in Britain.



In the United States, Congress is responsible for funding public capital projects, such as roads, power lines, bridges, and dams.




What are capital projects in government?
Government capital projects are large-scale, costly projects to maintain or improve public assets, such as parks, roads, and schools.




What is a noncapital project?
Most public offices set thresholds for what qualifies as a capital project. For example, in the Commonwealth of Virginia, a capital project is defined as a project that creates at least 5,000 gross square feet of building space or exceeds $3 million in total project cost. Projects that fall under each jurisdiction’s thresholds, which can also include life expectancy, may instead be called noncapital projects.




What makes a capital project successful?
Careful planning and realistic estimates do. Affordable funding needs to be secured, costs need to be managed well, and the project must have a very good chance of becoming profitable. One or two setbacks could turn a capital project into a financial disaster.


   The Bottom Line  

Capital assets are key revenue generators and the backbone of many companies. Those wishing to expand and become more profitable will need to invest in capital projects and do so in the most cost-effective way possible. Over time, it is smart, well-executed investments that separate the good stocks from the weak ones.
What Is Capital Stock?  

Capital stock is the amount of common and preferred shares that a company is authorized to issue, according to its corporate charter. Capital stock can only be issued by the company and is the maximum number of shares that can ever be outstanding. The amount is listed on the balance sheet in the company's shareholders' equity section.





Key Takeaways

Capital stock is the amount of common and preferred shares that a company is authorized to issue—recorded on the balance sheet under shareholders' equity.The amount of capital stock is the maximum amount of shares that a company can ever have outstanding.Issuing capital stock allows a company to raise money without incurring debt.The drawbacks of issuing capital stock are that the company relinquishes more control and dilutes the value of outstanding shares.












Investopedia / Dennis Madamba


   Understanding Capital Stock  

Capital stock can be issued by a company to raise capital to grow its business. Issued shares can be bought by investors—who seek price appreciation and dividends—or exchanged for assets, such as equipment needed for operations.



The number of outstanding shares, which are shares issued to investors, is not necessarily equal to the number of available or authorized shares. Authorized shares are those that a company is legally able to issue—the capital stock, while outstanding shares are those that have actually been issued and remain outstanding to shareholders.



Issuing capital stock can allow a company to raise money without incurring a debt burden and the associated interest charges. The drawbacks are that the company would be relinquishing more of its equity and diluting the value of each outstanding share.



The amount that a company receives from issuing capital stock is considered to be capital contributions from investors and is reported as paid-in capital and additional paid-in capital in the stockholder's equity section of the balance sheet.



The common stock balance is calculated as the nominal or par value of the common stock multiplied by the number of common stock shares outstanding. The nominal value of a company's stock is an arbitrary value assigned for balance sheet purposes when the company is issuing shares—and is generally $1 or less. It has no relation to the market price.


   Example of Capital Stock  

If a company obtains authorization to raise $5 million and its stock has a par value of $1, it may issue and sell up to 5 million shares of stock. The difference between the par value and the sale price of the stock is logged under shareholders' equity as additional paid-in capital.



If the stock sells for $10, $5 million will be recorded as paid-in capital, while $45 million will be treated as additional paid-in capital.



Consider, Apple (AAPL), which has authorized 12.6 million shares with a $0.00001 par value. The 12.6 million is its capital stock. Meanwhile, as of June 27, 2020, Apple had issued 4,283,939 shares and had 4,443,236 outstanding.


   Treasury Stock vs. Preferred Stock vs. Common Stock  

Firms can issue some of the capital stock over time or buy back shares that are currently owned by shareholders. Previously outstanding shares that are bought back by the company are known as Treasury shares.



Authorized stock refers to the maximum number of shares a firm is allowed to issue based on the board of directors' approval. Those shares can be either common or preferred stock shares. A business can issue shares over time, so long as the total number of shares does not exceed the authorized amount. Authorizing a number of shares is an exercise that incurs legal costs, and authorizing a large number of shares that can be issued over time is a way to optimize this cost.



Preferred stock is listed first in the shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet, because its owners receive dividends before the owners of common stock, and have preference during liquidation. Its par value is different from the common stock, and sometimes represents the initial selling price per share, which is used to calculate its dividend payments.



Total par value equals the number of preferred stock shares outstanding times the par value per share. For example, if a company has 1 million shares of preferred stock at $25 par value per share, it reports a par value of $25 million.


   Formula and Calculation of Capital Stock  

Public companies must report the value of their capital stock on the shareholder's equity section of their quarterly balance sheet. The formula for valuing capital stock is:















CS


=


(


NSI


)


×


(


PVPS


)
















where:
















CS


=


Capital stock
















NSI


=


Number of shares issued
















PVPS


=


Par value per share







\begin{aligned}&\text{CS}=(\text{NSI})\times(\text{PVPS})\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{CS}=\text{Capital stock}\\&\text{NSI}=\text{Number of shares issued}\\&\text{PVPS}=\text{Par value per share}\end{aligned}


​CS=(NSI)×(PVPS)where:CS=Capital stockNSI=Number of shares issuedPVPS=Par value per share​
Note that different classes of stock may have different par values.


   Types of Capital Stock  

In addition to the classes of shares listed above, there are additional categories to describe shares according to their place in the market.



Authorized shares represent the maximum amount of shares that a company is allowed to issue. This is normally determined in the company's charter, which may outline the procedures for authorizing additional shares. Issued shares represent the portion of authorized shares that the company has already sold to investors.Unissued shares are the portion of authorized shares that have not yet been issued. Note that the sum of issued and unissued shares should add up to the total number of authorized shares.Treasury shares are issued shares that the company holds in its own account, usually as the result of a buyback. These shares do not have voting rights or dividends. Outstanding shares are the number of shares still held by outside investors, especially after a buyback. 


   Valuation of Capital Stock  

Capital stock is typically valued based on its par value, as well as the value of additional paid-in capital. This represents the excess over the par value that investors pay the company for their shares.



When a company sells shares in an initial public offering, the IPO price is normally well above the par value. This difference will be listed as additional paid-in capital. In addition, any secondary offerings or share buybacks will also affect the value of the capital stock.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Capital Stock  

Equity stock sales represent one of the most common ways for a company to raise capital. However, there are some disadvantages.


  Cheaper Than Borrowing  

Unlike taking loans or issuing bonds, a company is not required to repay capital investors at a set schedule. In addition, it is inexpensive for a company to issue new shares, which can be sold at a much higher price than the cost of issuing the securities.


  Loss of Control  

Capital stock represents ownership of the company's equity. If a company's founders sell the majority of its voting shares to outside investors, they risk losing the ability to control the company's future. Moreover, even if it only sells a small number of shares, securities laws will require the company to publish details of its financial health.


  Dilution of Shares  

When a company issues shares, it dilutes the value of existing shares in the market, potentially devaluing the equity held by older investors. In order to raise the value of outstanding shares, the company must either increase its market capitalization or issue a buyback.




Pros and Cons of Capital Stock

Pros

Allow companies to raise cheaply and easily.
Unlike loans or bonds, equity capital is interest-free and does not have a set repayment schedule.



Cons

Stock issuances can dilute the value of existing shares.
Company founders may lose control over the direction of their company.
Strict securities laws and transparency requirements make it







How Long Should You Hold Stock for Long-term Capital Gains?
If you hold stock or other assets for more than one year, it is taxed at the long-term capital gains rate, which is generally lower for all but the wealthiest investors. For short-term trades, you are taxed at your ordinary income level.




How Do You Avoid the Capital Gains Tax?
The capital gains tax is a tax on the profits from selling securities or other investments. Most investors can reduce their capital gains taxes by holding their investments for over one year. If you sell before one year, the gains are taxed at your ordinary income level, which is generally higher than the long-term capital gains tax rate. If you suffer a capital loss, you can use those losses to offset other gains.




What Is Capital Stock in Accounting?
In accounting and finance, capital stock represents the value of a company's shares that are held by outside investors. It is calculated by multiplying the par value of those shares by the number of shares outstanding.


   The Bottom Line  

Capital stock is another term for the ownership shares of a company's equity, represented as either preferred or common stock. Corporations typically sell their shares to investors in order to raise capital to fund their business operations. In exchange, investors receive partial ownership of the company, including dividends or voting power.
What Is Capital Structure?  

Capital structure is the particular combination of debt and equity used by a company to finance its overall operations and growth.



Equity capital arises from ownership shares in a company and claims to its future cash flows and profits. Debt comes in the form of bond issues or loans, while equity may come in the form of common stock, preferred stock, or retained earnings. Short-term debt is also considered to be part of the capital structure.





Key Takeaways

Capital structure is how a company funds its overall operations and growth.Debt consists of borrowed money that is due back to the lender, commonly with interest expense.Equity consists of ownership rights in the company, without the need to pay back any investment.The debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio is useful in determining the riskiness of a company's borrowing practices.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Dynamics of Debt and Equity  

Both debt and equity can be found on the balance sheet. Company assets, also listed on the balance sheet, are purchased with debt or equity. Capital structure can be a mixture of a company's long-term debt, short-term debt, common stock, and preferred stock. A company's proportion of short-term debt versus long-term debt is considered when analyzing its capital structure.



When analysts refer to capital structure, they are most likely referring to a firm's debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio, which provides insight into how risky a company's borrowing practices are. Usually, a company that is heavily financed by debt has a more aggressive capital structure and therefore poses a greater risk to investors. This risk, however, may be the primary source of the firm's growth.



Debt is one of the two main ways a company can raise money in the capital markets. Companies benefit from debt because of its tax advantages; interest payments made as a result of borrowing funds may be tax-deductible. Debt also allows a company or business to retain ownership, unlike equity. Additionally, in times of low-interest rates, debt is abundant and easy to access.



Equity allows outside investors to take partial ownership of the company. Equity is more expensive than debt, especially when interest rates are low. However, unlike debt, equity does not need to be paid back. This is a benefit to the company in the case of declining earnings. On the other hand, equity represents a claim by the owner on the future earnings of the company.


   Optimal Capital Structure  

Companies that use more debt than equity to finance their assets and fund operating activities have a high leverage ratio and an aggressive capital structure. A company that pays for assets with more equity than debt has a low leverage ratio and a conservative capital structure. That said, a high leverage ratio and an aggressive capital structure can also lead to higher growth rates, whereas a conservative capital structure can lead to lower growth rates.



Analysts use the D/E ratio to compare capital structure. It is calculated by dividing total liabilities by total equity. Savvy companies have learned to incorporate both debt and equity into their corporate strategies. At times, however, companies may rely too heavily on external funding and debt in particular. Investors can monitor a firm's capital structure by tracking the D/E ratio and comparing it against the company's industry peers.






It is the goal of company management to find the ideal mix of debt and equity, also referred to as the optimal capital structure, to finance operations.




Why Do Different Companies Have Different Capital Structure?
Firms in different industries will use capital structures better suited to their type of business. Capital-intensive industries like auto manufacturing may utilize more debt, while labor-intensive or service-oriented firms like software companies may prioritize equity.




How Do Managers Decide on Capital Structure?
Assuming that a company has access to capital (e.g. investors and lenders), they will want to minimize their cost of capital. This can be done using a weighted average cost of capital (WACC) calculation. To calculate WACC the manager or analyst will multiply the cost of each capital component by its proportional weight.




How Do Analysts and Investors Use Capital Structure?
A company with too much debt can be seen as a credit risk. Too much equity, however, could mean the company is underutilizing its growth opportunities or paying too much for its cost of capital (as equity tends to be more costly than debt). Unfortunately, there is no magic ratio of debt to equity to use as guidance to achieve real-world optimal capital structure. What defines a healthy blend of debt and equity varies depending on the industry the company operates in, its stage of development, and can vary over time due to external changes in interest rates and regulatory environment.




What Measures Do Analysts and Investors Use to Evaluate Capital Structure?
In addition to the weighted average cost of capital (WACC), several metrics can be used to estimate the suitability of a company's capital structure. Leverage ratios are one group of metrics that are used, such as the debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio or debt ratio.


   The Bottom Line  

Capital structure is the specific mix of debt and equity that a company uses to finance its operations and growth. Debt consists of borrowed money that must be repaid, often with interest, while equity represents ownership stakes in the company. The debt-to-equity (D/E) ratio is a commonly used measure of a company's capital structure and can provide insight into its level of risk. A company with a high proportion of debt in its capital structure may be considered riskier for investors, but may also have greater potential for growth.
What Is Capitalism?  

Capitalism is an economic system in which private individuals or businesses own capital goods. At the same time, business owners (capitalists) employ workers (labor) who receive only wages; labor doesn't own the means of production but instead uses them on behalf of the owners of capital.



The production of goods and services under capitalism is based on supply and demand in the general market—known as a market economy—rather than through central planning—which is known as a planned economy or command economy.



The purest form of capitalism is free-market or laissez-faire capitalism. Here, private individuals are unrestrained. They may determine where to invest, what to produce or sell, and at which prices to exchange goods and services. The laissez-faire marketplace operates without checks or controls. Today, most countries practice a mixed capitalist system that includes some degree of government regulation of business and ownership of select industries.





Key Takeaways

Capitalism is an economic system characterized by private ownership of the means of production, with labor solely paid wages.Capitalism depends on the enforcement of private property rights, which provide incentives for investment in and productive use of capital.Capitalism developed out of feudalism and mercantilism in Europe and dramatically expanded industrialization and the large-scale availability of mass-market consumer goods.Pure capitalism can be contrasted with pure socialism (where all means of production are collective or state-owned).







Capitalism


   Understanding Capitalism  

Functionally, capitalism is one system of economic production and resource distribution. Instead of planning economic decisions through centralized political methods, as with socialism or feudalism, economic planning under capitalism occurs via decentralized, competitive, and voluntary decisions.



Capitalism is essentially an economic system in which the means of production (i.e., factories, tools, machines, raw materials, etc.) are organized by one or more business owners (capitalists). Capitalists then hire workers to operate the means of production in return for wages. Workers have no claim on the means of production or on the profits generated from their labor—these belong to the capitalists.



As such, private property rights are fundamental to capitalism. Most modern concepts of private property stem from John Locke's theory of homesteading, in which human beings claim ownership by mixing their labor with unclaimed resources. Once owned, the only legitimate means of transferring property are through voluntary exchange, gifts, inheritance, or the re-homesteading of abandoned property.



Private property promotes efficiency by giving the owner of resources an incentive to maximize the value of their property. So the more valuable the resource is, the more trading power it provides the owner. In a capitalist system, the person who owns the property is entitled to any value associated with that property.


  Why Private Property Rights Matter for Capitalism  

For individuals or businesses to deploy their capital goods confidently, a system must exist that protects their legal right to own or transfer private property. A capitalist society relies on the use of contracts, fair dealing, and tort law to facilitate and enforce these private property rights.



When property isn't privately owned but rather is shared by the public, a problem known as the tragedy of the commons can emerge. With a common pool resource, which all people can use and none can limit access to, all individuals have an incentive to extract as much use-value as they can and no incentive to conserve or reinvest in the resource. Privatizing the resource is one possible solution to this problem, along with various voluntary or involuntary collective action approaches. 






Under capitalist production, the business owners (capitalists) retain ownership of the goods being produced. If a worker in a shoe factory were to take home a pair of shoes that they made, it would be theft. This concept is known as the alienation of workers from their labor.


   Capitalism and the Profit Motive  

Profits are closely associated with the concept of private property. By definition, an individual only enters into a voluntary exchange of private property when they believe the exchange benefits them in some psychic or material way. In such trades, each party gains extra subjective value, or profit, from the transaction.



The profit motive, or the desire to earn profits from business activity, is the driving force of capitalism. It creates a competitive environment in which businesses compete to be the low-cost producer of a certain good in order to gain market share. If it is more profitable to produce a different type of good, then a business is incentivized to switch.



Voluntary trade is another, related mechanism that drives activity in a capitalist system. The owners of resources compete with one another over consumers, who, in turn, compete with other consumers over goods and services. All this activity is built into the price system, which balances supply and demand to coordinate the distribution of resources.



A capitalist earns the highest profit by using capital goods (such as machinery, tools, etc.) most efficiently while producing the highest-value good or service. By contrast, the capitalist suffers losses when capital resources aren't used efficiently and instead create less-valuable outputs.





Capitalism vs. Markets

Capitalism is a system of economic production. Markets are systems of distribution and allocation of goods already produced. While they often go hand-in-hand, capitalism and free markets refer to two distinct systems.


   Precursors to Capitalism: Feudalism and Mercantilism  

Capitalism is a relatively new type of social arrangement for producing goods in an economy. It arose largely along with the advent of the Industrial Revolution, some time in the late 17th century. Before capitalism, other systems of production and social organization were prevalent.


  Feudalism and the Roots of Capitalism  

Capitalism grew out of European feudalism. Up until the 12th century, a very small percentage of the population of Europe lived in towns. Skilled workers lived in the city but received their keep from feudal lords rather than a real wage, and most workers were serfs for landed nobles. However, by the late Middle Ages, rising urbanism, with cities as centers of industry and trade, became more and more economically important.



Under feudalism, society was segmented into social classes based on birth or family lineage. Lords (nobility) were the landowners, while serfs (peasants and laborers) didn't own land but were under the employ of the landed nobility.



The advent of industrialization revolutionized the trades and encouraged more people to move into towns where they could earn more money working in a factory than existing at a subsistence level in exchange for labor.


  Mercantilism  

Mercantilism gradually replaced the feudal economic system in Western Europe and became the primary economic system of commerce during the 16th to 18th centuries. Mercantilism started as trade between towns, but it wasn't necessarily competitive trade. Initially, each town had vastly different products and services that were slowly homogenized over time by demand.



After the homogenization of goods, trade was carried out in broader and broader circles: town to town, county to county, province to province, and, finally, nation to nation. When too many nations were offering similar goods for trade, the trade took on a competitive edge that was sharpened by strong feelings of nationalism on a continent that was constantly embroiled in wars.



Colonialism flourished alongside mercantilism, but the nations seeding the world with settlements weren't trying to increase trade. Most colonies were set up with an economic system that smacked of feudalism, with their raw goods going back to the motherland and, in the case of the British colonies in North America, being forced to repurchase the finished product with a pseudo-currency that prevented them from trading with other nations.



It was economist Adam Smith who noticed that mercantilism was a regressive system that was creating trade imbalances between nations and keeping them from advancing. His ideas for a free market opened the world to capitalism.


  The Growth of Industry  

Adam Smith's ideas were well-timed, as the Industrial Revolution was starting to cause tremors that would soon shake the Western world. The (often-literal) gold mine of colonialism had brought new wealth and new demand for the products of domestic industries, which drove the expansion and mechanization of production.



As technology leaped ahead and factories no longer had to be built near waterways or windmills to function, industrialists began building in the cities where there were now thousands of people to supply labor.






Capitalism involved reorganizing society into social classes based not on ownership of land, but ownership of capital (in other words, businesses). Capitalists were able to earn profits from the surplus labor of the working class, who earned only wages. Thus, the two social classes defined by capitalism are the capitalists and the laboring classes.



Industrial tycoons were the first people to amass wealth, often outstripping both the landed nobles and many of the money-lending/banking families. For the first time in history, common people could have hopes of becoming wealthy. The new money crowd built more factories that required more labor, while also producing more goods for people to purchase.



During this period, the term "capitalism"—originating from the Latin word "capitalis," which means "head of cattle"—rose to prominence. In 1850, French socialist Louis Blanc used the term to signify a system of exclusive ownership of industrial means of production by private individuals rather than shared ownership.


   Pros and Cons of Capitalism  



Pros

More efficient allocation of capital resources
Competition leads to lower consumer prices
Wages and general standards of living rise overall
Spurs innovation and invention



Cons

Creates inherent class conflict between capital and labor
Generates enormous wealth disparities and social inequalities
Can incentivize corruption and crony capitalism in the pursuit of profit
Produces negative effects such as pollution





  Pros Explained  

More efficient allocation of capital resources: Labor and means of production follow capital in this system because supply follows demand.



Competition leads to lower consumer prices: Capitalists are in competition against one another, and so will seek to increase their profits by cutting costs, including labor and materials costs. Mass production also usually benefits consumers.



Wages and general standards of living rise overall: Wages under capitalism increased, helped by the formation of unions. More and better goods became cheaply accessible to wide populations, raising standards of living in previously unthinkable ways.



Spurs innovation and invention: In capitalism, inequality is the driving force that encourages innovation, which then pushes economic development.


  Cons Explained  

Creates inherent class conflict between capital and labor: While capitalists enjoy the potential for high profits, workers may be exploited for their labor, with wages always kept lower than the true value of the work being done.



Generates enormous wealth disparities and social inequalities: Capitalism has created an immense gap between the wealthy and the poor, as well as social inequalities.



Can incentivize corruption and crony capitalism in the pursuit of profit: Capitalism can provide incentives for corruption emerging from favoritism and close relationships between business people and the state.



Produces negative effects such as pollution: Capitalism often leads to a host of negative externalities, such as air and noise pollution, and these costs paid for by society, rather than the producer of the effect.


   Capitalism vs. Socialism  

In terms of political economy, capitalism is often contrasted with socialism. The fundamental difference between the two is the ownership and control of the means of production.



In a capitalist economy, property and businesses are owned and controlled by individuals. In a socialist economy, the state owns and manages the vital means of production. However, other differences also exist in the form of equity, efficiency, and employment.


  Equity  

The capitalist economy is unconcerned about equitable arrangements. The primary concern of the socialist model is the redistribution of wealth and resources from the rich to the poor, out of fairness, and to ensure equality in opportunity and equality of outcome. Equality is valued above high achievement, and the collective good is viewed above the opportunity for individuals to advance.


  Efficiency  

The capitalist argument is that the profit incentive drives corporations to develop innovative new products desired by the consumer and in demand in the marketplace. It is argued that the state ownership of the means of production leads to inefficiency because, without the motivation to earn more money, management, workers, and developers are less likely to put forth the extra effort to push new ideas or products.


  Employment  

In a capitalist economy, the state doesn't directly employ the workforce. This lack of government-run employment can lead to unemployment during economic recessions and depressions.



In a socialist economy, the state is the primary employer. During times of economic hardship, the socialist state can order hiring, so there is full employment. Also, there tends to be a stronger "safety net" in socialist systems for workers who are injured or permanently disabled. Those who can no longer work have fewer options available to help them in capitalist societies.





Karl Marx, Capitalism, and Socialism

Philosopher Karl Marx was famously critical of the capitalist system of production because he saw it as an engine for creating social ills, massive inequalities, and self-destructive tendencies. Marx argued that, over time, capitalist businesses would drive one another out of business through fierce competition, while, at the same time, the laboring class would swell and begin to resent their unfair conditions. His solution was socialism, through which the means of production would be handed over to the laboring class in an egalitarian fashion.


   Varieties of Capitalism  

Today, many countries operate with capitalist production, but this also exists along a spectrum. In reality, there are elements of pure capitalism that operate alongside otherwise-socialist institutions.



The standard spectrum of economic systems places laissez-faire capitalism at one extreme and a complete planned economy—such as communism—at the other. Everything in the middle could be said to be a mixed economy. The mixed economy has elements of both central planning and unplanned private business. By this definition, nearly every country in the world has a mixed economy.


  Mixed Capitalism  

When the government owns some but not all the means of production and may legally circumvent, replace, limit, or otherwise regulate private economic interests, it is said to be a mixed economy or mixed economic system. A mixed economy respects property rights, but places limits on them.



Property owners are restricted as to how they exchange with one another. These restrictions come in many forms, such as minimum wage laws, tariffs, quotas, windfall taxes, license restrictions, prohibited products or contracts, direct public expropriation, antitrust legislation, legal tender laws, subsidies, and eminent domain. Governments in mixed economies also fully or partly own and operate certain industries, especially those considered public goods.


  Anarcho-Capitalism  

In contrast, with pure capitalism, also known as laissez-faire capitalism or anarcho-capitalism, all industries are left up to private ownership and operation, including public goods, and no central government authority provides regulation or supervision of economic activity in general.




What Is an Example of Capitalism?
An example of capitalist production would be if an entrepreneur starts a new widget company and opens a factory. This individual uses available capital that they own (or from outside investors) and buys the land, builds the factory, orders the machinery, and sources the raw materials. Workers are then hired by the entrepreneur to operate the machines and produce widgets. Note that the workers don't own the machines they use or the widgets that they produce. Instead, they receive only wages in exchange for their labor. These wages represent a small fraction of what the entrepreneur earns from the venture.




Who Benefits From Capitalism?
Capitalism tends to benefit capitalists the most. These include business owners, investors, and other owners of capital. While capitalism has been praised for improving the standard of living for many people across the board, it has by far benefited those at the top.




Why Is Capitalism Harmful?
Because of how it is structured, capitalism will always pit business owners and investors (i.e., capitalists) against the working class. Capitalists are in competition against one another, and so will seek to increase their profits by cutting costs, including labor costs. At the same time, workers seek higher wages, fairer treatment, and better working conditions. These two incentives are fundamentally at odds, which creates class conflict.




Is Capitalism the Same as Free Enterprise?
Capitalism and free enterprise are often seen as synonymous. In truth, they are closely related yet distinct terms with overlapping features. It is possible to have a capitalist economy without complete free enterprise, and a free market without capitalism. Any economy is capitalist as long as private individuals control the factors of production. However, a capitalist system can still be regulated by government laws, and the profits of capitalist endeavors can still be taxed heavily. "Free enterprise" can roughly be understood to mean economic exchanges free of coercive government influence.


   The Bottom Line  

Capitalism is an economic and political system where trade and industry are controlled by private owners for profit. Its core principles are: accumulation, ownership, and profiting from capital. In its purest form, capitalism works best when these private owners have assurances that the wealth they generate will be kept in their own pocket. But giving the wealthy free rein to become even wealthier is controversial. Endorsing such behavior without some concessions is unlikely to get many politicians elected.



Capitalism is the dominant world economic system, although it often isn’t pure in form. In many countries, interventions from the state, a core trait of socialism, are frequent. Businesses are able to chase profit but within the boundaries set by the government. Most political theorists and nearly all economists argue that capitalism is the most efficient and productive system of exchange.
What Is Capitalization?  

Capitalization is an accounting method in which a cost is included in the value of an asset and expensed over the useful life of that asset, rather than being expensed in the period the cost was originally incurred. In addition to this usage, market capitalization refers to the number of outstanding shares multiplied by the share price, which is a measure of the total market value of a company.





Key Takeaways

In accounting, capitalization allows for an asset to be depreciated over its useful life—appearing on the balance sheet rather than the income statement.Assets are capitalized to record the expense over time to match the period when benefit is received to when costs are recognized.In finance, capitalization refers to the book value or the total of a company's debt and equity.Companies that are undercapitalized mean the company does not have enough capital on hand to finance all obligations.Market capitalization is the dollar value of a company's outstanding shares and is calculated as the current market price multiplied by the total number of outstanding shares.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Capitalization  

In accounting, capitalization is an accounting rule used to recognize a cash outlay as an asset on the balance sheet rather than an expense on the income statement. In finance, capitalization is a quantitative assessment of a firm's capital structure. Here it refers to the cost of capital in the form of a corporation's stock, long-term debt, and retained earnings.


   Types of Capitalization  

There are two key types of capitalizations, one of which is applied in accounting and the other in finance.


  Accounting  

In accounting, the matching principle requires companies to record expenses in the same accounting period in which the related revenue is incurred. For example, office supplies are generally expensed in the period when they are incurred since they are expected to be consumed within a short period of time. However, some larger office equipment may provide a benefit to the business over more than one accounting period.



These items are fixed assets, such as computers, cars, and office buildings. The costs of these items are recorded on the general ledger as the historical cost of the asset. Therefore, these costs are said to be capitalized, not expensed. Capitalized assets are not expensed in full against earnings in the current accounting period. A company can make a large purchase but expense it over many years, depending on the type of property, plant, or equipment involved.



As the assets are used up over time to generate revenue for the company, a portion of the cost is allocated to each accounting period. This process is known as depreciation (or amortization for intangible assets). For leased equipment, capitalization is the conversion of an operating lease to a capital lease by classifying the leased asset as a purchased asset, which is included on the balance sheet as part of the company's assets.



The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new Accounting Standards Update (ASU) in 2016 that requires all leases over twelve months to be both capitalized as an asset and recorded as a liability on the lessee's books, to fairly present both the rights and obligations of the lease.






Some types of long-term assets are capitalized but not depreciated. For example, the acquisition of land is capitalized. However, that land is not depreciated but is carried on the balance sheet at historical cost. The company may be required to reflect fair market value adjustments, though it may not record accumulated depreciation against the asset.


  Finance  

Another aspect of capitalization refers to the company's capital structure. Capitalization can refer to the book value cost of capital, which is the sum of a company's long-term debt, stock, and retained earnings. The alternative to the book value is the market value.



The market value cost of capital depends on the price of the company's stock. It is calculated by multiplying the price of the company’s shares by the number of shares outstanding in the market.



If the total number of shares outstanding is 1 billion and the stock is currently priced at $10, the market capitalization is $10 billion. Companies with a high market capitalization are referred to as large caps.



A company can be overcapitalized or undercapitalized. Undercapitalization occurs when earnings are not enough to cover the cost of capital, such as interest payments to bondholders or dividend payments to shareholders. Overcapitalization occurs when there's no need for outside capital because profits are high and earnings were underestimated.






Companies can only raise capital through a few methods; the long-term goal of a company is to be overcapitalized as it can return funds to investors, invest for growth, and still earn a profit.


   Capitalization Thresholds  

Generally, a company will set "capitalization thresholds." Any cash outlay over that amount will be capitalized if it is appropriate. Companies will set their own capitalization threshold because materiality varies by company size and industry. For example, a local mom-and-pop store may have a $500 capitalization threshold, while a global technology company may set its capitalization threshold at $10,000.



Financial statements can be manipulated when a cost is wrongly capitalized or expensed. If a cost is incorrectly expensed, net income in the current period will be lower than it otherwise should be. The company will also pay lower taxes in the current period. If a cost is incorrectly capitalized, net income in the current period will be higher than it otherwise should be. In addition, assets on the balance sheet will be overstated.




What Does Capitalization Mean in Accounting?
Capitalization is an accounting rule used to recognize a cash outlay as an asset on the balance sheet—rather than an expense on the income statement. The cost of fixed assets, such as computers, cars, and office buildings, are recorded on the general ledger as the historical cost of the asset and not expensed in full against earnings in the current accounting period. These costs are said to be capitalized, not expensed.




How Does Capitalization Impact Leased Equipment?
For leased equipment, capitalization is the conversion of an operating lease to a capital lease by classifying the leased asset as a purchased asset, which is included on the balance sheet as part of the company's assets. Leases over twelve months must be capitalized as an asset and recorded as a liability on the lessee's books.




What Does Capitalization Mean in Finance?
In finance, capitalization is a quantitative assessment of a firm's capital structure. Here it can refer to the book value cost of capital, which is the sum of a company's long-term debt, stock, and retained earnings. The alternative to the book value is the market value or market capitalization.




What Costs Can Be Capitalized?
Companies often set internal thresholds that establish what materiality levels exist for capitalizable assets. In general, costs that benefit future periods should be capitalized and expensed so that the expense of the asset is recognized in the same period as when the benefit is received.In general, examples of costs that can be capitalized include development costs, construction costs, or capital assets such as equipment or vehicles.




What Is a Capitalization Strategy?
When a small company starts, it must create a capitalization strategy that outlines how the company will use its scarce resources to start operations. Based on initial forecasts, business owners may project how much financing they need to ensure profitability and sustainability until the company can be self-sustaining. Whether it is raising equity from a private investor, applying for debt, or contributing personal capital, these funding sources combined comprise of the capitalization strategy.


   The Bottom Line  

Capitalization refers to a few different things across business. In accounting, capitalization refers to long-term assets with future benefit. Instead of expensing costs as they occur, they may be depreciated over time as the benefit is received. In finance, capitalization refers to the financing structure and sourcing of funds.
What Is the Capitalization Rate?  

The capitalization rate (also known as cap rate) is used in the world of commercial real estate to indicate the rate of return that is expected to be generated on a real estate investment property.



This measure is computed based on the net income which the property is expected to generate and is calculated by dividing net operating income by property asset value and is expressed as a percentage. It is used to estimate the investor's potential return on their investment in the real estate market.



While the cap rate can be useful for quickly comparing the relative value of similar real estate investments in the market, it should not be used as the sole indicator of an investment’s strength because it does not take into account leverage, the time value of money, and future cash flows from property improvements, among other factors.





Key Takeaways

The capitalization rate is calculated by dividing a property's net operating income by the current market value.This ratio, expressed as a percentage, is an estimation of an investor's potential return on a real estate investment.The cap rate is most useful as a comparison of the relative value of similar real estate investments.


   Understanding the Capitalization Rate  

The cap rate is the most popular measure through which real estate investments are assessed for their profitability and return potential. The cap rate simply represents the yield of a property over a one-year time horizon assuming the property is purchased on cash and not on loan. The capitalization rate indicates the property’s intrinsic, natural, and un-levered rate of return.






   Formula for the Capitalization Rate  

Several versions exist for the computation of the capitalization rate. In the most popular formula, the capitalization rate of a real estate investment is calculated by dividing the property's net operating income (NOI) by the current market value. Mathematically,



Capitalization Rate = Net Operating Income / Current Market Value



where,



The net operating income is the (expected) annual income generated by the property (like rentals) and is arrived at by deducting all the expenses incurred for managing the property. These expenses include the cost paid towards the regular upkeep of the facility as well as the property taxes.



The current market value of the asset is the present-day value of the property as per the prevailing market rates.



In another version, the figure is computed based on the original capital cost or the acquisition cost of a property.



Capitalization Rate = Net Operating Income / Purchase Price



However, the second version is not very popular for two reasons. First, it gives unrealistic results for old properties that were purchased several years/decades ago at low prices, and second, it cannot be applied to the inherited property as their purchase price is zero, making the division impossible.



Additionally, since property prices fluctuate widely, the first version using the current market price is a more accurate representation as compared to the second one which uses the fixed value original purchase price.



Those interested in learning more about capitalization rates may want to consider enrolling in one of the best online real estate schools.


   Interpreting the Capitalization Rate  

Since cap rates are based on the projected estimates of the future income, they are subject to high variance. It then becomes important to understand what constitutes a good cap rate for an investment property.



The rate also indicates the duration of time it will take to recover the invested amount in a property. For instance, a property having a cap rate of 10% will take around 10 years for recovering the investment.



Different cap rates among different properties, or different cap rates across different time horizons on the same property, represent different levels of risk. A look at the formula indicates that the cap rate value will be higher for properties that generate higher net operating income and have a lower valuation, and vice versa.






There are no clear ranges for a good or bad cap rate, and they largely depend on the context of the property and the market.



Say, there are two properties that are similar in all attributes except for being geographically apart. One is in a posh city center area while the other is on the outskirts of the city.



All things being equal, the first property will generate a higher rental compared to the second one, but those will be partially offset by the higher cost of maintenance and higher taxes. The city center property will have a relatively lower cap rate compared to the second one owing to its significantly high market value.



It indicates that a lower value cap rate corresponds to better valuation and a better prospect of returns with a lower level of risk. On the other hand, a higher value of cap rate implies relatively lower prospects of return on property investment, and hence a higher level of risk.



While the above hypothetical example makes it an easy choice for an investor to go with the property in the city center, real-world scenarios may not be that straightforward. The investor assessing a property on the basis of the cap rate faces the challenging task to determine the suitable cap rate for a given level of risk.


   Gordon Model Representation for Cap Rate  

Another representation of the cap rate comes from the Gordon Growth Model, which is also called the dividend discount model (DDM). It is a method for calculating the intrinsic value of a company’s stock price independent of the current market conditions, and the stock value is calculated as the present value of a stock's future dividends. Mathematically,



Stock Value = Expected Annual Dividend Cash Flow / (Investor's Required Rate of Return - Expected Dividend Growth Rate)



Rearranging the equation and generalizing the formula beyond dividend,



(Required Rate of Return - Expected Growth Rate) = Expected Cash Flow / Asset Value



The above representation matches the basic formula of the capitalization rate mentioned in the earlier section. The expected cash flow value represents the net operating income and the asset value matches the current market price of the property.



This leads to the capitalization rate being equivalent to the difference between the required rate of return and the expected growth rate. That is, the cap rate is simply the required rate of return minus the growth rate.



This can be used to assess the valuation of a property for a given rate of return expected by the investor. For instance, say the net operating income of a property is $50,000, and it is expected to rise by 2% annually.



If the investor’s expected rate of return is 10% per annum, then the net cap rate will come to (10% - 2%) = 8%. Using it in the above formula, the asset valuation comes to ($50,000 / 8%) = $625,000.


   Limitations of the Cap Rate  

Although capitalization rate can be a useful metric for properties that provide stable income, it is less reliable if a property has irregular or inconsistent cash flows. In these circumstances, a discounted cash flow model might be a better way to measure the returns from an investment property.



The capitalization rate is only useful to the extent that a property's income will remain stable over the long term. It does not take into account future risks, such as depreciation, or structural changes in the rental market that could cause income fluctuations. Investors should take these risks into account when relying on cap rate calculations.


   What Is a Good Cap Rate?  

There is no single value for what makes an "ideal" capitalization rate, and investors should consider their own risk appetites when evaluating a property. Generally, a high capitalization rate will indicate a higher level of risk, while a lower capitalization rate indicates lower returns but lower risk.



That said, many analysts consider a "good" cap rate to be around 5% to 10%, while a 4% cap rate indicates lower risk but a longer timeline to recoup an investment. There are also other factors to consider, like the features of a local property market, and it is important not to rely on cap rate or any other single metric.


   What Affects the Cap Rate?  

There are many potential market factors that can affect the capitalization rate of a property. As with other rental properties, location plays a major factor in determining the returns of commercial properties, with high-traffic areas likely to come with a higher capitalization rate.



It is also important to consider other features of the local market, such as competing properties. Generally, properties in a large, well-developed market will tend to have lower capitalization rates, due to competitive pressures from other businesses. Future trends, such as local market growth, can also affect the long-term capitalization rate for a property.



Finally, the amount of capital you invest in a property can also affect the cap rate. A renovation that makes a property more attractive could command higher rents, increasing the owner's operating income.


   Examples of the Capitalization Rate  

Assume that John has $1 million and he is considering investing in one of the two available investment options: one, he can invest in government-issued Treasury bonds that offer a nominal 3% annual interest and are considered the safest investments, or two, he can purchase a commercial building that has multiple tenants who are expected to pay regular rent.



In the second case, assume that the total rent received per year is $90,000 and the investor needs to pay a total of $20,000 towards various maintenance costs and property taxes. It leaves the net income from the property investment at $70,000. Assume that during the first year, the property value remains steady at the original buy price of $1 million.



The capitalization rate will be computed as (Net Operating Income/Property Value) = $70,000/$1 million = 7%.



This return of 7% generated from the property investment fares better than the standard return of 3% available from the risk-free Treasury bonds. The extra 4% represents the return for the risk taken by the investor by investing in the property market as against investing in the safest Treasury bonds which come with zero risk.


  Capitalization Rate on Property  

Property investment is risky, and there can be several scenarios where the return, as represented by the capitalization rate measure, can vary widely.



For instance, a few of the tenants may move out and the rental income from the property may diminish to $40,000. Reducing the $20,000 towards various maintenance costs and property taxes, and assuming that property value stays at $1 million, the capitalization rate comes to ($20,000 / $1 million) = 2%. This value is less than the return available from risk-free bonds.



In another scenario, assume that the rental income stays at the original $90,000, but the maintenance cost and/or the property tax increases significantly, to say $50,000. The capitalization rate will then be ($40,000/$1 million) = 4%.






Pay attention to rates. In general, cap rates increase when interest rates go up.



In another case, if the current market value of the property itself diminishes, to say $800,000, with the rental income and various costs remaining the same, the capitalization rate will increase to $70,000/$800,000 = 8.75%.



In essence, varying levels of income that get generated from the property, expenses related to the property, and the current market valuation of the property can significantly change the capitalization rate.



The surplus return, which is theoretically available to property investors over and above the Treasury bond investments, can be attributed to the associated risks that lead to the above-mentioned scenarios. The risk factors include:



Age, location, and status of the property
Property type: multifamily, office, industrial, retail, or recreational
Tenants’ solvency and regular receipts of rentals
Term and structure of tenant lease(s)
The overall market rate of the property and the factors affecting its valuation
Macroeconomic fundamentals of the region as well as factors impacting tenants’ businesses




What Should My Capitalization Rate Be?
The capitalization rate for an investment property should be between 4% and 10%. The exact number will depend on the location of the property as well as the rate of return required to make the investment worthwhile.




Is a Higher or Lower Capitalization Rate Better?
Generally, the capitalization rate can be viewed as a measure of risk. So determining whether a higher or lower cap rate is better will depend on the investor and their risk profile. A higher cap rate means that the investment holds more risk whereas a low cap risk means an investment holds less risk.




What Is the Difference Between the Capitalization Rate and Return on Investment?
Return on investment indicates what the potential return of an investment could be over a specific time horizon. The capitalization rate will tell you what the return of an investment is currently or what it should actually be.


   The Bottom Line  

The capitalization rate is used to measure the profitability of commercial rental properties. A high cap rate indicates a relatively high income, relative to the size of the initial investment. However, there are also other factors to consider, such as risk and local market dynamics. Investors should be careful to consider a wide range of metrics in addition to the capitalization rate.
What Is a Capitalization Table?  

A capitalization table, also known as a cap table, is a spreadsheet or table that shows the equity capitalization for a company. A capitalization table is most commonly utilized for startups and early-stage businesses but all types of companies may use it as well. In general, the capitalization table is an intricate breakdown of a company’s shareholders’ equity.



Cap tables often include all of a company’s equity ownership capital, such as common equity shares, preferred equity shares, warrants, and convertible equity.





Key Takeaways

A capitalization table is a table showing the equity ownership capitalization for a company.The capitalization table is essential for financial decisions involving equity ownership, market capitalization, and market value.Capitalization tables help private companies maintain the calculation of their market value. In the private market, they are also important for shareholder reporting and new capital issuance marketing.


   Understanding a Capitalization Table  

A basic capitalization table lists out each type of equity ownership capital, the individual investors, and the share prices. A more complex table may also include details on potential new funding sources, mergers and acquisitions, public offerings, or other hypothetical transactions.



Capitalization tables are typically used privately by private companies to provide information on a company’s investors and market value. Below is one example of a capitalization table.












Corporate Finance Institute (CFI)



Overall, a capitalization table shows the total market value of a company and its components. As a key point of reference for business managers, the capitalization table is considered in every financial decision that has an impact on market capitalization and the company’s market value. As such, it is important for the capitalization table to be accurate, customized to the business needs, and regularly maintained for decision making based on the most current information.






A capitalization table is a simple, organized document that displays the total ownership capitalization of a firm.


   Creating and Maintaining a Capitalization Table  

Comparatively, it can be viewed in conjunction with the shareholders’ equity portion of the balance sheet, which also details the equity capital structuring of a firm.



The capitalization table shows each investors’ equity capital stake in the business, which is calculated by multiplying the share price by the number of shares owned. In most cases, the names of the security owners will be listed on the Y-axis and the types of securities on the X-axis. In addition, all holdings of each investor should be in a single row.



The listing of investors can be done in a few different ways and may depend on the targeted audience. Some capitalization tables may list investors by founders first, followed by executives and key employees with equity stakes, then other investors, such as angel investors, venture capital firms, and others who are involved in the business plan. Alternatively, a capitalization table may choose to list investors in descending order by ownership, showing the largest holders at the top.


   Special Considerations  

Companies are constantly evolving, and so their capitalization tables must be continuously updated as well. For example, startups run several funding rounds to support capital needs. They also issue stock options to attract talent. All of these actions change the capitalization table.



Likewise, terminating options when an employee leaves the business, letting options expire, having an investor exercise vested options, or having an investor redeem, transfer, or sell shares are also instances that alter the table.




Why Do Startups Need Cap Tables?
Startup companies generally have only a small number of equity owners. These often include the founders, friends and family of the founders, and angel investors. Keeping track of who owns what stake in the new company is important as it grows and raises capital from other sources such as venture capitalists, and ultimately to the public via an IPO. The cap table will be updated after each subsequent funding round, showing how ownership becomes diluted and spread across new owners as it grows.




What Information Does the Cap Table Keep Track of?
The cap table will keep track of stock ownership as well as convertible securities, warrants and options, and stock compensation grants. This allows for a fully-diluted picture of equity ownership. The cap table will show who owns how many shares (or rights), the current market value, and the proportion of the ownership as an overall percentage,




Are Cap Tables Public Information?
There are no U.S. regulations mandating that private companies disclose their cap tables. Startups may want to limit the visibility of their cap tables, and only make them available to serious inquiries from potential investors. Once a company goes public, however, a list of insiders and institutional shareholders is made available.
What Is to Capitalize?  

To capitalize is to record a cost or expense on the balance sheet for the purposes of delaying full recognition of the expense. In general, capitalizing expenses is beneficial as companies acquiring new assets with long-term lifespans can amortize or depreciate the costs. This process is known as capitalization.



Capitalization may also refer to the concept of converting some idea into a business or investment. In finance, capitalization is a quantitative assessment of a firm's capital structure. When used this way, it sometimes also means to monetize.





Key Takeaways

To capitalize is to record a cost or expense on the balance sheet for the purposes of delaying full recognition of the expense.Capitalization is used in corporate accounting to match the timing of cash flows.In finance, capitalization is a reference to a company's capital structure, or the total of a company's long-term debt, stock, and retained earnings.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Understanding How to Capitalize  

One of the most important principles of accounting is the matching principle. The matching principle states that expenses should be recorded for the period incurred regardless of when payment (e.g., cash) is made. Recognizing expenses in the period incurred allows businesses to identify amounts spent to generate revenue. For assets that are immediately consumed, this process is simple and sensible.



However, large assets that provide a future economic benefit present a different opportunity. For example, a company purchases a delivery truck for daily operations. The truck is expected to provide value over a period of 12 years. Instead of expensing the entire cost of the truck when purchased, accounting rules allow companies to write off the cost of the asset over its useful life (12 years).



In other words, the asset is written off as it is used. Most companies have an asset threshold, in which assets valued over a certain amount are automatically treated as a capitalized asset.


   Benefits of Capitalization  

Capitalizing assets has many benefits. Because long-term assets are costly, expensing the cost over future periods reduces significant fluctuations in income, especially for small firms. Many lenders require companies to maintain a specific debt-to-equity ratio. If large long-term assets were expensed immediately, it could compromise the required ratio for existing loans or could prevent firms from receiving new loans.



Also, capitalizing expenses increases a company's asset balance without affecting its liability balance. As a result, many financial ratios will appear favorable. Despite this benefit, it should not be the motivation for capitalizing on an expense.


   Depreciation  

The process of writing off an asset over its useful life is referred to as depreciation, which is used for fixed assets, such as equipment. Amortization is used for intangible assets, such as intellectual property. Depreciation deducts a certain value from the asset every year until the full value of the asset is written off the balance sheet.


  Income Statement  

Depreciation is an expense recorded on the income statement; it is not to be confused with "accumulated depreciation," which is a balance sheet contra account. The income statement depreciation expense is the amount of depreciation expensed for the period indicated on the income statement. 



The accumulated depreciation balance sheet contra account is the cumulative total of depreciation expense recorded on the income statements from the asset's acquisition until the time indicated on the balance sheet.


  Leased Equipment  

For leased equipment, capitalization is the conversion of an operating lease to a capital lease by classifying the leased asset as a purchased asset, which is recorded on the balance sheet as part of the company's assets. The value of the asset that will be assigned is either its fair market value or the present value of the lease payments, whichever is less. Also, the amount of principal owed is recorded as a liability on the balance sheet.






There are strict regulatory guidelines and best practices for capitalizing assets and expenses.


   Market Capitalization  

Another aspect of capitalization refers to the company's capital structure. Capitalization can refer to the book value of capital, which is the sum of a company's long-term debt, stock, and retained earnings, which represents a cumulative savings of profit or net income.



The alternative to the book value is market value. The market value of capital depends on the price of the company's stock. It is calculated by multiplying the price of the company’s stock by the number of equity shares outstanding in the market. If the total number of shares outstanding is 1 billion, and the stock is currently priced at $10, the market capitalization is $10 billion.



Companies with a high market capitalization are referred to as large caps; companies with medium market capitalization are referred to as mid-caps, while companies with small capitalization are referred to as small caps.



It is possible to be overcapitalized or undercapitalized. Overcapitalization occurs when earnings are not enough to cover the cost of capital, such as interest payments to bondholders, or dividend payments to shareholders. Dividends are cash payments made to shareholders by companies. Undercapitalization occurs when there's no need for outside capital because profits are high and earnings were underestimated.


   Capitalized Cost vs. Expense  

When trying to discern what a capitalized cost is, it’s first important to make the distinction between what is defined as a cost and an expense in the world of accounting. A cost on any transaction is the amount of money used in exchange for an asset.



A company buying a forklift would mark such a purchase as a cost. An expense is a monetary value leaving the company; this would include something like paying the electricity bill or rent on a building.






The use of the word capital to refer to a person's wealth comes from the Medieval Latin capitale, for "stock, property."


   Limitations of Capitalizing  

To capitalize assets is an important piece of modern financial accounting and is necessary to run a business. However, financial statements can be manipulated—for example, when a cost is expensed instead of capitalized. If this occurs, current income will be understated while it will be inflated in future periods over which additional depreciation should have been charged.




What Is Capitalization in Accounting?
In accounting, typically a purchase is recorded in the time accounting period in which it was bought. However, some expenses, such as office equipment, may be usable for several accounting periods beyond the one in which the purchase was made. These fixed assets are recorded on the general ledger as the historical cost of the asset. As a result, these costs are considered to be capitalized, not expensed. A portion of the cost is then recorded during each quarter of the item's usable life in a process called depreciation. 




What Is Capitalization in Finance?
In finance, capitalization is the company's capital structure. It is the book value cost of capital, or the total of a company's long-term debt, stock, and retained earnings. A company that is said to be undercapitalized does not have the capital to finance all obligations. Overcapitalization occurs when outside capital is determined to be unnecessary as profits were high enough and earnings were underestimated. 




What Kinds of Costs Can Be Capitalized?
Any costs that benefit future periods should be capitalized and expensed, so as to reflect the lifespan of the item or items being purchased. Costs that can be capitalized include development costs, construction costs, or the purchase of capital assets such as vehicles or equipment.


   The Bottom Line  

Capitalizing in business is to record an expense on the balance sheet in a way that delays the full recognition of the expense, often over a number of quarters or years. The process is used for the purchase of fixed assets that have a long usable life, such as equipment or vehicles. In finance, capitalization is also an assessment of a company's capital structure.
What Is a Capitalized Cost?  

A capitalized cost is an expense added to the cost basis of a fixed asset on a company's balance sheet. Capitalized costs are incurred when building or purchasing fixed assets. Capitalized costs are not expensed in the period they were incurred but recognized over a period of time via depreciation or amortization.





Key Takeaways


With capitalized costs, the monetary value isn’t leaving the company with the purchase of an item, as it is retained in the form of a fixed or intangible asset.
Capitalized costs are depreciated or amortized over time instead of being expensed immediately.
The purpose of capitalizing costs is to better line up the cost of using an asset with the length of time in which the asset is generating revenue.
Companies each have a dollar value threshold for what it considers an expense versus a capitalizable cost.
Employee salaries and bonuses may be capitalized in certain situations.













Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Capitalized Costs  

When capitalizing costs, a company is following the matching principle of accounting. The matching principle seeks to record expenses in the same period as the related revenues. In other words, the goal is to match the cost of an asset to the periods in which it is used and is therefore generating revenue, as opposed to when the initial expense was incurred.



Long-term assets will be generating revenue throughout their useful life. Thus, their costs may be depreciated or amortized over a long period. According to the Internal Revenue Service, there are many different kinds of business assets that you must fully capitalize the costs of, these include, for example, land, buildings, furniture, machinery, trucks, and freight and installation charges. Two other examples are patents and franchise rights.



For example, expenses incurred during the construction of a warehouse are not expensed immediately. The costs associated with building the warehouse, including labor costs and financing costs, can be added to the carrying value of the fixed asset on the balance sheet. These capitalized costs will be expensed through depreciation in future periods when revenues generated from the factory output are also recognized.


  Software Development as a Capitalized Cost  

Another example is software development. Out of the three phases of software development—preliminary project stage, application development stage, and post-implementation/operation stage—only the costs from the application development stage should be capitalized.



Examples of the costs a company would capitalize include salaries of employees working on the project, their bonuses, debt insurance costs, and data conversion costs from the old software. These costs could be capitalized only as long as the project would need additional testing before application.


   Example of Capitalized Cost  

Take the example of a coffee roasting facility. Some of the likely costs of building and operating it would include customizing the facility for the specifics of the business, purchasing roasting and packing equipment, and installing equipment. In addition to the machinery and hardware, the company would need to buy green coffee to roast, and it also needs to pay its employees to roast and sell that coffee. Further costs would include marketing and advertising their product, sales, distribution, and so on.



Items that would show up as an expense in the company’s general ledger include utilities, pest control, employee wages, and any item under a certain capitalization threshold. These are considered expenses because the value of running water, no bugs, and operational staff can be directly linked to one accounting period. Certain items, like a $200 laminator or a $50 chair, would be considered an expense because of their relatively low cost, even though they may be used over multiple periods. Each company has its dollar value threshold for what it considers an expense rather than a capitalizable cost.



The roasting facility’s packaging machine, roaster, and floor scales would be considered capitalized costs on the company’s books. The monetary value isn’t leaving the company with the purchase of these items. When the roasting company spends $40,000 on a coffee roaster, the value is retained in the equipment as a company asset. The price of shipping and installing equipment is included as a capitalized cost on the company’s books. The costs of a shipping container, transportation from the farm to the warehouse, and taxes could also be considered part of the capitalized cost. These expenses were necessary to get the building set up for its intended use.



Capitalized costs are originally recorded on the balance sheet as an asset at their historical cost. These capitalized costs move from the balance sheet to the income statement, expensed through depreciation or amortization. For example, the $40,000 coffee roaster from above may have a useful life of seven years and a $5,000 salvage value at the end of that period. Depreciation expense related to the coffee roaster each year would be $5,000 [($40,000 historical cost - $5,000 salvage value) / 7 years].


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Capitalized Cost  

When high dollar value items are capitalized, expenses are effectively smoothed out over multiple periods. This allows a company to not present large jumps in expense in any one period from an expensive purchase of property, plant, or equipment. The company will initially show higher profits than it would have if the cost were expensed in full. However, this also means that it will have to pay more in taxes initially.



Capitalizing costs inappropriately can lead investors to believe that a company’s profit margins are higher than they are. Warning signs that a company may be capitalizing costs inappropriately include:



Surprising or unrealistic profit margins combined with sudden drops in free cash flow
Increases in capital expenditures
Rapidly growing fixed or intangible assets recorded on the books 




What Are the Advantages of Capitalized Costs?
When a company capitalizes on its costs it can free up cash flow, provide the company with expenses spread out of multiple quarters, and ensure the company doesn't have to report large expenses in the same year.




What Are the Disadvantages of Capitalized Costs?
Some disadvantage capitalized cost includes misleading investors of a company's profit margins, drops in free cash flow, and potentially higher tax bills.




What Costs Can Be Capitalized?
Capitalized costs can include intangible asset expenses can be capitalized, like patents, software creation, and trademarks. In addition, capitalized costs include transportation, labor, sales taxes, and materials.
What Is Capitalized Interest?  

Capitalized interest is the cost of borrowing to acquire or construct a long-term asset. Unlike an interest expense incurred for any other purpose, capitalized interest is not expensed immediately on the income statement of a company's financial statements. Instead, firms capitalize it, meaning the interest paid increases the cost basis of the related long-term asset on the balance sheet. Capitalized interest shows up in installments on a company's income statement through periodic depreciation expense recorded on the associated long-term asset over its useful life.





Key Takeaways

Capitalized interest is the cost of borrowing to obtain a long-term asset.Unlike typical interest expenses, capitalized interest is not expensed immediately on a company's income statement.Because many companies finance long-term assets with debt, companies are allowed to expense the assets over the long term.By capitalizing the interest expense, companies are able to generate revenue from the asset in order to pay for it over time.Capital interest is expensed over time as part of the depreciation process of the asset.


   Understanding Capitalized Interest  

Capitalized interest is part of the historical cost of acquiring assets that will benefit a company over many years. Because many companies finance the construction of long-term assets with debt, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) allow firms to avoid expensing interest on such debt and include it on their balance sheets as part of the historical cost of long-term assets.



Typical examples of long-term assets for which capitalizing interest is allowed include various production facilities, real estate, and ships. Capitalizing interest is not permitted for inventories that are manufactured repetitively in large quantities. U.S. tax laws also allow the capitalization of interest, which provides a tax deduction in future years through a periodic depreciation expense.





Important

In accordance with the matching principle, capitalizing interest ties the costs of a long-term asset to the earnings generated by the same asset over its useful life.


   Capitalized Interest vs. Expensed Interest  

From the perspective of accrual accounting, capitalizing interest helps tie the costs of using a long-term asset to earnings generated by the asset in the same periods of use. Capitalized interest can only be booked if its impact on a company's financial statements is material. Otherwise, interest capitalization is not required, and it should be expensed immediately.



When booked, capitalized interest has no immediate effect on a company's income statement, and instead, it appears on the income statement in subsequent periods through depreciation expense. The entry to record capitalized interest is a debit to the capitalized asset account and credit to cash (assuming the interest is paid); otherwise the credit is to the open liability until interest is paid.



In the long-term, both capitalized interest and expensed interest will have the same impact on a company's financial statements. It is important for a company to realize that short-term cash obligation may also be the same; if interest is due immediately, there will be the same cash outlay regardless of how interest is recorded. The only difference between capitalized interest and expensed interest is the timing in which the expense shows up on the income statement.


   Capitalized Interest vs. Accrued Interest  

Accrued interest is the amount of interest that has accumulated on a loan since the last payment was made. For example, if a borrower has a monthly payment on a loan and they miss a payment, interest will continue to accrue on the loan until the borrower makes their next payment. The interest that is due but has not yet been paid during that time is referred to as accrued interest.



In some cases, accrued interest and capitalized interest can be the same. For example, if an unpaid amount of interest is added to the balance of the principal, the amount of accrued interest is considered the same as the amount of capitalized interest.



However, the specific treatment of accrued interest does not always prevail itself to being capitalized. For example, a missed payment of interest could simply be a period expense that is immediately recognized on the income statement. In this case, the accrued interest that is due is not capitalized interest but instead set to be expensed immediately.






Interest is to be capitalized for assets being constructed, asset intended for sale or lease as discrete projects, or investments accounted for by the equity method while specific investee activities occur.


   Capitalized Interest and Student Loans  

Capitalized interest is also present in many student loans. Capitalized interest on student loans is the interest that accrues on a loan and is added to the principal balance of the loan. This can happen when the borrower is not making payments on the loan, and interest continues to accrue as is the case most often while the student is attending scholl.



In the case of student loans, the borrower may be in any sort of deferment period. However, interest can still accrue on the loan during that time. In some cases, this interest is then added to the principal balance of the loan, and the borrower is then responsible for paying interest on the higher principal balance (i.e. interest on interest).



It's important to note that not all student loans accrue interest during a deferment period, and some loans may have interest subsidies that cover the interest during that time. However, student borrowers must understand the implications of capitalized interest and respect the importance of how capitalized interest can affect their loan balance and repayment plan.


   Example of Capitalized Interest  

Consider a company that builds a small production facility worth $5 million with a useful life of 20 years. It borrows the amount to finance this project at an interest rate of 10%. The project will take a year to complete to put the building to its intended use, and the company is allowed to capitalize its annual interest expense on this project, which amounts to $500,000.



The company capitalizes interest by recording a debit entry of $500,000 to a fixed asset account and an offsetting credit entry to cash. At the end of construction, the company's production facility has a book value of $5.5 million, consisting of $5 million in construction costs and $500,000 in capitalized interest.



In the next year, when the production facility is used, the company books a straight-line depreciation expense of $275,000 ($5.5 million of the facility's book value divided by 20 years of useful life) of which $25,000 ($500,000 of capitalized interest divided by 20 years) is attributable to the capitalized interest.




How Does Capitalized Interest Work?
Capitalized interest is simply an interest assessment charged against an outstanding principal balance. However, instead of expensing the charge right away, the interest is capitalized as part of the cost of creating a long-term asset. Companies recognize capitalized interest by including it in the cost basis of the asset being generated and depreciating the asset over time.




When Should Interest Be Capitalized?
The timing of interest being capitalized will greatly vary depending on the interest itself. For student loans, interest is capitalized as part of the loan agreement and type of loan. This may also depend on the type of education (undergraduate vs. graduate) being pursued. On the other hand, interest is often capitalized during construction when an asset's development is underway.




Why Would You Want to Capitalize Interest?
Companies may be interested in capitalizing interest if they want to defer the interest expense deduction to future periods. This is usually favorable as the company will likely have rent income from the asset being developed in the same period the interest expense could be taken. Alternatively, if all interest was expensed upfront, the company might not make the most use of the deduction as it may not have income to offset the expense against.




How Do You Calculate Capitalized Interest?
Capitalized interest is calculated the same way as any other type of interest. The prevailing rate of interest is multiplied by the prevailing principal balance of debt for a given period, and considerations are made for the number of days outstanding. This balance is then added to the original principal balance amount, so it may be wise to sometimes track the original principal balance and the balance of interest that has accumulated.


   The Bottom Line  

Capitalized interest is the unpaid amount of interest that is added to the principal balance of a loan. Capital interest occurs when the borrower is not making payments on the loan and interest continues to accrue. When the interest is added to the principal balance, the borrower is then responsible for paying interest on the higher balance in future periods as the basis for the calculation of interest is higher. For student loans, borrowers may experience capitalized interest during deferment periods when they don't need to paying interest during school.
What Is Capitulation?  

Capitulation in finance describes the dramatic surge of selling pressure in a declining market or security that marks a mass surrender by investors. The resulting dramatic drop in market prices can mark the end of a decline, since those who didn't sell during a panic are unlikely to do so soon after.



Capitulation typically follows significant downturns in price, which can take place even as many investors remain bullish. As the downturn accelerates, it reaches a point where the selling by the investors unwilling to suffer further losses snowballs, leading to a dramatic plunge in price.



The heavy trading volume accompanying the decline shakes out "weak hands"—the investors lacking conviction—and replaces them with more risk-tolerant holders who may not have suffered prior losses and were willing to buy at the end of a protracted decline capped with a dramatic drop.



Traders look for unusually high trading volume accompanying sharp declines in price to signal capitulation. They try to anticipate the surest sign of a capitulation: the rebound in price that follows once the panic selling has run its course.





Key Takeaways

Capitulation happens when a significant proportion of investors succumbs to fear and sells over a short period of time, causing the price of a security or a market to drop sharply amid high trading volume.Capitulation marks a short-term low in the price and is followed by at least a relief rally. Until the price rebounds significantly, there can be no assurance the apparent "capitulation" won't be followed by additional dramatic drops.Capitulation causes heavy turnover among investors, enabling a rebound by replacing risk-averse sellers with risk-tolerant buyers, but it can't guarantee those buyers won't eventually sell even lower.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Capitulation  

Capitulation means surrender. In financial markets, capitulation marks the point in time when a large enough proportion of investors simultaneously give up hopes of recouping recent losses, typically as the decline in prices gathers speed.



Suppose a stock you own dropped by 30% but you were sure it would bounce back. Imagine it then fell another 20% but it was clear the fundamentals were solid. Maybe you bought a little more on the dip. Now imagine the same stock is down 15% intraday and the grind of daily disappointment has given way to certain knowledge that you bought a loser that could go even lower. Selling the stock as a result would be an act of capitulation.





Important

Investors can only identify capitulations with certainty after they have occurred and the price has rebounded.



Note that the stock was already down 15% in a day, suggesting others felt the same. While misery may like company, a capitulation requires a panicked crowd.



Capitulation mean the sellers were "wrong" or the buyers "right." While a short-term rebound follows capitulation by definition, it doesn't mean prices can't go even lower later, if future reverses turn the new "strong hands" into sellers.



Bear markets can feature repeat high-volume plunges in price and premature calls of capitulation. The truth is that the condition can be diagnosed conclusively only in hindsight, if the price rebounds.






   Using Technical Analysis to Identify Capitulations  

Capitulations often signal major turning points in the price action of underlying securities and financial instruments. Technical analysts use candlestick charts to identify capitulation patterns. One such pattern is the hammer candle, which marks a trading session in which the price drops well below its opening level but reverses to regain much of the loss by the close. When accompanied by heavy volume, it suggests the decline reached a climax.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2020



Conversely, a shooting star candle describing a session in which price rallies sharply but then reverses to close near opening level often forms at the end of a buying spree, indicating a top is in place.


   Real World Example of Capitulation  

While capitulations can be hard to tell apart from run-of-the-mill high-volume declines as they happen, they're easy to spot with the benefit of hindsight: just look for a significant rebound in the price.



On March 18, 2020, the S&P 500 index was down nearly 10% from the prior day's close amid the COVID-19 market collapse, only to reverse and close down 5.2% on the day and 1.6% below where it opened. That wasn't quite capitulation, however, in retrospect.



On March 23, 2020, the S&P 500 plunged nearly 5% intraday at its lows but managed to close with a loss of "just" 2.9%. We know that was capitulation because the index went on to gain 17% over the next week.
What Are Carbon Credits?  

Carbon credits, also known as carbon offsets, are permits that allow the owner to emit a certain amount of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases. One credit permits the emission of one ton of carbon dioxide or the equivalent in other greenhouse gases.



The carbon credit is half of a so-called cap-and-trade program. Companies that pollute are awarded credits that allow them to continue to pollute up to a certain limit, which is reduced periodically. Meanwhile, the company may sell any unneeded credits to another company that needs them. Private companies are thus doubly incentivized to reduce greenhouse emissions. First, they must spend money on extra credits if their emissions exceed the cap. Second, they can make money by reducing their emissions and selling their excess allowances.



Proponents of the carbon credit system say that it leads to measurable, verifiable emission reductions from certified climate action projects, and that these projects reduce, remove, or avoid greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.





Key Takeaways

Carbon credits were devised as a mechanism to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.Companies get a set number of credits, which decline over time, and they can sell any excess to another company.Carbon credits create a monetary incentive for companies to reduce their carbon emissions. Those that cannot easily reduce emissions can still operate, at a higher financial cost.Carbon credits are based on the cap-and-trade model that was used to reduce sulfur pollution in the 1990s.Negotiators at the Glasgow COP26 climate change summit in November 2021 agreed to create a global carbon credit offset trading market.






   How Do Carbon Credits Work?  

The ultimate goal of carbon credits is to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. As noted, a carbon credit represents the right to emit greenhouse gases equivalent to one ton of carbon dioxide. According to the Environmental Defense Fund, that is the equivalent of a 2,400-mile drive in terms of carbon dioxide emissions.



Companies or nations are allotted a certain number of credits and may trade them to help balance total worldwide emissions. “Since carbon dioxide is the principal greenhouse gas,” the United Nations notes, “people speak simply of trading in carbon.”



The intention is to reduce the number of credits over time, thus incentivizing companies to find innovative ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.


   U.S. Carbon Credits Today  

Cap-and-trade programs remain controversial in the United States. However, 11 states have adopted such market-based approaches to the reduction of greenhouse gases, according to the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions. Of these, 10 are Northeast states that banded together to jointly attack the problem through a program known as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI).


  California’s Cap-and-Trade Program  

The state of California initiated its own cap-and-trade program in 2013. The rules apply to the state’s large electric power plants, industrial plants, and fuel distributors. The state claims that its program is the fourth largest in the world after those of the European Union, South Korea, and the Chinese province of Guangdong.






The cap-and-trade system is sometimes described as a market system. That is, it creates an exchange value for emissions. Its proponents argue that a cap-and-trade program offers an incentive for companies to invest in cleaner technologies to avoid buying permits that will increase in cost every year.


  The U.S. Clean Air Act  

The United States has been regulating airborne emissions since the passage of the U.S. Clean Air Act of 1990, which is credited as the world’s first cap-and-trade program (although it called the caps “allowances”).



The program is credited by the Environmental Defense Fund for substantially reducing emissions of sulfur dioxide from coal-fired power plants, the cause of the notorious acid rain of the 1980s.


  The Inflation Reduction Act  

The most recent development expected to affect the carbon credit market is the Inflation Reduction Act, a landmark bill signed into law on Aug. 16, 2022, that aims to reduce the deficit, fight inflation, and reduce carbon emissions.



The legislation is very focused on cleaning up the environment and includes a provision to reward high-emitting companies that store their greenhouse gases underground or use them to build other products. The rewards come in the form of significantly expanded tax credits, which have increased to $85 from $50 for each metric ton of captured carbon stored underground and to $60 from $35 for each ton of captured carbon that is used in other manufacturing processes or for oil recovery.



It is hoped that these more generous credits will convince investors to make a bigger effort at capturing carbon. Previously, the tax incentive, known as 45Q, was accused of only paying enough to make easy carbon capture projects worth pursuing.


   Worldwide Carbon Credit Initiatives  

The United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) developed a carbon credit proposal to reduce worldwide carbon emissions in a 1997 agreement known as the Kyoto Protocol. The agreement set binding emission reduction targets for the countries that signed it. Another agreement, known as the Marrakesh Accords, spelled out the rules for how the system would work.



The Kyoto Protocol divided countries into industrialized and developing economies. Industrialized countries, collectively called Annex 1, operated in their own emissions trading market. If a country emitted less than its target amount of hydrocarbons, it could sell its surplus credits to countries that did not achieve its Kyoto level goals, through an Emissions Reduction Purchase Agreement (ERPA). 



The separate Clean Development Mechanism for developing countries issued carbon credits called a Certified Emission Reduction (CER). A developing nation could receive these credits for supporting sustainable development initiatives. The trading of CERs took place in a separate market.



The first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol ended in 2012. The U.S. had already dropped out in 2001.


  The Paris Climate Agreement  

The Kyoto Protocol was revised in 2012 in an agreement known as the Doha Amendment, which was ratified as of October 2020, with 147 member nations having “deposited their instrument of acceptance.”



More than 190 nations signed on to the Paris Agreement of 2015, which also sets emission standards and allows for emissions trading. The U.S. dropped out in 2017 under then-President Donald Trump, but subsequently rejoined the agreement in January 2021 under President Biden.






The Paris Agreement, also known as the Paris Climate Accord, is an agreement among the leaders of more than 180 countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and limit the global temperature increase to below 2 degrees Celsius (36 degrees Fahrenheit) above preindustrial levels by the year 2100.


  The Glasgow COP26 Climate Change Summit  

Negotiators at the summit in November 2021 inked a deal that saw nearly 200 countries implement Article 6 of the 2015 Paris Agreement, allowing nations to work toward their climate targets by buying offset credits that represent emission reductions by other countries. The hope is that the agreement encourages governments to invest in initiatives and technology that protect forests and build renewable energy technology infrastructure to combat climate change.



For instance, Brazil’s chief negotiator at the summit, Leonardo Cleaver de Athayde, flagged that the forest-rich South American country planned to be a major trader of carbon credits. “It should spur investment and the development of projects that could deliver significant emissions reductions,” he told Reuters.



Several other provisions in the accord include zero tax on bilateral trades of offsets between countries and canceling 2% of total credits, aimed at reducing overall global emissions. Additionally, 5% of revenues generated from offsets will be placed in an adaptation fund for developing countries to help fight climate change. Negotiators also agreed to carry over offsets registered since 2013, allowing 320 million credits to enter the new market.




Why should levels of carbon and greenhouse gases in the atmosphere be reduced?
Scientists at the United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) have shown that increased levels of greenhouse gases (GHG) in the atmosphere are warming the planet. This creates extreme weather changes around the world. Currently, carbon dioxide is the main GHG and is created by burning fossil fuels—coal, oil and gas. By reducing the amount of carbon dioxide we emit, we may avoid doing further damage to our climate.




How much does a carbon credit cost?
Carbon credits have different prices, depending on the location and market where they are traded. In 2019, the average price for carbon credits was $4.33 per ton. This figure spiked to as much as $5.60 per ton in 2020 before settling to an average of $4.73 in the first eight months of the following year.




Where can you buy carbon credits?
Several private companies offer carbon offsets to companies or individuals seeking to reduce their net carbon footprint. These offsets represent investments or contributions to forestry or other projects with a negative carbon footprint. Buyers can also purchase tradable credits on a carbon exchange such as New York-based Xpansive CBL or Singapore’s AirCarbon Exchange.




How large is the carbon credit market?
Estimates of the size of the carbon credit market vary wildly, due to the different regulations in each market and other geographical distinctions. The voluntary carbon market, consisting largely of companies that buy carbon offsets for corporate social responsibility (CSR) reasons, had an estimated value of $1 billion in 2021, according to some figures. The market for compliance credits, related to regulatory carbon caps, is substantially larger, with estimates ranging as high as $272 billion for 2020.


   The Bottom Line  

Carbon credits were devised as a mechanism to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by creating a market in which companies can trade in emissions permits. Under the system, companies get a set number of carbon credits, which decline over time. They can sell any excess to another company.



Carbon credits create a monetary incentive for companies to reduce their carbon emissions. Those that cannot easily reduce emissions can still operate, but at a higher financial cost. Proponents of the carbon credit system say that it leads to measurable, verifiable emission reductions.
What Is Carding?  

Carding is a form of credit card fraud in which a stolen credit card is used to charge prepaid cards or purchase gift cards. Carding typically involves the holder of the stolen card or card information purchasing store-branded gift cards, which can then be sold to others or used to purchase other goods that can be sold for cash. Credit card thieves who are involved in this type of fraud are called “carders.”



The United States is a significant target for credit card fraud because it is a large market in which credit card and debit card use is common, and because the types of cards that are used in the United States either contain only a magnetic stripe or employ a chip and signature technology, rather than the chip and personal identification number (PIN) technology found in most of Europe.





Key Takeways

Carding is a form of credit card fraud in which a stolen credit card is used to charge prepaid cards.Card forums are online shopping venues for stolen credit and debit card information and criminal techniques.Carding is a third-party attack on an individual's financial information.Card forums are online shopping venues for stolen credit and debit card information and criminal techniques.Newer technologies like CVVs, CAPTCHA, and multifactor authentication have been effective against carders.


   How Carding Works  

Carding typically starts with a hacker gaining access to a store’s or website’s credit card processing system, with the hacker obtaining a list of credit or debit cards that were recently used to make a purchase. Hackers might exploit weaknesses in the security software and technology intended to protect credit card accounts. They might also procure credit card information by using scanners to copy the coding from the magnetic strips.



Credit card information might also be compromised by accessing the account holder’s other personal information, such as bank accounts the hacker has already gained entry to, targeting the information at its source. The hacker then sells the list of credit or debit card numbers to a third party—a carder—who uses the stolen information to purchase a gift card.



Most credit card companies offer cardholders protection from charges made if a credit or debit card is reported stolen, but by the time the cards are canceled, the carder has often already made a purchase. The gift cards are used to purchase high-value goods, such as cell phones, televisions, and computers, as those goods do not require registration and can be resold later. If the carder purchases a gift card from an electronics retailer, such as Amazon, they may use a third party to receive the goods and then ship them to other locations. This limits the carder’s risk of drawing attention. The carder may also sell the goods on websites offering a degree of anonymity.



Because credit cards are often canceled quickly after being lost, a major part of carding involves testing the stolen card information to see if it still works. This may involve submitting card-not-present purchase requests on the Internet.


   Special Considerations  

There is a special language and special websites used by credit card fraudsters. Some of these are discussed below.


  Carding Forum  

Carding forums are websites used for the exchange of information and tech skills about the illicit traade in stolen credit cards or debit card account information. Fraudsters use these sites to buy and sell their illegally gained information. New protective efforts like PINs and chips have made it more difficult to use stolen cards in point of sale transactions, but card-not-present sales remain the mainstay of card thieves and are much discussed on carding forums.


  Fullz  

Fullz is a slang term for "full information" and is used by criminals who steal credit card information. It refers to the information package containing a person's real name, address, and form of identification. The information is used for identity theft and financial fraud. The person whose "fullz" is sold is not a party to the transactions.


  Credit Card Dump  

A credit card dump occurs when a criminal makes an unauthorized digital copy of a credit card. It is performed by physically copying information from the card or hacking the issuer's payments network. Although the technique is not new, its scale has expanded tremendously in recent years, with some attacks including millions of victims.


   How Companies Prevent Carding Fraud  

Companies are implementing various techniques to stay ahead of the carders. Some of the more interesting recent changes include requiring more information from the user that is not as easily available to the carder.


  Address Verification System (AVS)  

An AVS system compares the billing address supplied at checkout in an online purchse to the address of record at the credit card company. The results are immediately returned to the seller with a full match, address match, ZIP code match, and no match at all. A properly functioning AVS system can stop no match transactions if the card is reported lost or stolen. For the address only or ZIP only matches, the seller has discretion to accept or not. AVS is currently used in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom.


  IP Geolocation Check  

An IP geolocation system compares the IP location of the user's computer to the bill address entered on the checkout page. If they don't match, fraud may be indicated. There are legit reasons, such as travel, for a failure to match up, but they generally warrant further investigation.


  Card Verification Value (CVV)  

A card verification value (CVV) code is a three or four digit number on a credit card that adds an extra layer of security for making purchases when the buyer is not physically present. Since it is on the card itself, it verifies that the person making a phone or online purchase actually has a physical copy of the card.



If your card number is stolen, a thief without the CVV will have difficulty using it. The CVV can be stored in the card's magnetic strip or in the card's chip. The seller submits the CVV with all other data as part of the transaction authorization request. The issuer can approve, refer, or decline transactions that fail CVV validation, depending on the issuer's procedures.


  Multifactor Authentication (MFA)  

Multifactor authentication is a security technology that requires more than one method of authenticaion from independent credentials to verify a user's login or other transaction. It can use two or more independent information bits, coming from the user's knowledge (e.g., a password), the user's possession (e.g., authenticator token), or what the user is (biometric data). Using MFA creates a layered process making it more difficult for an unauthorized person to access his or her target, because the attacker probably won't hack all of the layers. MFA originally used only two factors, but more factors are no longer uncommon.


  CAPTCHA  

CAPTCHA (Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart) is a security measure of the challenge-response authentication type. It protects users from password decryption by asking the user to complete a test that proves the test taker is human and not a computer attempting to break into the account.



CAPTCHA uses a random series of numbers and letters in a distorted image and requires the user to list them in order. All of the number/letter systems have been defeated by hackers at one point or another. As a result, alternative versions now use anomaly spotting systems (find the squares with ships) which are easy for humans but less so for computers.


  Velocity Checks  

Velocity checks look at the number of transactions attempted by the same card or site visitor within a given number of seconds or minutes of one another. Typically, users do not make multiple payments in quick succession, especially payments so rapid as to be beyond the capacity of a human being. Velocity can be monitored by dollar amount, user IP address, billing address, Bank Identification Number (BIN), and device.


   Examples of Carding  

Carding generally involves the purchase of gift cards which are then used to purchase gift cards which can then be spent on relatively difficult to trace goods. Often the goods are then re-sold online or elsewhere. The information gained in carding is also use for indentity theft and money laundering.


  Resale of the Information  

One of the easiest ways to make use of the information obtained in carding is to resell it to others who will then use it in various illicit schemes.


  Money Laundering  

In 2004, a popular carding forum and an online payment system often used by carders were found to have become a bank and transfer system allowing money laundering and the processing of criminal funds. Pressured to flip, the individuals running the payment site gave up a lot of criminal names and activities but were eventually themselves convicted of money laundering.


   The Bottom Line  

In the long run, carding can only be prevented if cardholders and those who accept cards aggressively take advantage of every available method to prevent carding. Sellers should be require as many prevention aids as they can practically afford, while cardholders should keep an eye out for physical signs of tampering any time they use a card in an ATM or gap pump.


   Carding FAQs  


What Is a Carding Attack?
A carding attack is an attempt to place rapid multiple fraudulent orders on a online site. It can usually be recognized by a sharp sudden spike in orders being placed, usually with the same shipping address. Often the customer information given will be clearly fraudulent.




How Can You Protect Yourself from Carding?
You can protect yourself as a seller from carding by using one or more of the newly developed fraud prevention methods like CAPTCHA and CVV requirements. Individuals should be careful with their cards and be on the lookout for signs of tampering when using ATMs and gas pumps.




How Do Criminals Steal Credit Card Information?
Fraudsters steal credit card information in various ways. They use skimmers, which steal credit and debit card information from ATMs and gas pumps in which they have been installed. They also gain information through phishing scams, site compromises, or even by purchasing the information on carder forums.




What Is a Credit Card Skimmer?
A credit card skimmer is a fraudulent instrument or device placed inside a legitimate reader, such as an automated teller machine or a gas pump to copy the data off cards used in that ATM or pump.




What Is the Punishment for Carding?
In most states, using a stolen credit or debit card for transactions in an amount over the misdemeanor limit is a felony. In addition to potential restitution, convicted carders can face up to 15 years in prison and fines of up to $25,000. If the carding is connected to money laundering, the potential penalties escalate sharply.
What Is Carriage and Insurance Paid to (CIP)?  

Insurance is a long-standing practice in trading, and carriage and insurance paid to (CIP) is when a seller pays freight and insurance to deliver goods to a seller-appointed party at an agreed-upon location. The risk of damage or loss to the goods being transported transfers from the seller to the buyer as soon as the goods are delivered to the carrier or appointed person.



CIP is comparable to but different from cost, insurance, and freight (CIF), an agreement that is used in maritime trade and commodity trading. Under CIP, the seller is obligated to insure goods in transit for 110% of the contract value. If the buyer desires additional insurance, they must arrange for it on their own.



CIP is one of 11 Incoterms, a series of globally accepted commercial trade terms most recently published in 2020 by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC).





Key Takeaways

The term “carriage and insurance paid to (CIP)” signifies that the seller will pay freight and insurance in sending goods to someone chosen by the seller at a mutually agreeable location.The seller must insure the goods being sent for 110% of their contract value.CIP is an Incoterm, one of 11 devised by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) and accepted around the world.


   How CIP Works  

CIP is typically used in conjunction with a destination. For example, CIP New York means that the seller pays freight and insurance charges to New York. As is the case with carriage paid to (CPT), carriage or freight charges with CIP refer to transportation charges for any accepted mode of transport, such as road, rail, sea, inland waterway, air, or multimodal transport that involves a combination thereof.



For example, say that LG in South Korea wants to ship a container of tablet computers to Best Buy in the United States. Under CIP, LG is responsible for all freight costs and minimum insurance coverage to deliver the tablet computers to the carrier or appointed person for Best Buy at an agreed-upon destination. Once the shipment is delivered to the carrier or appointed person for Best Buy, LG’s obligation is complete, and Best Buy assumes full risk and responsibility for the shipment.






If buyers want better insurance coverage than 110% of the contract value, they must pay for it themselves.


   Additional Coverage Under CIP  

As the seller is only obligated to purchase the minimum amount of insurance coverage to transport the shipment to the destination, the buyer should consider arranging additional coverage that protects the shipment from all risks. Otherwise, the buyer may have to bear huge losses if the shipment is damaged or lost through some adverse event that is not covered by the minimal insurance provided by the seller.



The buyer may also ask the seller to provide extra insurance coverage and—depending on the relative bargaining positions of the buyer and seller—negotiate for the seller to bear part or all of the cost of such additional insurance.




What Does Carriage and Insurance Paid to (CIP) Cover?
CIP is a globally accepted Incoterm devised by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) that regulates the cost of shipping items in a business sale. It requires the seller to pay for both freight and insurance costs in sending goods to a buyer chosen by the seller at a mutually agreed-upon location. As soon as the goods are delivered, the risk of damage or loss becomes the buyer’s.




How Much Insurance Does CIP Require?
The seller must take out 110% of the contract value in insurance. If the buyer wishes to have more insurance, arranging and paying for it is their responsibility.




What Kind of Transport Is Eligible for CIP?
Any form of recognized transport can be used, including road, rail, sea, inland waterway, air, and any combination thereof.


   The Bottom Line  

Carriage and insurance paid to (CIP) means that the seller will pay freight and insurance when sending goods to someone they choose at a location they both agreed on. The seller has to insure the goods being sent for 110% of their contract value. CIP is an Incoterm, which is devised by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) and accepted worldwide.
What Is Carried Interest?  

Carried interest is a share of profits earned by general partners of private equity, venture capital, and hedge funds. Carried interest is due to general partners based on their role rather than an initial investment in the fund. As a performance fee, carried interest aligns the general partner's compensation with the fund's returns. Carried interest is often only paid if the fund achieves a minimum return known as the hurdle rate. Carried interest typically qualifies for treatment as a long-term capital gain taxed at a lower rate than ordinary income.





Key Takeaways

Carried interest is a share of profits from a private equity, venture capital, or hedge fund paid as incentive compensation to the fund's general partner.Carried interest typically is only paid if a fund achieves a specified minimum return.In most cases, carried interest is considered a return on investment and taxed as a capital gain rather than ordinary income, usually at a lower rate. Because carried interest is typically distributed after a period of years, it defers taxes in the manner of an unrealized capital gain.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   How Carried Interest Works  

Carried interest serves as the primary source of compensation for the general partner, typically amounting to 20% of a fund's returns. The general partner passes its gains through to the fund's managers.



Many general partners also charge a 2% annual management fee. Unlike the management fee, carried interest is only earned if a fund achieves a pre-agreed minimum return.



Carried interest can also be forfeited if the fund underperforms. For example, if fund targeted a 10% annual return but only returned 7% for a period of time, investors known as limited partners may be entitled under the terms of their investment agreement to "claw back" a portion of the carry paid to the general partner to cover the shortfall when the fund closes. Although the clawback provision is not an industry standard, it has been used to argue that carried interest should not be taxed as ordinary income.



The carried interest portion of a general partner's compensation typically vests over a number of years. 






Carried interest has long been a controversial political issue, criticized as a “loophole” that allows private-equity managers to secure a reduced tax rate.


   Taxation of Carried Interest  

Carried interest on investments held longer than three years is subject to a long-term capital gains tax with a top rate of 20%, compared with the 37% top rate on ordinary income.



Critics argue taxing carried interest as long-term capital gains allows some of the richest Americans to unfairly defer and lower taxes on the bulk of their income.



Defenders of the status quo contend the tax code's treatment of carried interest is comparable to its handling of "sweat equity" business investments.



The minimum holding period on an investment required to qualify associated carried interest for treatment as a long-term capital gain was increased from one year to three by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued complex rules related to the provision in 2021.



Private-equity and venture-capital fund holding periods typically range from five to seven years, however. Some in Congress have proposed requiring the annual reporting of imputed carried interest for immediate taxation as ordinary income.
What Is a Carve-Out?  

A carve-out is the partial divestiture of a business unit in which a parent company sells a minority interest of a subsidiary to outside investors. A company undertaking a carve-out is not selling a business unit outright but, instead, is selling an equity stake in that business or relinquishing control of the business from its own while retaining an equity stake. A carve-out allows a company to capitalize on a business segment that may not be part of its core operations.












Investopedia / Julie Bang





Key Takeaways

In a carve-out, the parent company sells some of its shares in its subsidiary to the public through an initial public offering (IPO), effectively establishing the subsidiary as a standalone company.Since shares are sold to the public, a carve-out also establishes a new set of shareholders in the subsidiary.A carve-out allows a company to capitalize on a business segment that may not be part of its core operations as it still retains an equity stake in the subsidiary.A carve-out is similar to a spin-off, however, a spin-off is when a parent company transfers shares to existing shareholders as opposed to new ones.


   How a Carve-Out Works  

In a carve-out, the parent company sells some of its shares in its subsidiary to the public through an initial public offering (IPO). Since shares are sold to the public, a carve-out also establishes a new set of shareholders in the subsidiary. A carve-out often precedes the full spin-off of the subsidiary to the parent company's shareholders. In order for such a future spin-off to be tax-free, it has to satisfy the 80% control requirement, which means that not more than 20% of the subsidiary's stock can be offered in an IPO.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿



A carve-out effectively separates a subsidiary or business unit from its parent as a standalone company. The new organization has its own board of directors and financial statements. However, the parent company usually retains a controlling interest in the new company and offers strategic support and resources to help the business succeed. Unlike a spin-off, the parent company generally receives a cash inflow through a carve-out.



A corporation may resort to a carve-out strategy rather than a total divestiture for several reasons, and regulators take this into account when approving or denying such a restructuring. Sometimes a business unit is deeply integrated, making it hard for the company to sell the unit off completely while keeping it solvent. Those considering an investment in the carve-out must consider what might happen if the original company completely cuts ties with the carve-out and what prompted the carve-out in the first place.


   Carve-Out vs. Spin-Off  

In an equity carve-out, a business sells shares in a business unit. The ultimate goal of the company may be to fully divest its interests, but this may not be for several years. The equity carve-out allows the company to receive cash for the shares it sells now. This type of carve-out may be used if the company does not believe that a single buyer for the entire business is available, or if the company wants to maintain some control over the business unit.



Another divestment option is the spin-off. In this strategy, the company divests a business unit by making that unit its own standalone company. Rather than selling shares in the business unit publicly, current investors are given shares in the new company. The business unit spun off is now an independent company with its own shareholders, and the shareholders now hold shares in two companies. The parent company does not usually receive any cash benefit, and may still own an equity stake in the new company. To be tax-free for the final ownership structure, the parent company must relinquish 80% of control or more.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿
What Is Cash Accounting?  

Cash accounting is an accounting method where payment receipts are recorded during the period in which they are received, and expenses are recorded in the period in which they are actually paid. In other words, revenues and expenses are recorded when cash is received and paid, respectively.



Cash accounting is also called cash-basis accounting; and may be contrasted with accrual accounting, which recognizes income at the time the revenue is earned and records expenses when liabilities are incurred regardless of when cash is actually received or paid.





Key Takeaways

Cash accounting is simple and straightforward. Transactions are recorded only when money goes in or out of an account.Cash accounting doesn't work as well for larger companies or companies with a large inventory because it can obscure the true financial position.The alternative to cash accounting is accrual accounting, where transactions are recorded as revenues are earned and expenses are incurred, regardless of the exchange of cash.


   Understanding Cash Accounting  

Cash accounting is one of two forms of accounting. The other is accrual accounting, where revenue and expenses are recorded when they are incurred. Small businesses often use cash accounting because it is simpler and more straightforward and it provides a clear picture of how much money the business actually has on hand. Corporations, however, are required to use accrual accounting under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).



When transactions are recorded on a cash basis, they affect a company's books with a delay from when a transaction is consummated. As a result, cash accounting is often less accurate than accrual accounting in the short term. 



Most small businesses are permitted to choose between either the cash and accrual method of accounting, but the IRS requires businesses with over $25 million in annual gross receipts to use the accrual method.﻿﻿ In addition, the Tax Reform Act of 1986 prohibits the cash accounting method from being used for C corporations, tax shelters, certain types of trusts, and partnerships that have C Corporation partners.﻿﻿ Note that companies must use the same accounting method for tax reporting as they do for their own internal bookkeeping.


   Example of Cash Accounting  

Under the cash accounting method, say Company A receives $10,000 from the sale of 10 computers sold to Company B on November 2, and records the sale as having occurred on November 2. The fact that Company B in fact placed the order for the computers back on October 5 is deemed irrelevant, because it did not pay for them until they were physically delivered on November 2.



Under accrual accounting, by contrast, Company A would have recorded the $10,000 sale on October 5, even though no cash had yet changed hands. 



Similarly, under cash accounting companies record expenses when they actually pay them, not when they incur them. If Company C hires Company D for pest control on January 15, but does not pay the invoice for the service completed until February 15, the expense would not be recognized until February 15 under cash accounting. Under accrual accounting, however, the expense would be recorded in the books on January 15 when it was initiated.


   Limitations of Cash Accounting  

A main drawback of cash accounting is that it may not provide an accurate picture of the liabilities that have been incurred (i.e. accrued) but not yet paid for, so that the business might appear to be better off than it really is. On the other hand, cash accounting also means that a business that has just completed a large job for which it is awaiting payment may appear to be less successful than it really is because it has expended the materials and labor for the job but not yet collected payment. Therefore, cash accounting can both overstate or understate the condition of the business if collections or payments happen to be particularly high or low in one period versus another.



There are also some potentially negative tax consequences for businesses that adopt the cash accounting method. In general, businesses can only deduct expenses that are recognized within the current tax year.﻿﻿ If a company incurs expenses in December 2019, but does not make payments against the expenses until January 2020, it would not be able to claim a deduction for the fiscal year ended 2019, which could significantly affect the business' bottom line. Likewise, a company that receives payment from a client in 2020 for services rendered in 2019 will only be allowed to include the revenue in its financial statements for 2020.
What Is a Cash Advance?  

A cash advance is a short-term loan from a bank or an alternative lender. The term also refers to a service provided by many credit card issuers allowing cardholders to withdraw a certain amount of cash against their available credit. Cash advances generally feature steep interest rates and fees, but they are attractive to borrowers because they also feature fast approval and quick funding.





Key Takeaways

A cash advance is a type of short-term loan, often issued by a credit card company, and usually involving high-interest rates and fees.Other types of cash advances include merchant cash advances, which are alternative loans for businesses, and payday loans, which have exorbitantly high rates and are prohibited in many states.A credit card cash advance won't directly hurt your credit score, but it will hurt it indirectly by lifting your outstanding balance and your credit utilization ratio, which is a factor in credit scores.


   Types of Cash Advances  

There are a variety of cash advances, but the common denominators among all of them are the stiff interest rates and fees.


  Credit Card Cash Advances  

The most popular type of cash advance is borrowing on a line of credit through a credit card. The money can be withdrawn at an ATM or, depending on the credit card company, from a check that is deposited or cashed at a bank. Credit card cash advances typically carry an interest rate that is higher than the rate for regular purchases. What’s more, the interest begins to accrue immediately; there is no grace period.



These cash advances usually include a fee as well, either a flat rate or a percentage of the advanced amount. Additionally, if you use an ATM to access the cash, you often are charged a small usage fee.



Along with separate interest rates, credit card cash advances carry a separate balance from credit purchases, but the monthly payment can be applied to both balances. However, if you are only paying the minimum amount due, the card issuer is allowed by federal law to apply it to the balance with the lower interest rate. As that is invariably the rate for purchases, the cash advance balance can sit and accrue interest at that high rate for months.



Any payments over the minimum payment must be applied to the highest interest balance, so if possible, paying more than the minimum is advisable.



In most cases, credit card cash advances do not qualify for no- or low-interest-rate introductory offers. On the plus side, they are quick and easy to obtain.


  Merchant Cash Advances  

Merchant cash advances refer to loans received by companies or merchants from banks or alternative lenders. Typically, businesses with less-than-perfect credit use cash advances to finance their activities, and in some cases, these advances are paid for with future credit card receipts or with a portion of the funds the business receives from sales in its online account. Rather than using a business’ credit score, alternative lenders often survey its creditworthiness by looking at multiple data points, including how much money the merchant receives through online accounts like PayPal.


  Payday Loans  

In consumer lending, the phrase “cash advance” can also refer to payday loans. Issued by special payday lenders, loans can start anywhere from $1,000 to $50,000, but they come with fees (typically around $15 per $100 borrowed) and interest rates exceeding 100%. Rather than taking into account the borrower’s credit score, the lender determines the amount of the loan based on local state regulations and the size of the applicant’s paycheck. If the loan is approved, the lender hands the borrower cash; if the transaction takes place online, the lender makes an electronic deposit to the borrower’s checking or savings account.



The loans are extremely short-term—they must be paid back on the borrower’s next payday unless they wish to extend the loan, and in that case, additional interest is charged. Unfortunately, many do: More than 80% of all payday loans are rolled over within 30 days of the previous loan, according to a 2014 study by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).



Payday loans are only legal in 26 states, and of those, 16 states require lenders to offer extended payment plans that help mitigate the excess rollover fees. However, many payday lenders don't advertise these payment plans, instead hoping that borrowers will rack up excessive fees.



The process can be quicker, if more complex, than securing a credit card cash advance. To obtain a payday loan, you write a postdated check made out to the payday lender for the amount you plan to borrow, including the fees. The lender immediately issues the borrowed amount but waits to cash your check until payday arrives. Some electronically minded lenders now have borrowers sign an agreement for automatic repayment from their bank accounts. Lenders usually ask that you provide personal identification and proof of income when you apply.



Some employers offer payday loans or advances on paychecks as a service to their employees. Terms vary, but often no fees or interest are charged.






A cash advance can be helpful to someone who needs cash fast and has a solid plan for paying it back quickly. But cash advances can be disastrous if the borrower is about to declare bankruptcy, needs to pay off a credit card or other bills that have interest rates, or just wants the money to buy more products.


   Do Cash Advances Impact Your Credit Score?  

Taking out a cash advance has no direct impact on your credit or credit score, but it can affect it indirectly in various ways.



First, if you take the advance from a credit card, it will raise your outstanding balance, which will raise your credit utilization ratio, a measure that credit scoring models use to calculate your score. If you owe $500 on a $1,500 limit card, for example, your credit utilization ratio is 30%. However, if you take out a $300 cash advance on that card, the balance will jump to $800, resulting in a credit utilization of more than 53%. High utilization rates are a big indicator of credit risk.



As noted earlier, a cash advance usually has a high-interest rate. If this affects your ability to pay the monthly charges promptly, that also could affect your credit score. And if the cash advance puts you over the card’s credit limit, your credit score can be dinged. Even after the balance is paid down, your credit report will show the highest balance reported, and other potential lenders will see that you were over the limit at one point, which could hurt your ability to get new credit.


   Cash Advance Pros and Cons  

A credit card cash advance could be a reasonable option for someone who has an emergency need for money and limited resources for getting it, especially when that person has a clear and reasonable plan for paying back the money in a short period. It is, for example, a better option than a payday loan or a car title loan, due to the exorbitant triple-digit interest rates those loans typically carry and the greater payoff flexibility that comes with credit card debt.



But cash advances would be a bad idea under these conditions:



Just before declaring bankruptcy: New credit card debt does not magically disappear in bankruptcy. Your creditors and a judge will examine your debts, including the dates and types. Once you know or have a strong inclination that you’ll soon file for bankruptcy, credit card use of any kind may be considered fraudulent. A cash advance immediately prior to filing is very likely to be challenged by the card issuer, and that account may be excluded from the debts that are forgiven in bankruptcy. 
To pay a credit card bill: A cash advance is a very expensive way to pay bills, and the risk of falling into revolving debt cannot be ignored. The potential to pay many times the amount of the original advance (in interest charges) is very real. Furthermore, in addition to the higher interest rate, there are those additional fees that everyday credit card purchases are not subject to.
To buy something you can’t afford: Going into debt to satisfy a desire is not just financially dangerous; it’s emotionally detrimental. A person who thrives on immediate gratification and the temporary emotional lift of a big purchase will eventually feel regret (and possibly depression, anxiety, stress, and other debilitating emotions) when faced with the debt—the more compulsive the purchase, the more pronounced the regret.




What Is a Cash Advance?
A cash advance is considered a short-term loan and can be taken from a credit card, if you have enough balance on your account, or as a payday loan.




Can a Cash Advance Impact my Credit Score?
It can, indirectly. If you do not pay it back in a short period of time, it can raise the balance on your credit card which impacts your credit utilization rate.




Is a Cash Advance a Good Solution for Emergency Funding?
A cash advance comes with hefty interest rates and fees, so you may want to consider other less expensive alternatives, if possible. In an extreme situation, a cash advance is fast and accessible; just make sure you have a plan to pay it back quickly.


   The Bottom Line  

Cash advances aren’t alarming when used infrequently, but they are at best short-term solutions to cover emergencies. If they are becoming a habit, or if you find you regularly need a cash advance to make ends meet, then drastic budgeting and spending changes are in order.
What is Cash-and-Carry-Arbitrage  

Cash-and-carry-arbitrage is a market-neutral strategy combining the purchase of a long position in an asset such as a stock or commodity, and the sale (short) of a position in a futures contract on that same underlying asset. It seeks to exploit pricing inefficiencies for the asset in the cash (or spot) market and futures market, in order to make riskless profits. The futures contract must be theoretically expensive relative to the underlying asset or the arbitrage will not be profitable.





Key Takeaways

Cash-and-carry arbitrage seeks to exploit pricing inefficiencies between spot and futures markets for an asset by going long in the spot market and opening a short on the futures contract.The idea is to "carry" the asset for physical delivery until the expiry date for the futures contract.Cash-and-carry-arbitrage is not entirely without risk because there may be expenses associated with physically "carrying" an asset until expiry.


   Basics of Cash-and-Carry-Arbitrage  

In a cash-and-carry-arbitrage, the arbitrageur would typically seek to "carry" the asset until the expiration date of the futures contract, at which point it would be delivered against the futures contract. Therefore, this strategy is only viable if the cash inflow from the short futures position exceeds the acquisition cost and carrying costs on the long asset position.



Cash-and-carry arbitrage positions are not 100% without risk as there is still risk the carrying costs can increase, such as a brokerage raising its margin rates. However, the risk of any market movement, which is the major component in any regular long or short trade, is mitigated by the fact that once the trade is set in motion the only event is the delivery of the asset against the futures contract. There is no need to access either one in the open market at expiration.



Physical assets such as barrels of oil or tons of grain require storage and insurance, but stock indexes, such as the S&P 500 Index, likely require only financing costs, such as margin. Therefore, arbitrage may be more profitable, all else held constant, in these non-physical markets. However, because the barriers to participate in arbitrage are much lower, they allow more players to attempt such a trade. The result is more efficient pricing between spot and futures markets and lower spreads between the two. Lower spreads mean lower opportunities to profit.



Less active markets may still have arbitrage possibilities, as long as there is adequate liquidity on both sides of the game—spot and futures.


   Example of Cash-and-Carry Arbitrage  

Consider the following example of cash-and-carry-arbitrage. Assume an asset currently trades at $100, while the one-month futures contract is priced at $104. In addition, monthly carrying costs such as storage, insurance, and financing costs for this asset amount to $3.



In this case, the arbitrageur would buy the asset (or open a long position in it) at $100 and simultaneously sell the one-month futures contract (i.e. initiate a short position in it) at $104. The trader would then hold or carry the asset until the expiration date of the futures contract and deliver the asset against the contract, thereby ensuring an arbitrage or riskless profit of $1.
What Are Cash and Cash Equivalents (CCE)?  

Cash and cash equivalents refers to the line item on the balance sheet that reports the value of a company's assets that are cash or can be converted into cash immediately. Cash equivalents include bank accounts and marketable securities, which are debt securities with maturities of less than 90 days. However, oftentimes cash equivalents do not include equity or stock holdings because they can fluctuate in value.





Key Takeaways

Cash and cash equivalents refers to the line item on the balance sheet that reports the value of a company's assets that are cash or can be converted into cash immediately.Cash equivalents include bank accounts and marketable securities such as commercial paper and short-term government bonds.Cash equivalents should have maturities of three months or less.Cash equivalents must also be able to be liquidated to cash; for this reason, cash equivalents often have active markets.A company carries cash and cash equivalents to pay its short-term bills but to also preserve capital for long-term capital deployment.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Cash and Cash Equivalents (CCE)  

Cash and cash equivalents are a group of assets owned by a company. For simplicity, the total value of cash on hand includes items with a similar nature to cash. If a company has cash or cash equivalents, the aggregate of these assets is always shown on the top line of the balance sheet. This is because cash and cash equivalents are current assets, meaning they're the most liquid of short-term assets.






Companies with a healthy amount of cash and cash equivalents can reflect positively in their ability to meet their short-term debt obligations.


   Types of Cash and Cash Equivalents  

Cash and cash equivalents help companies with their working capital needs since these liquid assets are used to pay off current liabilities, which are short-term debts and bills.


  Cash  

Cash is money in the form of currency, which includes all bills, coins, and currency notes. A demand deposit is a type of account from which funds may be withdrawn at any time without having to notify the institution. Examples of demand deposit accounts include checking accounts and savings accounts. All demand account balances as of the date of the financial statements are included in cash totals.


  Foreign Currency  

Companies holding more than one currency can experience currency exchange risk. Currency from foreign countries must be translated to the reporting currency for financial reporting purposes. The conversion should provide results comparable to those that would have occurred if the business had completed operations using only one currency. Translation losses from the devaluation of foreign currency are not reported with cash and cash equivalents. These losses are reported in the financial reporting account called "accumulated other comprehensive income."


  Cash Equivalent  

Cash equivalents are investments that can readily be converted into cash. The investment must be short-term, usually with a maximum investment duration of three months or less. If an investment matures in more than three months, it should be classified in the account named "other investments." Cash equivalents should be highly liquid and easily sold on the market. The buyers of these investments should be easily accessible.



The dollar amounts of cash equivalents must be known. Therefore, all cash equivalents must have a known market price and should not be subject to price fluctuations. The value of the cash equivalents must not be expected to change significantly before redemption or maturity. Examples of cash equivalents include:



Marketable Securities. This broad term covers any investment security that can quickly be converted to cash in a short amount of time. Many of the examples below can also be referred to as marketable security, and companies often lump these investments together on their balance sheet.
Treasury Bills. These debt instruments are issued by the United States government and often have a maturity date of one year or less.
Other Short-Term Government Bonds. These debt instruments may be issued by any government entity (city, state, or Federal). The creditworthiness of the government agency must be considered when evaluating the risk of the bond.
Banker's Acceptance. This is an agreement where the bank has agreed to guarantee a future agreement between two parties. This instrument is a specified amount to be paid to the holder on a specific date.
Commercial Paper. These are short-term bonds or debt issued by corporations. Commercial paper has a maturity of up to nine months (270 days). The interest rate on commercial paper will vary based on the creditworthiness of the issuing corporation.
Money Market Account. This interest-bearing account is similar to a savings account; however, they often require larger minimum deposits and have some minor restrictions to the account.
Certificates of Deposits. CDs may be considered cash equivalent depending on the maturity date.
Preferred Shares of Equity. This may be considered a cash equivalent if they are purchased shortly before the redemption date and not expected to experience material fluctuation in value.






A company can have too much cash or cash equivalents on hand, though. It may be inefficient to sit on these resources instead of deploying them for company growth or rewarding investors with dividends.


   Exclusion From Cash and Cash Equivalents  

There are some exceptions to short-term assets and current assets being classified as cash and cash equivalents.


  Credit Collateral  

Exceptions can exist for short-term debt instruments such as Treasury-bills if they're being used as collateral for an outstanding loan or line of credit. Restricted T-bills must be reported separately. In other words, there can be no restrictions on converting any of the securities listed as cash and cash equivalents.


  Inventory  

Inventory that a company has in stock is not considered a cash equivalent because it might not be readily converted to cash. Also, the value of inventory is not guaranteed, meaning there's no certainty in the amount that'll be received for liquidating the inventory.


  Unbreakable Certificate of Deposits  

A grey area of cash equivalents relates to certificate of deposits for terms longer than 3 months that can not be broken. Oftentimes, financial institutions will allow the CD holder to break their financial product in exchange for a forfeiture of interest (i.e. the last six months of interest is foregone). If a financial institution does not allow this option, the CD should not be treated as a cash equivalent. This is especially true for longer-term products such as five-year CDs that must be held to maturity.


  Prepaid Assets  

A company may report prepaid assets as part of its current asset section. These prepaid assets may be refundable. However, because there is risk that a refund cannot be processed timely or there may be only a partial return of funds, prepaid assets are not considered cash equivalents.


  Accounts Receivable  

Because of the uncertainty regarding client creditworthiness, outstanding account receivable balances are not cash equivalents even if the invoice is due or shortly to be due. Even if a debt is ready for collection, there is no guarantee the client will be able to pay. In addition, the company may not have preferential positioning in bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings. Therefore, money owed from clients is not the same as cash equivalents.


   Cash vs. Cash Equivalents  

Although the balance sheet account groups cash and cash equivalents together, there are a few notable differences between the two types of accounts. Cash is obviously direct ownership of money, while cash equivalents represent ownership of a financial instrument that often ties to a claim to cash.



Cash and cash equivalents may have different insurance coverage. Savings and checking accounts (cash) and money market accounts (cash equivalents) are often insured up to $250,000 by the FDIC. However, money market mutual funds are not federally insured. Debt instruments, whether issued by a government or corporation, is tied to the health of that entity with no guarantee the entity may survive the term of the cash equivalent.



Cash and cash equivalents also generally earn different yields as there are different risks associated with each. Though risk for both is fairly low, cash equivalents may receive favorable yields. In addition, some money market funds may be tax-exempt or be held in tax-favorable accounts. Meanwhile, cash often receives lower rates of interest in deposit accounts.






Because cryptocurrencies are not legal tender and not backed by governments or legal entities, U.S. GAAP does not treat cryptocurrency as cash, foreign currency, or cash equivalents.


   Purpose of Cash and Cash Equivalents  

Companies carry cash and cash equivalents for a variety of business reasons. A company may want to have cash and cash equivalents on hand to:



Pay current debts. Companies must use cash and cash equivalents to pay invoices and current portions of long-term debts as they come due. Instead of needing to liquidate long-term assets, payment is made with the most liquid assets.
Save for future capital investments. Companies may have a long-term plan for growth or development, and that plan may require a substantial amount of capital. Risk-averse companies or businesses that may be looking to scale in a year or two may not be willing to invest their funds in riskier products. Instead, holding cash and cash equivalents is often a safe place for companies to park funds they'll need in the future.
Plan for emergencies. On the same note, cash equivalents are the closest instruments to cash. Whether a company is holding cash or cash equivalents, these products may protect a company during inclement periods of business or stretches of broad market uncertainty.
Meet financial covenants. A company may be required to hold a certain amount of highly liquid assets as part of a debt covenant. That covenant may not stipulate what the financial product has to be or carry any restrictions on it. For example, a loan may require a company hold a certain amount of cash or cash equivalents.


   Real-World Example of Cash and Cash Equivalents  

In its third quarter 2022 condensed consolidated balance sheet, Apple Inc. reported $27.502 billion of cash and cash equivalents. On September 25, 2021, Apple Inc. had reported $34.94 billion of cash and cash equivalents.















Apple Inc. Q3 2022 Balance Sheet (Select Accounts).



In Note 3 to its financial statements, Apple provides a substantial amount of information regarding what comprises this cash and cash equivalent balance. Apple classifies its broad assortment of financial instruments as cash, Level 1 instruments, or Level 2 instruments (based on how the item is valued).















Apple Inc, Q3 2022 Cash Equivalents.



In the table above, the fifth column represents the value Apple assigned as cash and cash equivalents. The company owns cash, money market funds, U.S. Treasury securities. U.S. agency securities, certificate of deposit and time deposits, commercial paper, and corporate debt securities.




What Is the Difference Between Cash and Cash Equivalents?
Cash is the direct ownership of a government-issued currency. This may take the form of physical cash (bills and coins) or digital cash (i.e. bank account balances).Cash equivalents are short-term investments that can be easily liquidate, carry low risk of loss, and have active marketplaces to ensure quick transacting. These instruments can easily be converted to cash but are classified differently because they are not actual claims of ownership of cash.




Are Cash Equivalents Better Than Cash?
Cash equivalents have certain benefits over cash that make them better for some investors. However, both types of financial instruments are very similar and yield similarly low yields. The difference between cash and cash equivalents is minimal.




Why Do Companies Hold Cash Equivalents?
Cash equivalents often have slightly greater yields than cash. Even buying one-month Treasury bills may yield higher rates than what a company may get on their savings account. Cash yields also allows a company to strategically hold low-risk investments for future use while still attempting to preserve purchasing power better than holding cash directly.




What Makes a Financial Instrument a Cash Equivalent?
Financial instruments are defined as cash equivalents if they are highly liquid products that have active marketplaces, are without liquidation restrictions, and are easily convertible to cash. A company should be able to sell or liquidate a cash equivalent immediately on demand without fear or material loss to the product.


   The Bottom Line  

Cash and cash equivalents are the most liquid current assets on a company's balance sheet. The assortment of financial products that comprise the balance of this classification usually have maturities of three months or less, are easily convertible to cash, and must not be tied to restrictions that limit their liquidity. Companies often hold cash and cash equivalents to pay short-term debt and hold capital in secure places for future use.
What Is Cash Back?  

Cash back, also known as “cashback,” refers to two types of financial transactions related to credit and debit cards that have grown increasingly popular in the last two decades. Most commonly, it’s a credit card benefit that refunds the cardholder a small percentage of the amount spent on each purchase above a certain dollar threshold.



Cash back also describes a debit card transaction in which cardholders receive cash when they make a purchase—generally, a small amount above the item cost.





Key Takeaways


Cash back refers to a credit card benefit that refunds the cardholder’s account a small percentage of the sum spent on purchases.
Cash back rewards are actual cash that can be applied to a credit card bill or received as a check or bank account deposit.
Cash back apps and websites can offer consumers a way to earn money back on purchases.
Some cash-back rewards programs come with annual fees or a high annual percentage rate (APR), but not all.
Cash back can also refer to the practice of charging an amount above the purchase price on a debit card and receiving the extra money in cash at the point of sale.



   How Cash Back Works  

An outgrowth of credit card issuers’ general rewards programs, cash-back programs date to 1986, when the Discover card was launched nationally, introducing the concept. Since then, they have become ubiquitous, and nearly every major card issuer now offers the feature on at least one of its products. It’s an incentive for existing customers to use the card early and often and for acquiring new clients or poaching them from a competitor.



Unlike traditional rewards points, which can only be used to buy goods or services, or gift cards offered by the card issuer, cash-back rewards are what their name implies: cash. They are usually presented to the cardholder on the monthly credit card statement.



Consumers may receive the cash back reward through direct deposit to a linked bank account, as a statement credit reducing that month’s bill, as a gift card, or through the mail by check.





1986

The year of the national debut of the Discover card, which pioneered cash back rewards


   Cash Back Amounts  

The amount of a cash-back reward can range from 1% to 5% of a transaction. Some transactions also offer extra rewards through merchant partnerships: Purchases at that merchant earn you more than purchases elsewhere.



Credit cards often offer varying cash-back levels, depending on the type of purchase or transaction level. For example, a cardholder might earn 3% back on gas purchases, 2% on groceries, and 1% on all other purchases. A special promotion where you can get cash back often might be in effect for three months, during which spending in a specific category—restaurants or department stores—earns a higher refunded percentage for that period.



Typically, the cardholder must reach a particular transaction level to qualify for cash back or other benefits; it’s usually small, around $25, but it varies from card to card. Some card companies also let cash rewards be used toward specific purchases, including travel, electronics, or partnership incentive programs. In issuing a cash-back reward, the credit card company shares with the consumer a portion of the transaction fee that it charges merchants.






There is an actual retail event called Cash Back Day, which debuted in 2019 and continues annually each November. In 2020, RetailMeNot gave its customers up to 20% cash back if they enrolled in its programs and shopped at 100 featured stores with 1,153 available offers.


   Cash Back Sites and Apps  

Cash-back apps and websites can also help you earn money for shopping while using their tools. Many cash-back sites partner with retailers, such as Amazon and Target, to offer specific deals on items such as toys or holiday gear.



Cash-back sites usually operate like this: First, you download the app or extension and sign up for a free membership. Next, you sign into the cash-back site, use a link for the store that you want to shop in, and start shopping.



The cash-back site or app records your purchases, and you earn money after your transactions are approved and go through. The cash back (a percentage of your spending) usually lands in a PayPal or bank account. Cash-back apps can be used to find money-saving deals while earning cash in different categories, including restaurants and delivery services.



Three popular cash-back programs are Rakuten, Ibotta, and Shopkick, although there are others.


  Rakuten  

This cash-back website was Ebates in another life. Rebranded as Rakuten in 2019, the site earns its money by getting commissions from more than 2,500 stores, including Lowe’s, Kohl’s, Walmart, and Macy’s, for sending online bargain hunters its way. The commissions are shared with Rakuten customers, which is how you earn your cash back, up to 40%. If you have a PayPal account, then your earnings can go there, or the company mails you a check.



Rakuten has mixed reviews on the Better Business Bureau (BBB) website, which gave it a B rating due to product and service issues, including customers saying they never received their cash-back rewards. Still, the customer rating average is 4.25 out of five stars, based on 330 customer reviews.


  Ibotta  

This cash-back app can be used in stores and for online shopping via your mobile device. Its specialty is groceries. The app is enabled in hundreds of markets and large chain stores such as Trader Joe’s, Whole Foods, Wegmans, Costco, Hannaford, Walmart, Target, Aldi, and Albertsons, plus convenience stores such as 7-Eleven, Wawa, and Stewart’s Shops.



lbotta is in partnership with more than 1,500 retailers and brands in categories that include health and wellness, travel, home and auto, kids and baby, pet supply, sports, and outdoors.



It also offers cash back on subscriptions, restaurants, and food delivery services. Ibotta doesn’t list the percentage back that you’ll earn by using the app. Still, according to its website, lbotta has paid out over $980 million to more than 35 million users since 2012, when it was founded, and the company states that the redemption will show up in your account within 24 hours or less.



Like Rakuten, Ibotta earned a B rating from the BBB, and there are compliments and complaints from users—some of whom claim they haven’t received their cash back on time, while others say they are earning money quickly. Three hundred and thirty-two customer reviews average out to a 2.55 customer rating out of five stars.


  Shopkick  

This mobile app lets shoppers earn gift cards in place of cash, so while it is not exactly a cash-back tool, users can earn reward points, which the company calls “kicks,” for using the Shopkick app and scanning products in participating retailers. You then turn those points into gift cards for such varied companies as Starbucks, Amazon, Target, Sephora, Best Buy, Barnes & Noble, PayPal, Apple, AMC, and more.



When you download the app, it will show you participating retailers and products that can earn you kicks. You can even earn a kick for entering a store without making a purchase, through Bluetooth recognition. The app also may offer users exclusive incentives and discounts, along with rewards points.



Shopkick has an A+ rating from the BBB, but as of July 29, 2021, there were only 27 customer reviews, most of which involved complaints and averaged out to a 1.44 rating out of five stars.


   Cash Back in Hand  

With debit cards and some credit cards, a customer may also get the opportunity to receive cash back immediately at a supermarket or other location. The customer can ask the merchant to add an extra amount to the purchase price and receive this additional cash.



Providers of services often do this to let a customer leave a cash tip. However, unlike the cash-back process described above, the practice isn’t a refund—the customer is just charging more on the card.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Cash Back  

The advantages of enrolling in cash-back programs are apparent. You get cash back for spending your money, whether using your credit or debit card or even shopping online.



On the downside, cash-back credit cards may have high annual percentage rates (APRs) or annual fees or put a cap on how much cash back you can earn, and you do have to spend money to earn the cash. Also, you can lose your earned rewards if you don’t pay your bills on time and your credit card is canceled.





Pros

Cash-back apps and websites may offer discounts on products along with cash-back rewards.
Some credit cards with cash back offer a sign-up bonus.
Cash-back apps and websites are an easy way to earn cash rewards while shopping.



Cons

Cash-back apps and websites don’t always issue your cash back in a timely manner.
Cash-back credit cards may have a higher annual percentage rate (APR) than cards without rewards.
There may be a cap on how much cash you can earn back.







What Does Cash Back Mean?
Cash back usually refers to a rewards program that returns a percentage of each purchase to the buyer. It can also refer to certain types of debit cards that allow cardholders to withdraw cash from their accounts at a merchant point of sale.




Is Cash Back Free Money?
Not exactly. When a credit card offers cash back rewards, they are betting that the cardholders' increased spending will exceed the money spent on cash rewards. Cardholders pay for cash back through higher APRs and merchant fees.




What Stores Give Free Cash Back?
Multiple stores offer cash-back rewards. How much depends on their rewards program. Kohl’s, Dick’s Sporting Goods, The Home Depot, and CVS, among others, offer their customers cash-back rewards programs.




Can I Get a Cash Back Signing Bonus?
If you sign up for a cash-back card with a cash signing bonus, it could be worth anywhere from $200 to $1,500 if you meet certain requirements, such as a minimum spending amount in a set amount of time.




What Are the Best Cash Back Credit Cards?
Credit card deals change frequently, so it is worth taking time to research the latest deals. You can also check out Investopedia's review of the best credit cards currently available.


   The Bottom Line  

Signing up with a cash-back rewards credit or debit card is a way to earn some extra cash based on your purchases. You can use a cash-back app or website to find potential deals on goods while also making a percentage of your money back. The more that you use your cash-back rewards programs, the more money that you stand to earn.



There are a few drawbacks to a cash-back rewards card, including a higher-than-usual APR, having to wait to access your cash-back funds, and a cap on how much you can earn each year. Also, when it comes to travel rewards such as airline miles, sometimes the miles are worth more than the cash.
What Is a Cash Balance Pension Plan?  

A cash balance pension plan is a defined-benefit pension plan with the option of a lifetime annuity. The employer credits a participant's account with a set percentage of their yearly compensation plus interest charges for a cash balance plan. The funding limits, funding requirements, and investment risk are based on defined-benefit requirements. Changes in the portfolio do not affect the final benefits received by the participant upon retirement or termination, and the company bears all ownership of profits and losses in the portfolio.





Key Takeaways

A cash balance pension plan is one in which participants receive a set percentage of their yearly compensation plus interest charges.This type of plan is maintained on an individual account basis, much like a defined-contribution plan.The benefit of such plans is that contribution limits increase with age.Cash balance pension plans do not have contribution limits because the employer funds them to meet a specific account balance at an employee's planned retirement date.


   Understanding Cash Balance Pension Plans  

A cash balance plan (CBP) is maintained on an individual account basis, much like a defined-contribution plan. This means it isn't like the regular defined-benefit plan. Instead, the cash balance pension plan acts just like a defined-contribution plan because changes in the value of the participant's portfolio do not affect the account balance promised by the employer.



The features of cash balance pension plans resemble those of 401(k) plans. Investments are managed professionally, and participants are promised a specific benefit at retirement. However, the benefits are stated in terms of a 401(k)-style account balance rather than the terms of a monthly income stream.



For instance, an employee on a cash balance pension plan might receive a promise of 5% of their salary with a 5% interest credit. If they made $100,000 annually, they would receive a pay credit of $5,000 plus 5% interest paid on the account balance. As the number of years at the employer increases, the account balance grows to meet the balance promised by the company. At retirement, the employee can choose a lump sum or monthly annuity payment.






The benefits of individuals participating in private-sector pension plans are protected by federal laws, such as the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA).


   Cash Balance Pension Plan vs. Traditional Pension Plan  

The most significant difference between a cash balance pension and a traditional pension plan is that the traditional plan generally uses the last few years of your highest compensation to determine your monthly benefit.



A cash benefit pension plan uses the total number of years you're with the company and is designed to have a predetermined amount in the account by retirement.


   Cash Balance Pension Plan vs. 401(k)  

Besides the contribution limits, the most significant difference between the cash balance pension and a 401(k) is that the employer bears the investment risk in a CBP. The employer is responsible for ensuring the employee receives the amount promised, so no matter what happens, it must ensure the employee gets that amount. People 60 years and older can sock away well over $300,000 annually in pretax contributions.



In a 401(k), the employee bears the investment risk because they are the ones that choose the way the plan invests. The employer has no investment risk because they give employees money to invest as they see fit. Additionally, the retirement benefit amount depends on the balance of the account.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a Cash Balance Pension Plan  

While this type of plan does have several benefits, there are some disadvantages to consider as well.





Pros

Lump sum payouts
Rollover
Tax deferred
No contribution limit



Cons

Taxable distributions
No employee contributions
High cost to maintain





  Pros Explained  

Lump sum payouts: A cash balance pension can pay out in a lump sum. This can benefit someone who still has time to invest or wants to place the capital in a traditional preservation instrument like government bonds or money market funds.Rollover: You can roll a lump sum payout into an IRA or another pension plan.Tax-deferred: Contributions are tax-deferred. This means you don't pay taxes on your distributions until you make withdrawals or take a lump sum payment. If you're in a higher tax bracket when you're contributing than when you make withdrawals, you pay less in income tax.No contribution limit: The annual limit for a cash balance pension depends on how much you make, how old you are, and the target date and balance of the fund. IRAs and 401(k)s have limits.


  Cons Explained  

Taxable distributions: While the tax-deferred treatment is a benefit, you will have to pay taxes when you withdraw money.No employee contributions: Only the employer contributes, so you can't add capital from your wages.High costs to maintain: The costs to maintain the plans are higher because an actuary is needed to ensure it performs well enough to meet the balance requirements. This translates into higher coss for employers.


   Special Considerations  

Combining a cash balance and a 401(k) pension plan can help you slash your tax bills and bolster your nest egg because you legally have two retirement plans.



When combined with a 401(k) plan, cash balance employer contributions for rank-and-file employees usually amount to roughly 6.9% of pay compared with the 4.7% contributions that are typical of 401(k) plans only.



Participants receive an annual interest credit. This credit may be set at a fixed rate, such as 5%, or a variable rate, such as the 30-year Treasury rate. At retirement, participants can take an annuity based on their account balance or a lump sum, which can then be rolled into an IRA or another employer's plan.



Cash balance pension plans are often more expensive (for the employer) to administer than traditional employer-sponsored retirement savings plans like the 401(k). That's because these pension plans require certification to ensure they're adequately funded. The types of fees and amounts for each can vary, but cash plans tend to have higher startup costs, annual administration charges, and relatively high management fees.




Is a Cash Balance Pension Plan Better Than a 401(k)?
Both can be excellent retirement plans. Which one is better depends on your preferences, goals, how long you might be with an employer, and current income.




What Can I Do With a Cash Balance Plan?
You can choose to make withdrawals or a lump sum payout. If you choose a lump sum, you can roll it into an IRA or other retirement plan if allowed.




What Happens To My Cash Balance Pension if I Quit?
Your cash balance pension is portable, so you can take the vested portion with you when you quit and roll it into another retirement account.


   The Bottom Line  

A cash balance pension plan is similar to other retirement accounts. The contributions are tax-deferred for the employee, and the principal grows with compounding interest and capital gains. The employer takes on all the investment risk, and the employee can use their wages to invest in another retirement fund of their choice.



While a cash balance pension is an excellent retirement plan option, you should choose one with caution. Compare it to other accounts and the tax treatment you expect to receive when you retire to see if it or another plan will work better for your financial situation.
What Is a Cash Budget?  

A cash budget is an estimation of the cash flows of a business over a specific period of time. This could be for a weekly, monthly, quarterly, or annual budget. This budget is used to assess whether the entity has sufficient cash to continue operating over the given time frame. The cash budget provides a company insight into its cash needs (and any surplus) and helps to determine an efficient allocation of cash.





Key Takeaways

A cash budget is a company's estimation of cash inflows and outflows over a specific period of time, which can be weekly, monthly, quarterly, or annually.A company will use a cash budget to determine whether it has sufficient cash to continue operating over the given time frame.A cash budget will also provide a company with insight into its cash needs and any surpluses, which help it determine if the business is using cash effectively.Cash budgets can be viewed as short-term cash budgets, usually, a time frame of weeks to months, or long-term cash budgets, which are viewed as years.A company must manage its sales and expenses to reach optimal cash flow.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   How a Cash Budget Works  

Companies use sales and production forecasts to create a cash budget, along with assumptions about necessary spending and accounts receivable collections. A cash budget is necessary to assess whether a company will have enough cash to continue operations. If a company does not have enough liquidity to operate, it must raise more capital by issuing stock or taking on more debt.



A cash roll forward computes the cash inflows and outflows for a month, and it uses the ending balance as the beginning balance for the following month. This process allows the company to forecast cash needs throughout the year, and changes to the roll forward to adjust the cash balances for all future months.


   Short-Term Cash Budget vs. Long-Term Cash Budget  

Cash budgets are usually viewed in either the short-term or the long-term. Short-term cash budgets focus on the cash requirements needed for the next week or months whereas long-term cash budget focuses on cash needs for the next year to several years.



Short-term cash budgets will look at items such as utility bills, rent, payroll, payments to suppliers, other operating expenses, and investments. Long-term cash budgets focus on quarterly and annual tax payments, capital expenditure projects, and long-term investments. Long-term cash budgets usually require more strategic planning and detailed analysis as they require cash to be tied up for a longer period of time.



It's also prudent to budget cash requirements for any emergencies or unexpected needs for cash that may arise, particularly if the business is new and all aspects of operations are not fully realized.






At the end of each budgetary term, the ending balance of the cash budget is carried forward to the next term's cash budget.


   Special Considerations  

Managing a cash budget also comes down to carefully managing the growth of the business. For example, all businesses want to sell more and grow, but it is crucial to do so in a sustainable way.



For example, a company may implement a marketing strategy to boost brand awareness and sell more products. The ad campaign is successful and demand for the product takes off. If the company isn't prepared to meet this increase in demand, for example, it may not have enough machinery to produce more goods, enough employees to conduct quality checks, or enough suppliers to order the required raw materials, then it could have many unhappy customers.



The company may want to build out all these aspects to meet demand, but if it doesn't have enough cash or financing to be able to do so, then it cannot. Therefore, it is important to manage sales and expenses to reach an optimal level of cash flow.


   Example of a Cash Budget  

For example, let's assume ABC Clothing manufactures shoes, and it estimates $300,000 in sales for the months of June, July, and August. At a retail price of $60 per pair, the company estimates sales of 5,000 pairs of shoes each month. ABC forecasts that 80% of the cash from these sales will be collected in the month following the sale and the other 20% will be collected two months after the sale. The beginning cash balance for July is forecast to be $20,000, and the cash budget assumes 80% of the June sales will be collected in July, which equals $240,000 (80% of $300,000). ABC also projects $100,000 in cash inflows from sales made earlier in the year.



On the expense side, ABC must also calculate the production costs required to produce the shoes and meet customer demand. The company expects 1,000 pairs of shoes to be in the beginning inventory, which means a minimum of 4,000 pairs must be produced in July. If the production cost is $50 per pair, ABC spends $200,000 ($50 x 4,000) in the month of July on the cost of goods sold, which is the manufacturing cost. The company also expects to pay $60,000 in costs not directly related to production, such as insurance.



ABC computes the cash inflows by adding the receivables collected during July to the beginning balance, which is $360,000 ($20,000 July beginning balance + $240,000 in June sales collected in July + $100,000 in cash inflows from earlier sales). The company then subtracts the cash needed to pay for production and other expenses. That total is $260,000 ($200,000 in cost of goods sold + $60,000 in other costs). ABC’s July ending cash balance is $100,000, or $360,000 in cash inflows minus $260,000 in cash outflows.




What Are the Steps of Creating a Cash Budget?
The first step to creating a cash budget is to establish reliable forecasts of the company's cash inflows and outflows. Some of these flows will be predictable, such as rent and payroll costs. Others, like sales figures, will tend to be more variable. Once these figures have been estimated, it is possible to prepare a cash budget that accounts for all expected inflows and outflows.




What Expenses Should Be Included in a Cash Budget?
A cash budget should take into account expected cash flows, such as revenue, as well as operational outflows due to returns, payroll, rent, utilities, supplies, and other costs of running the business.




How Do You Prepare a Cash Budget?
This will depend on the time frame for which the budget is being prepared. A short-term cash budget of a few weeks will only account for day-to-day expenses related to funding and supplying a company's operations, while a cash budget for a quarter or longer might also account for larger expenses like equipment, capital investment, and corporate taxes. In each case, any remaining cash surplus at the end of one budget period will be carried on to the beginning of the next.
What Is the Cash Conversion Cycle (CCC)?  

The cash conversion cycle (CCC) is a metric that expresses the time (measured in days) that it takes for a company to convert its investments in inventory and other resources into cash flows from sales. Also called the net operating cycle or simply cash cycle, CCC attempts to measure how long each net input dollar is tied up in the production and sales process before it gets converted into cash received.



This metric takes into account how much time the company needs to sell its inventory, how much time it takes to collect receivables, and how much time it has to pay its bills.



The CCC is one of several quantitative measures that help evaluate the efficiency of a company’s operations and management. A trend of decreasing or steady CCC values over multiple periods is a good sign, while rising ones should lead to more investigation and analysis based on other factors. One should bear in mind that CCC applies only to select sectors dependent on inventory management and related operations.





Key Takeaways

The cash conversion cycle (CCC) is a metric that expresses the length of time (in days) that it takes for a company to convert its investments in inventory and other resources into cash flows from sales.This metric takes into account the time needed for the company to sell its inventory, the time required for the company to collect receivables, and the time that the company is allowed to pay its bills without incurring any penalties.CCC will differ by industry sector based on the nature of business operations.












Michela Buttignol / Investopedia


   The Formula for the Cash Conversion Cycle (CCC)  

Since CCC involves calculating the net aggregate time involved across the above three stages of the cash conversion life cycle, the mathematical formula for CCC is represented as:


















C


C


C


=


D


I


O


+


D


S


O


−


D


P


O
















where:
















D


I


O


=


Days of inventory outstanding
















(also known as days sales of inventory)
















D


S


O


=


Days sales outstanding
















D


P


O


=


Days payables outstanding







\begin{aligned} &CCC = DIO + DSO - DPO \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &DIO = \text{Days of inventory outstanding} \\ &\text{(also known as days sales of inventory)} \\ &DSO = \text{Days sales outstanding} \\ &DPO = \text{Days payables outstanding} \\ \end{aligned}


​CCC=DIO+DSO−DPOwhere:DIO=Days of inventory outstanding(also known as days sales of inventory)DSO=Days sales outstandingDPO=Days payables outstanding​



DIO and DSO are associated with the company’s cash inflows, while DPO is linked to cash outflow. Hence, DPO is the only negative figure in the calculation. Another way to look at the formula construction is that DIO and DSO are linked to inventory and accounts receivable, respectively, which are considered as short-term assets and are taken as positive. DPO is linked to accounts payable, which is a liability and thus taken as negative.


  Calculating the Cash Conversion Cycle  

A company’s cash conversion cycle broadly moves through three distinct stages. To calculate CCC, you need several items from the financial statements:



Revenue and cost of goods sold (COGS) from the income statement
Inventory at the beginning and end of the time period
Accounts receivable (AR) at the beginning and end of the time period
Accounts payable (AP) at the beginning and end of the time period
The number of days in the period (e.g., year = 365 days, quarter = 90)



The first stage focuses on the existing inventory level and represents how long it will take for the business to sell its inventory. This figure is calculated by using the days inventory outstanding (DIO). A lower value of DIO is preferred, as it indicates that the company is making sales rapidly, implying better turnover for the business.



DIO, also known as DSI (days sales of inventory), is calculated based on the cost of goods sold (COGS), which represents the cost of acquiring or manufacturing the products that a company sells during a period. 


















D


S


I


=



Avg. Inventory



C


O


G


S




×


365


 Days
















where:
















Avg. Inventory


=



1


2



×


(


BI


+


EI


)
















BI


=


Beginning inventory
















EI


=


Ending inventory







\begin{aligned} &DSI=\frac{\text{Avg. Inventory}}{COGS} \times 365 \text{ Days} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Avg. Inventory} = \frac{1}{2} \times ( \text{BI} + \text{EI} ) \\ &\text{BI} = \text{Beginning inventory} \\ &\text{EI} = \text{Ending inventory} \\ \end{aligned}


​DSI=COGSAvg. Inventory​×365 Dayswhere:Avg. Inventory=21​×(BI+EI)BI=Beginning inventoryEI=Ending inventory​



The second stage focuses on the current sales and represents how long it takes to collect the cash generated from the sales. This figure is calculated by using the days sales outstanding (DSO), which divides average accounts receivable by revenue per day. A lower value is preferred for DSO, which indicates that the company is able to collect capital in a short time, in turn enhancing its cash position.


















D


S


O


=



Avg. Accounts Receivable


Revenue Per Day

















where:
















Avg. Accounts Receivable


=



1


2



×


(


BAR


+


EAR


)
















BAR


=


Beginning AR
















EAR


=


Ending AR







\begin{aligned} &DSO=\frac{\text{Avg. Accounts Receivable}}{\text{Revenue Per Day}}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{Avg. Accounts Receivable} = \frac{1}{2} \times ( \text{BAR}+\text{EAR} ) \\ &\text{BAR} = \text{Beginning AR} \\ &\text{EAR} = \text{Ending AR} \\ \end{aligned}


​DSO=Revenue Per DayAvg. Accounts Receivable​where:Avg. Accounts Receivable=21​×(BAR+EAR)BAR=Beginning AREAR=Ending AR​



The third stage focuses on the current outstanding payable for the business. It takes into account the amount of money that the company owes its current suppliers for the inventory and goods it purchased, and it represents the time span in which the company must pay off those obligations. This figure is calculated by using the days payable outstanding (DPO), which considers accounts payable. A higher DPO value is preferred. By maximizing this number, the company holds onto cash longer, thus increasing its investment potential.


















D


P


O


=



Avg. Accounts Payable



C


O


G


S


 Per Day


















where:
















Avg. Accounts Payable


=



1


2



×


(


BAP


+


EAP


)
















BAP


=


Beginning AP
















EAP


=


Ending AP
















C


O


G


S


=


Cost of Goods Sold







\begin{aligned} &DPO=\frac{\text{Avg. Accounts Payable}}{COGS \text{ Per Day}} \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\text{Avg. Accounts Payable} = \frac{1}{2} \times ( \text{BAP} + \text{EAP} ) \\ &\text{BAP} = \text{Beginning AP} \\ &\text{EAP} = \text{Ending AP} \\ &COGS = \text{Cost of Goods Sold} \end{aligned}


​DPO=COGS Per DayAvg. Accounts Payable​where:Avg. Accounts Payable=21​×(BAP+EAP)BAP=Beginning APEAP=Ending APCOGS=Cost of Goods Sold​



All of the above-mentioned figures are available as standard items in the financial statements filed by a publicly listed company as a part of its annual and quarterly reporting. The number of days in the corresponding period is taken as 365 for a year and 90 for a quarter.


   What the Cash Conversion Cycle Can Tell You  

Boosting sales of inventory for profit is the primary way for a business to make more earnings. But how does one sell more stuff? If cash is easily available at regular intervals, then one can churn out more sales for profits, as frequent availability of capital leads to more products to make and sell. A company can acquire inventory on credit, which results in accounts payable (AP).



A company can also sell products on credit, which results in accounts receivable (AR). Therefore, cash isn’t a factor until the company pays the accounts payable and collects the accounts receivable. Timing is thus an important aspect of cash management.



CCC traces the life cycle of cash used for business activity. It follows the cash as it’s first converted into inventory and accounts payable, then into expenses for product or service development, through to sales and accounts receivable, and then back into cash in hand. Essentially, CCC represents how fast a company can convert the invested cash from start (investment) to end (returns). The lower the CCC, the better.



Inventory management, sales realization, and payables are the three key ingredients of business. If any of these goes for a toss—say, inventory mismanagement, sales constraints, or payables increasing in number, value, or frequency—then the business is set to suffer. Beyond the monetary value involved, CCC accounts for the time involved in these processes that provides another view of the company’s operating efficiency.



In addition to other financial measures, the CCC value indicates how efficiently a company’s management is using the short-term assets and liabilities to generate and redeploy the cash and gives a peek into the company’s financial health with respect to cash management. The figure also helps assess the liquidity risk linked to a company’s operations.


   Special Considerations  

If a business has hit all the right notes and is efficiently serving the needs of the market and its customers, it will have a lower CCC value.



CCC may not provide meaningful inferences as a stand-alone number for a given period. Analysts use it to track a business over multiple time periods and to compare the company to its competitors. Tracking a company’s CCC over multiple quarters will show if it is improving, maintaining, or worsening its operational efficiency.



While comparing competing businesses, investors may look at a combination of factors to select the best fit. If two companies have similar values for return on equity (ROE) and return on assets (ROA), it may be worth investing in the company that has the lowest CCC value. It indicates that the company is able to generate similar returns more quickly.



CCC is also used internally by the company’s management to adjust their methods of credit purchase payments or cash collections from debtors.


   Example of How to Use the Cash Conversion Cycle  

CCC has a selective application to different industrial sectors based on the nature of business operations. The measure has a great significance for retailers like Walmart Inc. (WMT), Target Corp. (TGT), and Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST), which are involved in buying and managing inventories and selling them to customers. All such businesses may have a high positive value of CCC.



However, CCC does not apply to companies that don’t have needs for inventory management. Software companies that offer computer programs through licensing, for instance, can realize sales (and profits) without the need to manage stockpiles. Similarly, insurance or brokerage companies don’t buy items wholesale for retail, so CCC doesn’t apply to them.



Businesses can have negative CCCs, like online retailers eBay Inc. (EBAY) and Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN). Often, online retailers receive funds in their accounts for sales of goods that actually belong to and are served by third-party sellers who use the online platform. However, these companies don’t pay the sellers immediately after the sale but may follow a monthly or threshold-based payment cycle. This mechanism allows these companies to hold onto the cash for a longer period of time, so they often end up with a negative CCC. Additionally, if the goods are directly supplied by the third-party seller to the customer, the online retailer never holds any inventory in house.



A Harvard Business blog post attributes the negative CCC as a key factor in Amazon’s survival of the dot-com bubble of 2000. Operating with a negative CCC became a source of cash for the company, instead of being a cost for it.




What does the cash conversion cycle measure?
The cash conversion cycle (CCC) is one of several measures of management effectiveness. It measures how fast a company can convert cash on hand into even more cash on hand. The CCC does this by following the cash, or the capital investment, as it is first converted into inventory and accounts payable (AP), through sales and accounts receivable (AR), and then back into cash. Generally, the lower the number for the CCC, the better it is for the company.




What is the cash conversion cycle formula?
Cash Conversion Cycle = Days Inventory Outstanding + Days Sales Outstanding - Days Payables Outstanding




What does the cash conversion cycle say about a company’s management?
When a company—or its management—takes an extended period of time to collect outstanding accounts receivable, has too much inventory on hand, or pays its expenses too quickly, it lengthens the CCC. A longer CCC means that it takes a longer time to generate cash, which can mean insolvency for small companies.When a company collects outstanding payments quickly, correctly forecasts inventory needs, or pays its bills slowly, it shortens the CCC. A shorter CCC means that the company is healthier. Additional money can then be used to make additional purchases or pay down outstanding debt.When a manager has to pay its suppliers quickly, it’s known as a pull on liquidity, which is bad for the company. When a manager cannot collect payments quickly enough, it’s known as a drag on liquidity, which is also bad for the company.




How does inventory turnover affect the cash conversion cycle?
A higher, or quicker, inventory turnover decreases the cash conversion cycle. Thus, a better inventory turnover is a positive for the CCC and a company’s overall efficiency.
What Is a Cash Cow?  

A cash cow is one of the four categories (quadrants) in the growth-share, BCG matrix that represents a product, product line, or company with a large market share within a mature industry.



A cash cow is also a reference to a business, product, or asset that, once acquired and paid off, will produce consistent cash flows over its lifespan. 





Key Takeaways

A cash cow is a business or unit that, once it has been paid for, will produce steady cash flow over its lifespan.A cash cow is also one of four quadrants in the BCG matrix, which looks at the value of different units within a corporation.Cash cows are part of mature, slow-growing industries, have a large chunk of the market share and require minimal investment to thrive.


   Understanding Cash Cows  

A cash cow is a metaphor for a dairy cow that produces milk over the course of its life and requires little to no maintenance. The phrase is applied to a business that is also similarly low-maintenance. Modern-day cash cows require little investment capital and perennially provide positive cash flows, which can be allocated to other divisions within a corporation. They are low risk, high reward investments.



Cash cows are one of four quadrants in the BCG matrix, a business unit organization method introduced by the Boston Consulting Group in the early 1970s. The BCG matrix, also known as the Boston Box or Grid, places an organization's businesses or products into one of four categories: star, question mark, dog, and cash cow. The matrix helps firms understand where their business stands in terms of market share and industry growth rate. It serves as a comparative analysis of a business's potential and an evaluation of the industry and market. 



However, some firms, especially large corporations, realize that businesses/products within their portfolio lie between two categories. This is especially true with product lines at different points in the product life-cycle. Cash cows and stars tend to complement each other, whereas dogs and question marks use resources less efficiently.






A cash cow is a reference to a business, product, or asset that produces consistent cash flow over its lifespan; it's also a reference to one of the four quadrants in the BCG Matrix, a business unit organization method.


   Cash Cow Example  

A cash cow is a company or business unit in a mature slow-growth industry. Cash cows have a large share of the market and require little investment. For example, the iPhone is Apple's (AAPL) cash cow. Its return on assets is far greater than its market growth rate; as a result, Apple can invest the excess cash generated by the iPhone into other projects or products.



Cash cows, such as Microsoft (MSFT) and Intel (INTL), provide dividends and have the capacity to increase their dividend due to their ample free cash flows calculated as cash flows from operations minus capital expenditures. These companies are mature and do not need as much capital to grow. They are marked by high-profit margins and strong cash flows. Cash cows can also be slow-growth companies or business units with well-established brands in the industry.


   Special Considerations  

In contrast to a cash cow, a star, in the BCG matrix, is a company or business unit that realizes a high market share in high-growth markets. Stars require large capital outlays but can generate significant cash. If a successful strategy is adopted, stars can morph into cash cows. 



Question marks are the business units experiencing low market share in a high-growth industry. They require large amounts of cash to capture more of or sustain their position within the market. Depending on the strategy adopted by the firm, question marks can land in any of the other quadrants.



Lastly, dogs are the business units with low market shares in low-growth markets. There is no large investment requirement, and they don't generate large cash flows. Often, dogs are phased out in an effort to salvage the organization.
What Is a Cash Dividend?  

A cash dividend is the distribution of funds or money paid to stockholders generally as part of the corporation's current earnings or accumulated profits.



Cash dividends are paid directly in money, as opposed to being paid as a stock dividend or other form of value. Most brokers offer a choice to reinvest or accept cash dividends.





Key Takeaways

A cash dividend is a payment made by a company to its stockholders in the form of periodic distributions of cash (as opposed to in stock or any other form)Cash dividends are often paid on a regular basis, such as monthly or quarterly, but are sometimes one-time-only payouts, such as after a settlement.Most brokers offer a choice to accept or reinvest cash dividends.Dividend-paying companies are typically established, with stable cash flow, and beyond the growth stage.Dividend reinvestment plans (DRIPs) are increasingly common among companies and brokers.


   How a Cash Dividend Works  

Cash dividends are a common way for companies to return capital to their shareholders in the form of periodic cash payments—typically, quarterly—but some stocks may pay these bonuses on a monthly, annual, or semiannual basis.



While many firms pay regular dividends, there are special cash dividends that are distributed to shareholders after certain nonrecurring events such as legal settlements or the borrowing of money for large, one-time cash distributions. Each company establishes its dividend policy and periodically assesses if a dividend cut or an increase is warranted. Cash dividends are paid on a per-share basis.


   The Timing of Cash Dividends  

A company's board of directors announces a cash dividend on a declaration date, which entails paying a certain amount of money per common share. After that notification, the record date is established, which is the date on which a firm determines its shareholders on record who are eligible to receive the payment.



In addition, stock exchanges or other appropriate securities organizations determine an ex-dividend date, which is typically two business days before the record date. An investor who bought common shares before the ex-dividend date is entitled to the announced cash dividend.






Investors must report dividend earnings, and they are taxable as income for the recipients—IRS Form 1099-DIV will list the total amount of reportable dividend earnings.


   Which Companies Pay Dividends?  

Companies that pay dividends typically enjoy stable cash flows, and their businesses are commonly beyond the growth stage. This business growth cycle partially explains why growth firms do not pay dividends—they need these funds to expand their operations, build factories, and increase their personnel.



Certain dividend-paying companies may go as far as establishing dividend payout targets, which are based on generated profits in a given year. For example, banks typically pay out a certain percentage of their profits in the form of cash dividends. If profits decline, the dividend policy can be amended or postponed to better times.






Cash dividends are a common way for companies to return capital to shareholders.


   Accounting for Cash Dividends  

When a corporation declares a dividend, it debits its retained earnings and credits a liability account called dividend payable. On the date of payment, the company reverses the dividend payable with a debit entry and credits its cash account for the respective cash outflow.



Cash dividends do not affect a company's income statement. However, they shrink a company's shareholders' equity and cash balance by the same amount. Firms must report any cash dividend as payments in the financing activity section of their cash flow statement.



The easiest way to compare cash dividends across companies is to look at the trailing 12-month (TTM) dividend yields, which are computed as a company's dividends per share for the most recent 12-month period divided by its current stock price. This computation standardizes the measure of cash dividends concerning the price of a common share.


   Cash Dividend Example  

Nike is a rather mature firm that pays quarterly cash dividends. In February 2022, the sportswear brand announced a $0.305 per share quarterly cash dividend payable Apr. 1, 2022. For fiscal year 2021, the company saw year-over-year (YOY) increased revenues of 19.3%. Meanwhile, earnings per share (EPS) rose 123%.




What Is a Stock Dividend?
Less common than cash dividends, stock dividends instead pay shareholders with additional shares of stock.




What Is a Special Dividend?
A special dividend is paid to shareholders outside of the regular dividend schedule. It may result from a windfall earnings, spin-off, or other corporate action that is seen as a one-off. In general, special dividends are rare but larger than ordinary dividends.




What Are Dividend Aristocrats?
A dividend aristocrat is a stock that increases its dividend for at least 25 consecutive years. Examples include AT&T, ExxonMobil, Caterpillar, 3M, and IBM, among others.
What Are Cash Equivalents?  

Cash equivalents are securities that are meant for short-term investing. Normally, they have solid credit quality and are highly liquid. True to their name, they are considered equivalent to cash because they can be converted to actual cash quickly.



The phrase "cash and cash equivalents" is found on balance sheets in the current assets section. Cash equivalents are one of three main asset classes in investing. The other two are stocks and bonds.



Cash equivalent securities have a low-risk, low-return profile.





Key Takeaways


Cash and cash equivalents are actual cash on hand and securities that are similar to cash.
The total for cash and cash equivalents is always shown on the top line of a company balance sheet because these current assets are the most liquid assets.
Stocks, bonds, and cash equivalents make up the three main asset classes in finance.
These low-risk securities include U.S. government T-bills, bank CDs, bankers' acceptances, corporate commercial paper, and other money market instruments.
The amount of cash and cash equivalents on hand speaks to a company's financial health as it reflects the ability to pay short-term obligations.













Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   Understanding Cash Equivalents  

Cash equivalents include U.S. government Treasury bills, bank certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances, corporate commercial paper, and other money market instruments. These financial instruments often have short maturities, highly liquid markets, and low risk.



Cash equivalents are an important indicator of a company’s financial well-being. Analysts can estimate the advisability of an investment in a particular company by the company's ability to access cash and convert cash equivalents quickly. Such liquidity reflects a company that is able to pay its bills. Companies with large amounts of cash and cash equivalents can be primary targets of bigger companies with acquisition plans.






When reported on financial statements, investments in these types of liquid accounts are often combined with cash and represent a company's total holding of money and liquid investments.


   Types of Cash Equivalents  
  Treasury Bills  

Treasury bills are commonly referred to as “T-bills." These are securities issued by the United States Department of the Treasury that mature in one year or less. Companies, financial institutions, and individuals who buy T-bills lend the government money which the government pays back upon maturity. T-bills are sold at a discount and redeemed at face value. The minimum purchase amount is $100 while the maximum is $10 million (for a non-competitive bid) or 35% of the offering amount (for a competitive bid). The yield of T-bills is the difference between the purchase price and the value at redemption.


  Commercial Paper  

Commercial paper is short-term (less than a year), unsecured debt used by big companies to raise funds to meet short-term liabilities such as payroll. Corporations issue commercial paper at a discount from face value and promise to pay the full face value on the maturity date designated on the note. Maturities range from one to 270 days.


  Marketable Securities  

Marketable securities are financial assets and instruments that can easily be converted into cash and are therefore very liquid. They are traded on public exchanges and there is usually a strong secondary market for them. Marketable securities can have maturities of one year or less and the rates at which these may be traded has a minimal effect on prices. Examples of marketable securities include T-Bills, CDs, bankers' acceptances, commercial paper, stocks, bonds, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs).


  Money Market Funds  

Money market funds are mutual funds that invest only in cash and cash equivalents. They are very liquid investments with excellent credit quality. Money market funds are an efficient and effective tool that companies and organizations use to manage their money since they tend to be more stable compared to other types of funds, such as mutual funds. A money market fund's share price is always $1 per share. Money market funds invest in cash equivalents.


  Short-Term Government Bonds  

Short-term government bonds are considered by some to be cash equivalents because they are very liquid, actively traded securities. They are issued by a government to fund government projects. Investors should be sure to consider political risks, interest rate risks, and inflation when investing in government bonds.


  Certificate of Deposit (CD)  

A certificate of deposit is a type of savings account with a financial institution. It represents a certain amount of a saver's capital that can't be accessed by the saver for a specific period of time. In return for the use of their capital, the financial institution pays savers a fixed rate of interest. Savers can choose from CD terms ranging from one-month to five-years. A CD is considered a very safe investment and is insured up to $250,000 when purchased at a federally-insured bank. Should the saver need their money, they may be able to break the CD contract by paying a fee or interest penalty.


  Banker's Acceptance  

A banker's acceptance is a form of payment that is guaranteed by a bank rather than an individual account holder. Because the bank guarantees payments, this short-term issuance by a bank is considered to be cash. Bankers' acceptances are frequently used to facilitate transactions where there is little risk for either party.





What's Not a Cash Equivalent

Some current assets, though short-term, aren't considered to be cash equivalents if they're prohibited from being converted to cash or if they can't readily be turned into cash. Such assets include:Credit collateralInventoryCDs with contracts that can't be brokenPrepaid assetsAccounts receivable


   Features of Cash Equivalents  

Different types of cash equivalents usually have the same characteristics. Those characteristics include:



Liquidity: Cash equivalents must trade in liquid markets. That's because these investments must be very easy to convert to cash. If an investment is not liquid, it cannot be considered a cash equivalent. For example, a CD that doesn't allow for early redemption before the maturity date is not a cash equivalent. However, many CDs allow for early redemption with the payment of a fee or relinquishment of a certain amount of interest. 
Short-Term Investment: Cash equivalents must be convertible to cash quickly. Therefore, the term of the investment is often very short. Cash equivalents are often considered the most liquid current asset behind cash.
Low-Risk/Volatility: Cash equivalents are meant to be an efficient investment for cash on hand that doesn't carry a lot of risk. Though there are several considerations to take regarding default risk and FDIC insurance, cash equivalents are normally low risk, low volatility investments. 
Unrestricted Access: Conversion of cash equivalents to cash should be unrestricted. An investor should be able to convert their cash equivalent to cash on demand. The entire purpose of cash equivalents is to provide the same liquid benefits as cash. Investments with inflexible holding terms or a lack of liquidity are not cash equivalents.






As of Sep. 30, 2022, Berkshire Hathaway had $28,869,000,000 in cash and cash equivalents.


   Uses of Cash Equivalents  

There are several important reasons why a company should store some of its capital in cash equivalents.


  To Meet Short-Term Obligations  

Cash equivalents are part of the company's net working capital (current assets minus current liabilities), which it uses to pay invoices for operating expenses, buy inventory, cover debt-servicing, and make other purchases.


  To Build an Emergency Fund  

Like people, companies should maintain enough easily accessible cash to handle unexpected costs that might arise, for instance, when business is slow or the economy stumbles. Investing in cash equivalents gives companies the security of cash when they need it and earns them a return. The interest earned is usually higher than that earned from a basic bank account and provides some protection against inflation.


  To Be Ready for Future Projects  

Companies may intentionally carry higher balances of cash equivalents so they can capitalize on business opportunities when they arise. Instead of locking capital into a long-term, illiquid, and maybe volatile investment, a company can choose to invest added cash in cash equivalents in the event it needs funds quickly.


  As Required by Debt Agreements  

Some lenders may require that, in return for a loan, a company maintain a designated amount of liquid cash equivalents. This financial restriction is intended to protect the lender's financial interest should business slow. It can also result in better loan terms (due to less risk) for the company that agrees to it. Moreover, a company can benefit from the discipline of saving via cash equivalents.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Cash Equivalents  

While investing in cash equivalents has its benefits, they also come with several downsides.


  Advantages  

Cash equivalents can be a more efficient use of capital compared to keeping cash in a basic bank account. They often pay more interest even as they offer the same easy, convenient accessibility. 
These current assets are as reliable as cash and can be accessed quickly. As opposed to other types of financial or investment vehicles with long maturities or holding requirements, cash equivalents are not meant to be invested for long.
Many cash equivalent products have fixed rates of interest. For example, a certificate of deposit guarantees an investor a certain rate for a specific period of time, yielding a fixed income. This interest rate and income security may be desirable for certain savers. Fees or fines may apply for early redemptions.


  Disadvantages  

Though cash equivalents can earn higher interest rates than cash in a bank account, they usually earn much less compared to other, longer term, less liquid investments. For capital growth and to increase the value of a business, an appropriate amount of money should be invested in the company or higher yielding (higher risk) investments. 
Cash equivalents are subject to risk, even if that risk is low. A cash equivalent is backed by its issuer, whether that's a government or corporation. Should that entity default, the investor may not receive the agreed-upon return. FDIC insurance, for depositors at federally-insured financial institutions, covers principal and accrued interest (through the date of failure) only up to $250,000.
Fees or fines may apply for early redemptions of certain cash equivalents, such as CDs.


  Cash Equivalent Quick Reference Comparison  



Pros

Earns higher rate compared to cash in many savings accounts
Is highly liquid
May offer fixed rates of interest
Are generally considered to be safe investments



Cons

Often earns a much lower rate of interest than longer-term, less liquid investments
Still subject to risk of default by the issuing entity
May not be covered by federal insurance





   Example of Cash Equivalents  

In 2021, Microsoft invested in, held, and conducted transactions with cash equivalents throughout the year.



On March 9, 2021, Microsoft acquired ZeniMax Media Inc. for a purchase price of $8.1 billion. The purchase price included $768 million of cash and cash equivalents.The company held $130.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and other short-term investments at its fiscal year-end. Of that total, $14.224 billion was in cash and cash equivalents, an increase from $13.576 billion in 2020.The company stated that it believed cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments would be enough to continue to fund operating activities.




How Are Cash Equivalents Used?
If a company has excess cash on hand, it might invest it in a cash equivalent called a money market fund. This fund is a collection of short-term investments (i.e., generally, with maturities of six months or less) that earns a higher yield than money in a bank account. When the company decides it needs cash, it sells a portion of its money market fund holdings and transfers the proceeds to its operating account.




Why Are Cash Equivalents Important?
Cash equivalents strike a balance between investing, risk, and liquidity. They give a company easy access to cash should it need it quickly. In addition, cash equivalents allow companies to earn some amount of interest as they plan how to use their money in the long-term.




What Is the Difference Between Cash and Cash Equivalents?
Cash is ownership of actual U.S. dollars or other currencies. Cash equivalents are interest-earning financial vehicles/investments that are widely traded, highly liquid, and easy to convert to cash. Cash equivalents are not identical to cash in hand, though they have such low risk and high liquidity that they're often considered as accessible.


   The Bottom Line  

If a company wants to earn some return on its money as it plans its long-term strategy, it can choose to invest some of its capital in cash equivalents. These very short-term, low risk, highly liquid investments may not make a tremendous amount of money. However, they earn more than cash in a bank account and can be converted into cash quickly and easily.
What Is Cash Flow?  

Cash flow is the net cash and cash equivalents transferred in and out of a company. Cash received represents inflows, while money spent represents outflows. A company creates value for shareholders through its ability to generate positive cash flows and maximize long-term free cash flow (FCF). FCF is the cash from normal business operations after subtracting any money spent on capital expenditures (CapEx).





Key Takeaways

Cash flow is the movement of money in and out of a company.Cash received signifies inflows, and cash spent is outflows.The cash flow statement is a financial statement that reports a company's sources and use of cash over time.A company's cash flow can be categorized as cash flows from operations, investing, and financing.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Cash Flow  

Businesses take in money from sales as revenues and spend money on expenses. They may also receive income from interest, investments, royalties, and licensing agreements and sell products on credit. Assessing cash flows is essential for evaluating a company’s liquidity, flexibility, and overall financial performance.



Positive cash flow indicates that a company's liquid assets are increasing, enabling it to cover obligations, reinvest in its business, return money to shareholders, pay expenses, and provide a buffer against future financial challenges. Companies with strong financial flexibility fare better in a downturn by avoiding the costs of financial distress.



Cash flows are analyzed using the cash flow statement, a standard financial statement that reports a company's cash source and use over a specified period. Corporate management, analysts, and investors use it to determine how well a company earns to pay its debts and manage its operating expenses. The cash flow statement is an important financial statement issued by a company, along with the balance sheet and income statement.






Net Cash Flow = Total Cash Inflows – Total Cash Outflows


   Cash Flow Statement  

The cash flow statement acts as a corporate checkbook to reconcile a company's balance sheet and income statement. The cash flow statement includes the "bottom line," recorded as the net increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents (CCE). The bottom line reports the overall change in the company's cash and its equivalents over the last period. The difference between the current CCE and that of the previous year or the previous quarter should have the same number as the number at the bottom of the statement of cash flows.



Below is Walmart's cash flow statement for the fiscal year ending on Jan. 31, 2019. All amounts are in millions of U.S. dollars.Investments in property, plant, and equipment (PP&E) and acquisitions of other businesses are accounted for in the cash flow from the investing activities section. Proceeds from issuing long-term debt, debt repayments, and dividends paid out are accounted for in the cash flow from the financing activities section.



Walmart's cash flow was positive, showing an increase of $742 million, which indicates that it has retained cash in the business and added to its reserves to handle short-term liabilities and fluctuations in the future.









Walmart Statement of Cash Flows (2019)




Cash flows from operating activities:
 


Consolidated net income
7,179


(Income) loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
—


Income from continuing operations
7,179


Adjustments to reconcile consolidated net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
 


Unrealized (gains) and losses
3,516


(Gains) and losses for disposal of business operations
4,850


Depreciation and amortization
10,678


Deferred income taxes
(499)


Other operating activities
1,734


Changes in certain assets and liabilities:
 


Receivables, net
(368)


Inventories
(1,311)


Accounts payable
1,831


Accrued liabilities
183


Accrued income taxes
(40)


Net cash provided by operating activities
27,753


 
 


Cash flows from investing activities:
 


Payments for property and equipment
(10,344)


Proceeds from the disposal of property and equipment
519


Proceeds from the disposal of certain operations
876


Payments for business acquisitions, net of cash acquired
(14,656)


Other investing activities
(431)


Net cash used in investing activities
(24,036)


 
 


Cash flows from financing activities:
 


Net change in short-term borrowings
(53)


Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
15,872


Payments of long-term debt
(3,784)


Dividends paid
(6,102)


Purchase of company stock
(7,410)


Dividends paid to noncontrolling interest
(431)


Other financing activities
(629)


Net cash used in financing activities
(2,537)


 
 


Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents
(438)


 
 


Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
742


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
7,014


Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
7,756





   Types of Cash Flow  
  Cash Flows From Operations (CFO)  

Cash flow from operations (CFO), or operating cash flow, describes money flows involved directly with the production and sale of goods from ordinary operations. CFO indicates whether or not a company has enough funds coming in to pay its bills or operating expenses.



Operating cash flow is calculated by taking cash received from sales and subtracting operating expenses that were paid in cash for the period. Operating cash flow is recorded on a company's cash flow statement, indicates whether a company can generate enough cash flow to maintain and expand operations, and shows when a company may need external financing for capital expansion.


  Cash Flows From Investing (CFI)  

Cash flow from investing (CFI) or investing cash flow reports how much cash has been generated or spent from various investment-related activities in a specific period. Investing activities include purchases of speculative assets, investments in securities, or sales of securities or assets.



Negative cash flow from investing activities might be due to significant amounts of cash being invested in the company, such as research and development (R&D), and is not always a warning sign.


  Cash Flows From Financing (CFF)  

Cash flows from financing (CFF), or financing cash flow, shows the net flows of cash used to fund the company and its capital. Financing activities include transactions involving issuing debt, equity, and paying dividends. Cash flow from financing activities provides investors insight into a company’s financial strength and how well its capital structure is managed.


   How to Analyze Cash Flows  

Using the cash flow statement in conjunction with other financial statements can help analysts and investors arrive at various metrics and ratios used to make informed decisions and recommendations.



Free Cash Flow: FCF is a measure of financial performance and shows what money the company has left over to expand the business or return to shareholders after paying dividends, buying back stock, or paying off debt.
Unlevered Free Cash Flow: UFCF measures the gross FCF generated by a firm that excludes interest payments, and shows how much cash is available to the firm before financial obligations.
Operating Cash Flow: OCF is money generated by a company’s primary business operation. 
Cash Flow to Net Income Ratio: The ratio of a firm’s net cash flow and net income with an optimum goal of 1:1.
Current Liability Coverage Ratio: This ratio determines the company’s ability to pay off its current liabilities with the cash flow from operations.
Price to Money Flow Ratio: The operating money flow per share is divided by the stock price.




How Are Cash Flows Different Than Revenues?
Revenue is the income earned from selling goods and services. If an item is sold on credit or via a subscription payment plan, money may not yet be received from those sales and are booked as accounts receivable. These do not represent actual cash flows into the company at the time. Cash flows also track outflows and inflows and categorize them by the source or use.




What Is the Difference Between Cash Flow and Profit?
Cash flow isn't the same as profit. Profit is specifically used to measure a company's financial success or how much money it makes overall. This is the amount of money that is left after a company pays off all its obligations. Profit is found by subtracting a company's expenses from its revenues.




What Is Free Cash Flow and Why Is It Important?
Free cash flow is left over after a company pays for its operating expenses and CapEx. It is the remaining money after items like payroll, rent, and taxes. Companies are free to use FCF as they please.




Do Companies Need to Report a Cash Flow Statement?
The cash flow statement complements the balance sheet and income statement and is part of a public company's financial reporting requirements since 1987.




Why Is the Price-to-Cash Flows Ratio Used?
The price-to-cash flow (P/CF) ratio is a stock multiple that measures the value of a stock’s price relative to its operating cash flow per share. This ratio uses operating cash flow, which adds back non-cash expenses such as depreciation and amortization to net income.P/CF is especially useful for valuing stocks with positive cash flow but are not profitable because of large non-cash charges.


   The Bottom Line  

Cash flow refers to money that goes in and out. Companies with a positive cash flow have more money coming in, while a negative cash flow indicates higher spending. Net cash flow equals the total cash inflows minus the total cash outflows.
What Is Cash Flow From Financing Activities?  

Cash flow from financing activities (CFF) is a section of a company’s cash flow statement, which shows the net flows of cash that are used to fund the company. Financing activities include transactions involving debt, equity, and dividends.



Cash flow from financing activities provides investors with insight into a company’s financial strength and how well a company's capital structure is managed.


   Formula and Calculation for CFF  

Investors and analyst will use the following formula and calculation to determine if a business is on sound financial footing.



﻿















CFF = CED 


−


 (CD + RP)
















where:
















CED = Cash in flows from issuing equity or debt
















CD = Cash paid as dividends
















RP = Repurchase of debt and equity








\begin{aligned} &\text{CFF = CED }-\text{ (CD + RP)}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{CED = Cash in flows from issuing equity or debt}\\ &\text{CD = Cash paid as dividends}\\ &\text{RP = Repurchase of debt and equity}\\ \end{aligned}


​CFF = CED − (CD + RP)where:CED = Cash in flows from issuing equity or debtCD = Cash paid as dividendsRP = Repurchase of debt and equity​﻿



Add cash inflows from the issuing of debt or equity.Add all cash outflows from stock repurchases, dividend payments, and repayment of debt.Subtract the cash outflows from the inflows to arrive at the cash flow from financing activities for the period.



As an example, let's say a company has the following information in the financing activities section of its cash flow statement:



Repurchase stock: $1,000,000 (cash outflow)Proceeds from long-term debt: $3,000,000 (cash inflow)Payments to long-term debt: $500,000 (cash outflow)Payments of dividends: $400,000 (cash outflow)



Thus, CFF would be as follows:



$3,000,000 - ($1,000,000 + $500,000 + $400,000), or $1,100,000





Key Takeaways

Cash flow from financing activities is a section of a company’s cash flow statement, which shows the net flows of cash that are used to fund the company. Financing activities include transactions involving debt, equity, and dividends. Debt and equity financing are reflected in the cash flow from financing section, which varies with the different capital structures, dividend policies, or debt terms that companies may have.


   Cash Flow in the Financial Statement  

The cash flow statement is one of the three main financial statements that show the state of a company's financial health. The other two important statements are the balance sheet and income statement. The balance sheet shows the assets and liabilities as well as shareholder equity at a particular date. Also known as the profit and loss statement, the income statement focuses on business income and expenses. The cash flow statement measures the cash generated or used by a company during a given period. The cash flow statement has three sections:



Cash flow from operating (CFO) indicates the amount of cash that a company brings in from its regular business activities or operations. This section includes accounts receivable, accounts payable, amortization, depreciation, and other items.
Cash flow from investing (CFI) reflects a company's purchases and sales of capital assets. CFI reports the aggregate change in the business cash position as a result of profits and losses from investments in items like plant and equipment. These items are considered long-term investments in the business.
Cash flow from financing activities (CFF) measures the movement of cash between a firm and its owners, investors, and creditors. This report shows the net flow of funds used to run the company including debt, equity, and dividends.



Investors can also get information about CFF activities from the balance sheet’s equity and long-term debt sections and possibly the footnotes.


   Capital From Debt or Equity  

CFF indicates the means through which a company raises cash to maintain or grow its operations. A company's source of capital can be from either debt or equity. When a company takes on debt, it typically does so by issuing bonds or taking a loan from the bank. Either way, it must make interest payments to its bondholders and creditors to compensate them for loaning their money.



When a company goes through the equity route, it issues stock to investors who purchase the stock for a share in the company. Some companies make dividend payments to shareholders, which represents a cost of equity for the firm.


   Positive and Negative CFF  

Debt and equity financing are reflected in the cash flow from financing section, which varies with the different capital structures, dividend policies, or debt terms that companies may have.


  Transactions That Cause Positive Cash Flow From Financing Activities  

Issuing equity or stock, which is sold to investorsBorrowing debt from a creditor or bankIssuing bonds, which is debt that investors purchase



A positive number for cash flow from financing activities means more money is flowing into the company than flowing out, which increases the company’s assets.


  Transactions That Cause Negative Cash Flow From Financing Activities  

Stock repurchasesDividendsPaying down debt



Negative CFF numbers can mean the company is servicing debt, but can also mean the company is retiring debt or making dividend payments and stock repurchases, which investors might be glad to see.


   Investor Warnings From CFF  

A company that frequently turns to new debt or equity for cash might show positive cash flow from financing activities. However, it might be a sign that the company is not generating enough earnings. Also, as interest rates rise, debt servicing costs rise as well. It is important that investors dig deeper into the numbers because a positive cash flow might not be a good thing for a company already saddled with a large amount of debt.



Conversely, if a company is repurchasing stock and issuing dividends while the company's earnings are underperforming, it may be a warning sign. The company's management might be attempting to prop up its stock price, keeping investors happy, but their actions may not be in the long-term best interest of the company.



Any significant changes in cash flow from financing activities should prompt investors to investigate the transactions. When analyzing a company's cash flow statement, it is important to consider each of the various sections that contribute to the overall change in its cash position.


   Real-World Example  

Companies report cash flow from financing activities in their annual 10-K reports to shareholders. For example, for the fiscal year ended Jan. 31, 2022, Walmart's cash flow from financing activities resulted in a net cash flow of -$22.83 billion. The components of its financing activities for the year are listed in the table below.









Cash flows from Financing Activities:
(in USD millions)


Net change in short-term borrowings
193


Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
6,945


Repayments of long-term debt
(13,010)


Premiums paid to extinguish debt
(2,317)


Dividends paid
(6,152)


Purchase of Company stock
(9,787)


Dividends paid to noncontrolling interest
(424)


Sale of subsidiary stock
3,239


Other financing activities
(1,515)


Net cash used in financing activities
(22,828)






We can see that the majority of Walmart's cash outflows were due to repayments of long-term debt of $13.010 billion, the purchase of company stock for $9.787 billion, and dividends paid for $6.152 billion. Although the net cash flow total is negative for the period, the transactions would be viewed as positive by investors and the market.
What Is Cash Flow From Investing Activities?  

Cash flow from investing activities (CFI) is one of the sections on the cash flow statement that reports how much cash has been generated or spent from various investment-related activities in a specific period. Investing activities include purchases of physical assets, investments in securities, or the sale of securities or assets.



Negative cash flow is often indicative of a company's poor performance. However, negative cash flow from investing activities might be due to significant amounts of cash being invested in the long-term health of the company, such as research and development.





Key Takeaways

Cash flow from investing activities is a section of the cash flow statement that shows the cash generated or spent relating to investment activities.Investing activities include purchases of physical assets, investments in securities, or the sale of securities or assets.Negative cash flow from investing activities might not be a bad sign if management is investing in the long-term health of the company.


   Understanding Cash Flow From Investing Activities  

Before analyzing the different types of positive and negative cash flows from investing activities, it's important to review where a company's investment activity falls within its financial statements. There are three main financial statements: the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement.



The balance sheet provides an overview of a company's assets, liabilities, and owner's equity as of a specific date. The income statement provides an overview of company revenues and expenses during a period. The cash flow statement bridges the gap between the income statement and the balance sheet by showing how much cash is generated or spent on operating, investing, and financing activities for a specific period.


   Types of Cash Flow  

Overall, the cash flow statement provides an account of the cash used in operations, including working capital, financing, and investing. There are three sections–labeled activities–on the cash flow statement.


  Cash Flow From Operating  

Operating activities include any spending or sources of cash that are involved in a company's day-to-day business activities. Any cash spent or generated from the company's products or services is listed in this section, including:



Cash received from the sale of goods and servicesInterest paymentsSalary and wages paidPayments to suppliers for inventory or goods needed for productionIncome tax payments


  Cash Flow From Financing  

Cash generated or spent on financing activities shows the net cash flows involved in funding the company's operations. Financing activities include:



Dividend payments
Stock repurchases
Bond offerings–generating cash


  Cash Flow From Investing  

Cash flows from investing activities provide an account of cash used in the purchase of non-current assets–or long-term assets– that will deliver value in the future. 



Investing activity is an important aspect of growth and capital. A change to property, plant, and equipment (PPE), a large line item on the balance sheet, is considered an investing activity. When investors and analysts want to know how much a company spends on PPE, they can look for the sources and uses of funds in the investing section of the cash flow statement.



Capital expenditures (CapEx), also found in this section, is a popular measure of capital investment used in the valuation of stocks. An increase in capital expenditures means the company is investing in future operations. However, capital expenditures are a reduction in cash flow. Typically, companies with a significant amount of capital expenditures are in a state of growth.



Below are a few examples of cash flows from investing activities along with whether the items generate negative or positive cash flow.



Purchase of fixed assets–cash flow negative
Purchase of investments such as stocks or securities–cash flow negative
Lending money–cash flow negative
Sale of fixed assets–cash flow positive
Sale of investment securities–cash flow positive
Collection of loans and insurance proceeds–cash flow positive






If a company has differences in the values of its non-current assets from period to period (on the balance sheet), it might mean there's investing activity on the cash flow statement.


   Example of Cash Flow From Investing Activities  

Below is the cash flow statement from Apple Inc. (AAPL) according to the company's 10-Q report issued on June 29, 2019.



The three sections of Apple's statement of cash flows are listed with operating activities at the top and financing activities at the bottom of the statement (highlighted in orange). In the center, are the investing activities (highlighted in blue).



Investing activities that were cash flow negative are highlighted in red and include:



Purchases of marketable securities for $21.9 billionPayments acquiring property, plant, and equipment for $7.7 billionPayments for business acquisitions and non-marketable securities



Investing activities that were cash flow positive are highlighted in green and include:



Proceeds from maturities of marketable securities for $26.7 billionProceeds from the sale of marketable securities for $49.5 billion



The net cash flows generated from investing activities were $46.6 billion for the period ending June 29, 2019. Overall Apple had a positive cash flow from investing activity despite spending nearly $8 billion on new property, plant, and equipment.















Cash Flow Statement Investing Activities Example: Apple Inc.
 Investopedia



As with any financial statement analysis, it's best to analyze the cash flow statement in tandem with the balance sheet and income statement to get a complete picture of a company's financial health.




What Activities Are Included in Cash Flow From Investing Activities?
The activities included in cash flow from investing actives are capital expenditures, lending money, and the sale of investment securities. Along with this, expenditures in property, plant, and equipment fall within this category as they are a long-term investment.




How Do You Calculate Cash Flow From Investing Activities?
Consider a hypothetical example of Google's net annual cash flow from investing activities. For the year, the company spent $30 billion on capital expenditures, of which the majority were fixed assets. Along with this, it purchased $5 billion in investments and spent $1 billion on acquisitions. The company also realized a positive inflow of $3 billion from the sale of investments. To calculate the cash flow from investing activities, the sum of these items would be added together, to arrive at the annual figure of -$33 billion.




Why Is Cash Flow From Investing Activities Important?
Cash flow from investing activities is important because it shows how a company is allocating cash for the long term. For instance, a company may invest in fixed assets such as property, plant, and equipment to grow the business. While this signals a negative cash flow from investing activities in the short term, it may help the company generate cash flow in the longer term. A company may also choose to invest cash in short-term marketable securities to help boost profit.
What Is Cash Flow From Operating Activities (CFO)?  

Cash flow from operating activities (CFO) indicates the amount of money a company brings in from its ongoing, regular business activities, such as manufacturing and selling goods or providing a service to customers. It is the first section depicted on a company's cash flow statement.



Cash flow from operating activities does not include long-term capital expenditures or investment revenue and expense. CFO focuses only on the core business, and is also known as operating cash flow (OCF) or net cash from operating activities.





Key Takeaways

Cash flow from operating activities is an important benchmark to determine the financial success of a company's core business activities.Cash flow from operating activities is the first section depicted on a cash flow statement, which also includes cash from investing and financing activities. There are two methods for depicting cash from operating activities on a cash flow statement: the indirect method and the direct method.The indirect method begins with net income from the income statement then adds back noncash items to arrive at a cash basis figure.The direct method tracks all transactions in a period on a cash basis and uses actual cash inflows and outflows on the cash flow statement.












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Understanding Cash Flow From Operating Activities (CFO)  

Cash flow forms one of the most important parts of business operations and accounts for the total amount of money being transferred into and out of a business. Since it affects the company's liquidity, it has significance for multiple reasons. It allows business owners and operators check where the money is coming from and going to, it helps them take steps to generate and maintain sufficient cash necessary for operational efficiency and other necessary needs, and it helps in making key and efficient financing decisions.



The details about the cash flow of a company are available in its cash flow statement, which is part of a company's quarterly and annual reports. The cash flow from operating activities depicts the cash-generating abilities of a company's core business activities. It typically includes net income from the income statement and adjustments to modify net income from an accrual accounting basis to a cash accounting basis.



Cash availability allows a business the option to expand, build and launch new products, buy back shares to affirm their strong financial position, pay out dividends to reward and bolster shareholder confidence, or reduce debt to save on interest payments. Investors attempt to look for companies whose share prices are lower and cash flow from operations is showing an upward trend over recent quarters. The disparity indicates that the company has increasing levels of cash flow which, if better utilized, can lead to higher share prices in near future.



Positive (and increasing) cash flow from operating activities indicates that the core business activities of the company are thriving. It provides as additional measure/indicator of profitability potential of a company, in addition to the traditional ones like net income or EBITDA.


   Cash Flow Statement  

The cash flow statement is one of the three main financial statements required in standard financial reporting- in addition to the income statement and balance sheet. The cash flow statement is divided into three sections—cash flow from operating activities, cash flow from investing activities, and cash flow from financing activities. Collectively, all three sections provide a picture of where the company's cash comes from, how it is spent, and the net change in cash resulting from the firm's activities during a given accounting period.



The cash flow from investing section shows the cash used to purchase fixed and long-term assets, such as plant, property, and equipment (PPE), as well as any proceeds from the sale of these assets. The cash flow from financing section shows the source of a company's financing and capital as well as its servicing and payments on the loans. For example, proceeds from the issuance of stocks and bonds, dividend payments, and interest payments will be included under financing activities.



Investors examine a company’s cash flow from operating activities, within the cash flow statement, to determine where a company is getting its money from. In contrast to investing and financing activities which may be one-time or sporadic revenue, the operating activities are core to the business and are recurring in nature.


   Types of Cash Flow from Operating Activities  

The cash flow from operating activities section can be displayed on the cash flow statement in one of two ways.


  Indirect Method  

The first option is the indirect method, where the company begins with net income on an accrual accounting basis and works backwards to achieve a cash basis figure for the period. Under the accrual method of accounting, revenue is recognized when earned, not necessarily when cash is received.



For example, if a customer buys a $500 widget on credit, the sale has been made but the cash has not yet been received. The revenue is still recognized by the company in the month of the sale, and it shows up in net income on its income statement.



Therefore, net income was overstated by this amount on a cash basis. The offset to the $500 of revenue would appear in the accounts receivable line item on the balance sheet. On the cash flow statement, there would need to be a reduction from net income in the amount of the $500 increase to accounts receivable due to this sale. It would be displayed on the cash flow statement as "Increase in Accounts Receivable -$500."


  Direct Method  

The second option is the direct method, in which a company records all transactions on a cash basis and displays the information on the cash flow statement using actual cash inflows and outflows during the accounting period.



Examples of the direct method of cash flows from operating activities include:



Salaries paid out to employeesCash paid to vendors and suppliersCash collected from customersInterest income and dividends receivedIncome tax paid and interest paid


   Indirect Method vs. Direct Method  

Many accountants prefer the indirect method because it is simple to prepare the cash flow statement using information from the income statement and balance sheet. Most companies use the accrual method of accounting, so the income statement and balance sheet will have figures consistent with this method.



The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) recommends that companies use the direct method as it offers a clearer picture of cash flows in and out of a business. However, as an added complexity of the direct method, the FASB also requires a business using the direct method to disclose the reconciliation of net income to the cash flow from operating activities that would have been reported if the indirect method had been used to prepare the statement.



The reconciliation report is used to check the accuracy of the cash from operating activities, and it is similar to the indirect method. The reconciliation report begins by listing the net income and adjusting it for noncash transactions and changes in the balance sheet accounts. This added task makes the direct method unpopular among companies.


   Indirect Method Formulas for Calculating Cash Flow from Operating Activities  

Different reporting standards are followed by companies as well as the different reporting entities which may lead to different calculations under the indirect method. Depending upon the available figures, the CFO value can be calculated by one of the following formulas, as both yield the same result:



Cash Flow from Operating Activities = Funds from Operations + Changes in Working Capital



where, Funds from Operations = (Net Income + Depreciation, Depletion, & Amortization + Deferred Taxes & Investment Tax Credit + Other Funds)



This format is used for reporting Cash Flow details by finance portals like MarketWatch.



Or



Cash Flow from Operating Activities = Net Income + Depreciation, Depletion, & Amortization + Adjustments To Net Income + Changes In Accounts Receivables + Changes In Liabilities + Changes In Inventories + Changes In Other Operating Activities



This format is used for reporting Cash Flow details by finance portals like Yahoo! Finance.



All the above mentioned figures included above are available as standard line items in the cash flow statements of various companies.



The net income figure comes from the income statement. Since it is prepared on an accrual basis, the noncash expenses recorded on the income statement, such as depreciation and amortization, are added back to the net income. In addition, any changes in balance sheet accounts are also added to or subtracted from the net income to account for the overall cash flow.



Inventories, tax assets, accounts receivable, and accrued revenue are common items of assets for which a change in value will be reflected in cash flow from operating activities. Accounts payable, tax liabilities, deferred revenue, and accrued expenses are common examples of liabilities for which a change in value is reflected in cash flow from operations.



From one reporting period to the next, any positive change in assets is backed out of the net income figure for cash flow calculations, while a positive change in liabilities is added back into net income for cash flow calculations. Essentially, an increase in an asset account, such as accounts receivable, means that revenue has been recorded that has not actually been received in cash. On the other hand, an increase in a liability account, such as accounts payable, means that an expense has been recorded for which cash has not yet been paid.


   Example of Cash Flow from Operating Activities  

Let’s look at the cash flow details of the leading technology company Apple Inc. (AAPL) for the fiscal year ended September 2018. The iPhone maker had a net income of $59.53 billion, Depreciation, Depletion, & Amortization of $10.9 billion, Deferred Taxes & Investment Tax Credit of -$32.59 billion, and Other Funds of $4.9 billion.



Following the first formula, the summation of these numbers brings the value for Fund from Operations as $42.74 billion. The net Change in Working Capital for the same period was $34.69 billion. Adding it to Fund from Operations gives the Cash Flow from Operating Activities for Apple as $77.43 billion.



For the second method, summing up the available values from Yahoo! Finance portal that reports Apple's FY 2018 Net Income $59.531 billion, Depreciation $10.903 billion, Adjustments To Net Income -$27.694 billion, Changes In Accounts Receivables -$5.322 billion, Changes In Liabilities 9.131 billion, Changes In Inventories $.828 billion, and Changes In Other Operating Activities $30.057 billion gives the net CFO value as $77.434 billion.



Both the methods yield the same value.


   Special Considerations  

One must note that working capital is an important component of cash flow from operations, and companies can manipulate working capital by delaying the bill payments to suppliers, accelerating the collection of bills from customers, and delaying the purchase of inventory. All these measures allow a company to retain cash. Companies also have the liberty to set their own capitalization thresholds, which allow them to set the dollar amount at which a purchase qualifies as a capital expenditure.



Investors should be aware of these considerations when comparing the cash flow of different companies. Due to such flexibility where managers are able to manipulate these figures to a certain extent, the cash flow from operations is more commonly used for reviewing a single company's performance over two reporting periods, rather than comparing one company to another, even if the two belong in the same industry.
What Is a Cash Flow Statement?  

A cash flow statement is a financial statement that provides aggregate data regarding all cash inflows that a company receives from its ongoing operations and external investment sources. It also includes all cash outflows that pay for business activities and investments during a given period. 



A company’s financial statements offer investors and analysts a portrait of all the transactions that go through the business, where every transaction contributes to its success. The cash flow statement is believed to be the most intuitive of all the financial statements because it follows the cash made by the business in three main ways: through operations, investment, and financing. The sum of these three segments is called net cash flow.



These three different sections of the cash flow statement can help investors determine the value of a company’s stock or the company as a whole.





Key Takeaways

A cash flow statement provides data regarding all cash inflows that a company receives from its ongoing operations and external investment sources.The cash flow statement includes cash made by the business through operations, investment, and financing—the sum of which is called net cash flow.The first section of the cash flow statement is cash flow from operations, which includes transactions from all operational business activities. Cash flow from investment is the second section of the cash flow statement, and is the result of investment gains and losses. Cash flow from financing is the final section, which provides an overview of cash used from debt and equity.












Laura Porter / Investopedia


   How Cash Flow Statements Work  

Every company that sells and offers its stock to the public must file financial reports and statements with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The three main financial statements are the balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement. The cash flow statement is an important document that helps interested parties gain insight into all the transactions that go through a company.



There are two different branches of accounting: accrual and cash. Most public companies use accrual accounting, which means that the income statement is not the same as the company’s cash position. The cash flow statement, though, is focused on cash accounting.



Profitable companies can fail to adequately manage cash flow, which is why the cash flow statement is a critical tool for companies, analysts, and investors. The cash flow statement is broken down into three different business activities: operations, investing, and financing.



Let’s consider a company that sells a product and extends credit for the sale to its customer. Even though It recognizes that sale as revenue, the company may not receive cash until a later date. The company earns a profit on the income statement and pays income taxes on it, but the business may bring in more or less cash than the sales or income figures.






Investors and analysts should use good judgment when evaluating changes to working capital, as some companies may try to boost up their cash flow before reporting periods.


   Cash Flows from Operations  

The first section of the cash flow statement covers cash flows from operating activities (CFO) and includes transactions from all operational business activities. The cash flows from operations section begins with net income, then reconciles all non-cash items to cash items involving operational activities. In other words, it is the company’s net income, but in a cash version.



This section reports cash flows and outflows that stem directly from a company’s main business activities. These activities may include buying and selling inventory and supplies, along with paying its employees their salaries. Any other forms of inflows and outflows such as investments, debts, and dividends are not included.



Companies are able to generate sufficient positive cash flow for operational growth. If not enough is generated, they may need to secure financing for external growth to expand.



For example, accounts receivable is a non-cash account. If accounts receivable go up during a period, it means sales are up, but no cash was received at the time of sale. The cash flow statement deducts receivables from net income because it is not cash. The cash flows from the operations section can also include accounts payable, depreciation, amortization, and numerous prepaid items booked as revenue or expenses, but with no associated cash flow.


   Cash Flows from Investing  

This is the second section of the cash flow statement. It looks at cash flows from investing (CFI) and is the result of investment gains and losses. This section also includes cash spent on property, plants, and equipment. This section is where analysts look to find changes in capital expenditures (CapEx).



When CapEx increases, it generally means there is a reduction in cash flow. But that’s not always a bad thing, as it may indicate that a company is making investment into its future operations. Companies with high CapEx tend to be those that are growing.



While positive cash flows within this section can be considered good, investors would prefer companies that generate cash flow from business operations—not through investing and financing activities. Companies can generate cash flow within this section by selling equipment or property. 


   Cash Flows from Financing  

Cash flows from financing (CFF) is the last section of the cash flow statement. The section provides an overview of cash used in business financing. It measures cash flow between a company and its owners and its creditors, and its source is normally from debt or equity. These figures are generally reported annually on a company’s 10-K report to shareholders.



Analysts use the cash flows from financing section to determine how much money the company has paid out via dividends or share buybacks. It is also useful to help determine how a company raises cash for operational growth.



Cash obtained or paid back from capital fundraising efforts, such as equity or debt, is listed here, as are loans taken out or paid back. 



When the cash flow from financing is a positive number, it means there is more money coming into the company than flowing out. When the number is negative, it may mean the company is paying off debt or is making dividend payments and/or stock buybacks.




Which Kinds of Cash Flows Show Up in Operations?
Cash inflows and outflows from business activities such as buying and selling inventory and supplies, paying salaries, accounts payable, depreciation, amortization, and prepaid items booked as revenues and expenses.




When Capital Expenditures Increase, What Happens to Cash Flow?
Generally, cash flow is reduced, as the cash has been used to invest in future operations, thus promoting future growth of the company.




What Does a Negative Cash Flow From Financing Mean?
A negative number can show that a company is paying off debt, making dividend payments or buying back its stock.


   The Bottom Line  

The cash flow statement has three key sections: cash flow from operations, cash flow from investments and cash flow from financing. Even if the business uses accrual accounting as its main reporting system, the cash flow statement is focused on cash accounting. The cash flow statement enables managers, analysts, and investors to assess how well a company is doing. Overall investors prefer that companies generate the bulk of their cash flow from operations, rather than from investments and financing.
What Is Cash Management?  

The term cash management refers to the process of collecting and managing cash flows. Cash management can be important for both individuals and companies. It is a key component of a company's financial stability in business. Cash is also essential for people's financial stability while also usually considered as part of a total wealth portfolio. Individuals and businesses have different options to help them with their cash management needs, including banks to hold their cash assets. Cash management solutions are also available for anyone who wants the best return on cash assets or the most efficient use of cash comprehensively.





Key Takeaways

Cash management is the process of managing cash inflows and outflows.There are many cash management considerations and solutions available in the financial marketplace for both individuals and businesses.Individuals can use options like banks and financial institutions for their cash management needs.For businesses, the cash flow statement is a central component of cash flow management.The cash flow statement is a central component of corporate cash flow management.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   How Cash Management Works  

Cash is among the primary assets that individuals and companies use to pay their obligations and invest. Managing cash is what entities do on a day-to-day basis to take care of the inflows and outflows of their money. Proper cash management can improve an entity's financial situation and liquidity problems.



For individuals, maintaining cash balances while also earning a return on idle cash is usually a top concern. In business, companies have cash inflows and outflows that must be prudently managed in order to:



Meet payment obligations
Plan for future payments
Maintain adequate business stability



Corporate cash management involves the use of business managers, corporate treasurers, and chief financial officers (CFOs). These professionals are mainly responsible to implement and oversee cash management strategies and stability analysis. Many companies may outsource part or all of their cash management responsibilities to different service providers. Regardless, there are several key metrics that are monitored and analyzed by cash management executives on a daily, monthly, quarterly, and annual basis.






Cash management may also be known in some parts of the financial industry as treasury management.


   The Importance of the Cash Flow Statement in Cash Management  

The cash flow statement is a central component of corporate cash flow management. While it is often transparently reported to stakeholders on a quarterly basis, parts of it are usually maintained and tracked internally on a daily basis.



The cash flow statement comprehensively records all of a business’s cash flows. It includes:



Cash received from accounts receivable (AR)
Cash paid for accounts payable (AP)
Cash paid for investing
Cash paid for financing



The bottom line of the cash flow statement reports how much cash a company has readily available.



The cash flow statement is broken down into three parts: operating, investing, and financing. The operating portion of cash activities tends to vary based heavily on the net working capital which is reported on the cash flow statement as a company’s current assets minus current liabilities. The other two sections of the cash flow statement are somewhat more straightforward with cash inflows and outflows pertaining to investing and financing.


   Managing Cash Through Internal Controls  

There are many internal controls used to manage and ensure efficient business cash flows. Internal controls are various accounting and auditing mechanisms that companies can use to ensure that their financial reporting is compliant with regulations. These tools, resources, and procedures improve operational efficiency and prevent fraud.



Some of a company’s top cash flow considerations include the:



Average length of AR
Collection processes
Write-offs for uncollected receivables
Liquidity and rates of return (RoR) on cash equivalent investments
Credit line management
Available operating cash levels


   Cash Management of Working Capital  

Cash flows pertaining to operating activities are generally heavily focused on working capital, which is impacted by AR and AP changes. Investing and financing cash flows are usually extraordinary cash events that involve special procedures for funds.



A company’s working capital is the result of its current assets minus current liabilities. Working capital balances are important in cash flow management because they show the number of current assets a company has to cover its current liabilities.



Working capital generally includes the following:



Current Assets: Cash, accounts receivable within one year, inventoryCurrent Liabilities: All accounts payable that are due within one year and short-term debt payments that come due within one year






Companies strive to have current asset balances that exceed current liability balances. If current liabilities exceed current assets a company would likely need to access its reserve lines for its payables.



Companies usually report the change in working capital from one reporting period to the next within the operating section of the cash flow statement. If a company has a positive net change in working capital, it increases its current assets to cover its current liabilities, thereby increasing the total cash on the bottom line. A negative change means a company increases its current liabilities, which reduces its ability to pay them efficiently and its total cash on the bottom line.



There are several things a company can do to improve both receivables and payables efficiency, ultimately leading to higher working capital and better operating cash flow. Companies that operate with invoice billing can reduce the days payable or offer discounts for quick payments. They may also choose to use technologies that facilitate faster and easier payments such as automated billing and electronic payments.



Advanced technology for payables management can also be helpful. Companies may choose to make automated bill payments or use direct payroll deposits to help improve payables cost efficiency.


   Cash Management and Solvency Ratios  

Companies can also regularly monitor and analyze liquidity and solvency ratios within cash management. External stakeholders find these ratios important for a variety of analysis purposes as well. The two main liquidity ratios analyzed in conjunction with cash management include the quick ratio and the current ratio.



The quick ratio is calculated from the following:



Quick Ratio = (Cash Equivalents + Marketable Securities + Accounts Receivable) ÷ Current Liabilities



The current ratio is a little more comprehensive. It is calculated from the following:



Current Ratio = Current assets ÷ Current Liabilities



Solvency ratios look at a company’s ability to meet all its obligations in the long term. Some of the most popular solvency ratios include debt to equity, debt to assets, cash flow to debt, and the interest coverage ratio.




Why Is Cash Management Important?
Cash management is the process of managing cash inflows and outflows. This process is important for individuals and businesses because cash is the primary asset used to invest and pay any liabilities. There are many cash management options available. Cash management not only provides entities with a window into their financial situations but it can also be used to improve their profitability by fixing their liquidity problems.




How Can You Improve Your Cash Management?
There are a number of ways an individual or business can improve their cash management. Some of these steps include improving their accounts receivables (increasing income, encouraging clients to pay early/on time), investing excess cash, seeking out better financing rates on debt, safeguarding bank accounts to prevent fraud, and implementing better accounts payable processes.




What Is an Example of Cash Management?
Cash management can come in various forms, including the improvement of accounts payable processes. Let's say a business has an existing (and good) relationship with a vendor. The two have been doing business with one another for the last five years. The vendor ships supplies to the business every month and requires payment on its invoices every 30 days. Since the two have an amicable relationship, the business negotiates payment for invoices every 45 days.


   The Bottom Line  

Cash management is the process of successfully taking care of cash inflows and outflows. It's a process that's important to individuals and also for businesses. Being able to do manage cash efficiently means that the entity can keep money in its reserves, pay off its financial obligations, and invest for future development.
What Is Cash-on-Cash Return?  

A cash-on-cash return is a rate of return often used in real estate transactions that calculates the cash income earned on the cash invested in a property. Put simply, cash-on-cash return measures the annual return the investor made on the property in relation to the amount of mortgage paid during the same year. It is considered relatively easy to understand and one of the most important real estate ROI calculations.





Key Takeaways

Cash-on-cash return measures the amount of cash flow relative to the amount of cash invested in a property investment and is calculated on a pre-tax basis.The cash-on-cash return metric measures only the return for the current period, typically one year, rather than for the life of the investment or project.Cash-on-cash return can also be used as a forecasting tool to set a target for projected earnings and expenses.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Cash-on-Cash Return  

A cash-on-cash return is a metric normally used to measure commercial real estate investment performance. It is sometimes referred to as the cash yield on a property investment. The cash-on-cash return rate provides business owners and investors with an analysis of the business plan for a property and the potential cash distributions over the life of the investment.



Cash-on-cash return analysis is often used for investment properties that involve long-term debt borrowing. When debt is included in a real estate transaction, as is the case with most commercial properties, the actual cash return on the investment differs from the standard return on investment (ROI).



Calculations based on standard ROI take into account the total return on an investment. Cash-on-cash return, on the other hand, only measures the return on the actual cash invested, providing a more accurate analysis of the investment's performance.



The formula for cash-on-cash is:


















Cash on Cash Return


=



Annual Pre-Tax Cash Flow


Total Cash Invested

















where:
















APTCF = (GSR + OI) – (V + OE + AMP)
















GSR = Gross scheduled rent
















OI = Other income
















V = Vacancy
















OE = Operating expenses
















AMP = Annual mortgage payments







\begin{aligned} &\text{Cash on Cash Return}=\frac{\text{Annual Pre-Tax Cash Flow}}{\text{Total Cash Invested}}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{APTCF = (GSR + OI) – (V + OE + AMP)}\\ &\text{GSR = Gross scheduled rent}\\ &\text{OI = Other income}\\ &\text{V = Vacancy}\\ &\text{OE = Operating expenses}\\ &\text{AMP = Annual mortgage payments}\\ \end{aligned}


​Cash on Cash Return=Total Cash InvestedAnnual Pre-Tax Cash Flow​where:APTCF = (GSR + OI) – (V + OE + AMP)GSR = Gross scheduled rentOI = Other incomeV = VacancyOE = Operating expensesAMP = Annual mortgage payments​


   Cash-on-Cash Return Example  

Cash-on-cash returns use an investment property's pre-tax cash inflows received by the investor and the pre-tax outflows paid by the investor. For example, suppose a commercial real estate investor invests in a piece of property that does not produce monthly income.



The total purchase price of the property is $1 million. The investor pays $100,000 cash as a down payment and borrows $900,000 from a bank. Due are closing fees, insurance premiums, and maintenance costs of $10,000, which the investor also pays out of pocket.



After one year, the investor has paid $25,000 in loan payments, of which $5,000 is a principal repayment. The investor decides to sell the property for $1.1 million after one year. This means the investor's total cash outflow is $135,000, and after the debt of $895,000 is repaid, he is left with a cash inflow of $205,000. The investor's cash-on-cash return is then: ($205,000 - $135,000) / $135,000 = 51.9%.



In addition to deriving the current return, the cash-on-cash return can also be used to forecast the expected future cash distributions of an investment. However, unlike a monthly coupon payment distribution, it is not a promised return but is instead a target used to assess a potential investment. In this way, the cash-on-cash return is an estimate of what an investor may receive over the life of the investment.




What Does Cash-on-Cash Return Tell You?
Cash-on-cash return, sometimes referred to as the cash yield on a property investment, measures commercial real estate investment performance and is one of the most important real estate ROI calculations. Essentially, this metric provides business owners and investors with an easy-to-understand analysis of the business plan for a property and the potential cash distributions over the life of the investment.




Are Cash-on-Cash Return and ROI Identical?
Though they are often used interchangeably, cash-on-cash return and ROI (return on investment) are not the same when debt is used in a real estate transaction. Most commercial properties involve debt and the actual cash return on the investment differs from the standard return on investment (ROI). ROI calculates the total return, including the debt burden, on an investment. Cash-on-cash return, on the other hand, only measures the return on the actual cash invested, providing a more accurate analysis of the investment's performance.




How Is Cash-on-Cash Return Calculated?
Cash-on-cash returns are calculated using an investment property's pre-tax cash inflows received by the investor and the pre-tax outflows paid by the investor. Essentially, it divides the net cash flow by the total cash invested.For example, an investor purchases a property for $1 million putting $100,000 cash as a down payment and borrowing $900,000. The investor also pays $10,000 cash for ancillary costs out of pocket. The investor decides to sell the property for $1.1 million after having paid $25,000 in loan payments that include a principal repayment of $5,000.This means the investor's total cash outflow is $135,000 [$100,000+$10,000+$25000] and cash inflow is $205,000 [$1,100,000 - $895,000]. So, the investor's cash-on-cash return is 51.85% [($205,000 - $135,000) ÷ $135,000].
What Is Cash on Delivery (COD)?  

Cash on delivery (COD) is a type of transaction where the recipient pays for a good at the time of delivery rather than using credit. The terms and accepted forms of payment vary according to the payment provisions of the purchase agreement. Cash on delivery is also referred to as collect on delivery since delivery may allow for cash, check, or electronic payment.





Key Takeaways

Cash on delivery (COD) is when a recipient pays for a good or service at the time of delivery.A COD transaction can take several different forms and each can affect a company’s accounting.COD shipping offers customers an advantage in that they have time to save and make a full payment.Sellers receive faster payment for sales as long as the goods are accepted by the buyer.












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   Understanding Cash on Delivery (COD)  

A cash-on-delivery transaction can take different forms and may affect a company’s accounting in different ways. Public companies are required to use the accrual accounting method under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).



With accrual accounting, a company recognizes revenue at the time of the transaction and records the payment in accounts receivable if the payment is deferred. Private companies can use either accrual or cash accounting. In cash accounting, the company must wait to record the transaction as revenue until payment is received.



If a customer is dealing with a merchant in person, and the customer makes a purchase from readily available inventory, payment is collected at the time of sale as a form of cash on delivery. Under the accrual accounting method, this leads to a shorter accounts receivable period and higher efficiency.






If a company allows for COD shipping, it is willingly giving the customer more time to make a payment with somewhat less risk than a credit purchase.



For longer-term accounts receivable agreements, companies can set up COD shipping that allows the customer to defer payment until the time of delivery. On certain mail order platforms, such as eBay, COD can be used to help minimize the risk of fraud between buyers and sellers. Overall, COD does not require payment from a purchaser until they have received their purchase.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Cash on Delivery  
  Advantages  

For many businesses, in-person COD facilitates the immediate payment of goods and services. This is a significant accounting advantage because it can greatly shorten the days receivable for a business.



COD typically has shorter timeframes to delivery than standard invoicing. This is beneficial since the customer is required by an intermediary to pay at delivery. With COD shipping, customers have time to collect the money to make a full payment.



However, COD shipping increases the risk that a customer will not plan appropriately for payment, and the purchase will have to be returned. Returned purchases do not contribute to profits and may entail shipping return fees, both of which are disadvantageous to the merchant.



For merchants, offering a COD payment option may enhance consumer confidence in a new company that has not yet earned strong brand recognition. Generally, established companies are unwilling to assume the risks of COD shipping, opting for credit payment plans that charge interest and late payment fees.



However, in some cases, COD has an advantage over credit since the seller receives the full payment at delivery. COD can also help merchants avoid some risks of buyer identity fraud, stopped payments, or electronic card disputes. In some countries, such as India, cash-on-delivery transactions are boosting Internet commerce. COD transactions appeal to consumers who do not have established credit or alternative means for paying for goods.


  Disadvantages  

The cons of COD for businesses are that there is a greater risk that goods will be refused on delivery, and there are costs involved in returning items. For buyers, it may be more difficult to return items if they have already paid for them at delivery. A seller may be reluctant or under no obligation to accept returns, even if the consumer is unhappy with the goods.





Pros of Cash on Delivery

The payment period is shorter than with other payment methods.
The method provides some protection from customers who might fail to pay or pay late.
Cash on delivery improves cash flow and budgeting.
Consumers who do not have credit can buy products.



Cons of Cash on Delivery

Greater risk of delivery refusal.
Returning items can be costly for sellers who lack return infrastructure and support.
Buyers may find it difficult to return items that do not meet expectations.





   Cash on Delivery vs. Cash in Advance  

Cash in advance differs from cash on delivery as the buyer pays for the good or service before the product or service is delivered or shipped. Cash-in-advance payment methods, such as credit, are used to eliminate credit risk, or the risk of non-payment, for the seller. The seller benefits from cash in advance, and the buyer risks receiving delayed or damaged goods or goods that are not as expected. Cash on delivery, on the other hand, has benefits for both the buyer and the seller.



For cash-on-delivery terms, goods are shipped before payment is made. For cash-in-advance terms, the seller requires the buyer to make the entire payment upfront in order to initiate the shipping process. This protects the seller from lost money for goods shipped without payment.



Cash in advance is the most common form of payment for online marketplaces, e-commerce, and international business trade. Whether a business chooses to use cash on delivery or cash in advance depends on its ability to assume risk. Larger businesses may offer cash in advance for buyers because their accounts receivable and collections processes are more advanced.




What Is the Meaning of Cash on Delivery?
Cash on delivery is when a buyer pays for goods or services once they are received. Cash in advance, on the other hand, is when payment is made before the goods or services are shipped—for example, an e-commerce credit transaction.




How Does Cash on Delivery Work?
Buyers place an order, for example, on a website, and request delivery. The customer does not make payment while ordering the item and chooses cash on delivery as a payment method. Once the order is placed, an invoice is prepared by the seller, which is attached to the parcel.The parcel is shipped from the seller to the address provided by the customer. The customer pays the deliverer or shipper using cash or card. The COD amount is then deposited into the account of the logistics partner or shipper. The logistics company remits the amount to the seller’s account after deducting the handling charges.




What Are Examples of Cash on Delivery?
Examples of cash on delivery are when customers pay for a pizza that is delivered to their home, when a courier delivers something that a customer has agreed to pay for when it is delivered, or when a customer picks up clothing from the dry cleaning store. Some online stores will allow cash on delivery.


   The Bottom Line  

COD is a payment option that has benefits for both buyers and sellers. For buyers without credit, COD is a convenient way to buy the things that they need. For sellers, as long as the goods are accepted on delivery, payment is quicker. Ultimately, the payment options that a seller provides depend on how much risk the seller is willing to assume and their capacity to handle complications such as returns and late payments.
What Is a Cash-Out Refinance?  

A cash-out refinance is a mortgage refinancing option that lets you convert home equity into cash. A new mortgage is taken out for more than your previous mortgage balance, and the difference is paid to you in cash.



In the real estate world, refinancing in general is a popular process for replacing an existing mortgage with a new one that typically extends terms to the borrower that are more favorable. By refinancing a mortgage, you may be able to decrease your monthly mortgage payments, negotiate a lower interest rate, renegotiate the periodic loan terms, remove or add borrowers from the loan obligation, and, in the case of a cash-out refinance, access cash from the equity in your home.





Key Takeaways

In a cash-out refinance, a new mortgage is taken out for more than your previous mortgage balance, and the difference is paid to you in cash.You usually pay a higher interest rate or more points on a cash-out refinance mortgage compared to a rate-and-term refinance, in which a mortgage amount stays the same.A lender will determine how much cash you can receive with cash-out refinancing, based on standards such as your property’s loan-to-value (LTV) ratio and your credit profile.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   How a Cash-Out Refinance Works  

A cash-out refinance allows you to use your home as collateral for a new loan as well as some cash, creating a new mortgage for a larger amount than what is currently owed. Getting cash by using the equity in your home can be an easy way to get funds for emergencies, expenses, and wants.



Borrowers seeking a cash-out refinance find a lender willing to work with them. The lender assesses the current mortgage’s terms, the balance needed to pay off the loan, and the borrower’s credit profile. The lender makes an offer based on an underwriting analysis. The borrower gets a new loan that pays off their previous one and locks them into a new monthly installment plan. The amount above and beyond the mortgage payoff is issued in cash.



With a standard refinance, the borrower would never see any cash in hand, just a decrease to their monthly payments. The funds from a cash-out refinance can be used as the borrower sees fit, but many typically use the money to pay for big expenses such as medical or educational fees, to consolidate debt, or as an emergency fund.



A cash-out refinance results in less equity in your home, which means that the lender is taking on greater risk. As a result, closing costs, fees, or interest rates can be higher than a standard refinance. Borrowers with specialty mortgages like U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) loans, including cash-out loans, can often be refinanced through more favorable terms with lower fees and rates than non-VA loans.






Lenders impose borrowing limits on how much you can borrow through a cash-out refinance—typically 80% of the available equity of your home.


   Pros and Cons of a Cash-Out Refinance  

Savvy investors watching interest rates over time typically will jump at the chance to refinance when lending rates are falling toward new lows. There can be a variety of different types of options for refinancing, but in general, most will come with several added costs and fees that make the timing of a mortgage loan refinancing just as important as the decision to refinance.



In addition to checking rates and fees to make sure that refinancing is a good option, consider your reasons for needing the cash. This refinancing option typically comes with lower interest rates than unsecured debt, like credit cards or personal loans, does. However, unlike a credit card or personal loan, you risk losing your home—if you can’t pay your mortgage, for example, or if the value of your home goes down and you end up underwater on your mortgage.



Carefully consider if what you need the cash for is worth the risk of losing your home if you can’t keep up with payments in the future. If you need the cash to pay off consumer debt, take the steps you need to get your spending under control so you don’t get trapped in an endless cycle of debt reloading. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) has a number of excellent guides to help determine if a refinance is a good choice for you.



The cash-out refinance gives the borrower all of the benefits they are looking for from a standard refinancing, including a lower rate and potentially other beneficial modifications. Borrowers also get cash paid out to them that can be used to pay down other high-rate debt or possibly fund a large purchase. This can be particularly beneficial when rates are low, or in times of crisis—such as in 2020–21, in the wake of global lockdowns and quarantines, when lower payments and some extra cash may have been very helpful.






Home equity loans and home equity lines of credit (HELOCs) are alternatives to cash-out or no cash-out (or rate-and-term) mortgage refinancing.


   Example of a Cash-Out Refinance  

Say you took out a $200,000 mortgage to buy a property worth $300,000, and, after many years, you still owe $100,000. Assuming that the property value has not dropped below $300,000, you have also built up at least $200,000 in home equity. If rates have fallen and you are looking to refinance, you could potentially get approved for up to 80% of the equity in your home, depending on the underwriting.



Many people wouldn’t necessarily want to take on the future burden of another $200,000 loan, but having equity can help the amount you can receive as cash. Let’s say your lender is willing to lend out 75% of your home’s value. For a $300,000 home, this would be $225,000. You need $100,000 to pay off the remaining principal. This leaves you with $125,000 in cash.



If you decide to only get $50,000 in cash, you would refinance with a $150,000 mortgage loan that has a lower rate and new terms. The new mortgage would consist of the $100,000 remaining balance from the original loan plus the desired $50,000 that could be taken out in cash.



In other words, you can assume a new $150,000 mortgage, get $50,000 in cash, and begin a new monthly installment payment schedule for the full amount. That’s the advantage of collateralized loans. The disadvantage is that the new lien on your home applies to both the $100,000 and the $50,000, since it is all combined together in one loan.


   Rate-and-Term vs. Cash-Out Refinance  

As mentioned above, borrowers have a variety of options when it comes to refinancing. The most basic mortgage loan refinance is rate-and-term refinance, also called no cash-out refinancing. With this type, you are attempting to attain a lower interest rate or adjust the term of your loan, but nothing else changes on your mortgage.



For example, if your property was purchased years ago when rates were higher, then you might find it advantageous to refinance to take advantage of lower interest rates. In addition, variables may have changed in your life, allowing you to handle a 15-year mortgage (saving massively on interest payments), even though it means giving up the lower monthly payments of your 30-year mortgage. With a rate-and-term refinance, you could lower your rate, adjust to a 15-year payout, or both. Nothing else changes, just the rate and term.



Cash-out refinancing has a different goal. You receive the difference between the two loans in tax-free cash. This is possible because you only owe the lending institution what is left on the original mortgage amount. Any extraneous loan amount from the refinanced, cash-out mortgage is paid to you in cash at closing, which is generally 45 to 60 days from when you apply.



Compared to rate-and-term, cash-out loans usually come with higher interest rates and other costs, such as points. Cash-out loans are more complex than a rate-and-term and usually have higher underwriting standards. A high credit score and a lower relative loan-to-value (LTV) ratio can mitigate some concerns and help you get a more favorable deal.


   Cash-Out Refinance vs. Home Equity Loan  

With a cash-out refinance, you pay off your current mortgage and enter into a new one. With a home equity loan, you are taking out a second mortgage in addition to your original one, meaning that you now have two liens on your property. This translates to having two separate creditors, each with a possible claim on your home.



Closing costs on a home equity loan are generally less than those for a cash-out refinance. If you need a substantial sum for a specific purpose, home equity credit can be advantageous. However, if you can get a lower interest rate with a cash-out refinance—and if you plan to stay in your home for the long term—then the refinance probably makes more sense. In both cases, make sure that you are able to repay the new loan amount because otherwise, you could end up losing your home.






Mortgage lending discrimination is illegal. If you think that you’ve been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, there are steps that you can take. One such step is to file a report with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).




What is home equity?
Home equity is the market value of your home minus any liens, such as the amount you owe on a mortgage or a home equity loan. The equity in your home can fluctuate based on real estate market conditions in the community or region where you live.




How do I calculate home equity?
To calculate the equity in your home, simply subtract the mortgage balance owed from the market value of the property. For example, if your home is valued at $600,000 and you owe $200,000, then you have $400,000 in home equity.




How can I use the money from a cash-out refinance?
There are no restrictions on how you can use the funds from a cash-out refinance. Many borrowers use the cash to pay for a big expense, such as to fund an education or pay down debt, or as an emergency fund.
What Is the Cash Ratio?  

The cash ratio is a measurement of a company's liquidity. It specifically calculates the ratio of a company's total cash and cash equivalents to its current liabilities. The metric evaluates company's ability to repay its short-term debt with cash or near-cash resources, such as easily marketable securities. This information is useful to creditors when they decide how much money, if any, they would be willing to loan a company.





Key Takeaways

The cash ratio is a liquidity measure that shows a company's ability to cover its short-term obligations using only cash and cash equivalents.The cash ratio is derived by adding a company's total reserves of cash and near-cash securities and dividing that sum by its total current liabilities.The cash ratio is more conservative than other liquidity ratios because it only considers a company's most liquid resources.A calculation greater than 1 means a company has more cash on hand than current debts, while a calculation less than 1 means a company has more short-term debt than cash.Lenders, creditors, and investors use the cash ratio to evaluate the short-term risk of a company. 


   Cash Ratio Formula  

Compared to other liquidity ratios, the cash ratio is generally a more conservative look at a company's ability to cover its debts and obligations, because it sticks strictly to cash or cash-equivalent holdings—leaving other assets, including accounts receivable, out of the equation.



The formula for a company's cash ratio is:



Cash Ratio: Cash + Cash Equivalents / Current Liabilities


   What Cash Ratio Can Tell You  

The cash ratio is most commonly used as a measure of a company's liquidity. If the company is forced to pay all current liabilities immediately, this metric shows the company's ability to do so without having to sell or liquidate other assets.



A cash ratio is expressed as a numeral, greater or less than 1. Upon calculating the ratio, if the result is equal to 1, the company has exactly the same amount of current liabilities as it does cash and cash equivalents to pay off those debts.



The cash ratio is almost like an indicator of a firm’s value under the worst-case scenario—say, where the company is about to go out of business. It tells creditors and analysts the value of current assets that could quickly be turned into cash, and what percentage of the company’s current liabilities these cash and near-cash assets could cover.



Through the use of this and other liquidity ratios, the U.S. Small Business Administration advises companies on monitoring healthy levels of liquidity, capacity, and collateral, especially when building relationships with lenders. As companies pursue loans, lenders will analyze financial statements to evaluate the health of the company.


  Calculations Less Than 1  

If a company's cash ratio is less than 1, there are more current liabilities than cash and cash equivalents. It means insufficient cash on hand exists to pay off short-term debt. This may not be bad if the company has conditions that skew its balance sheets such as long credit terms with its suppliers, efficiently-managed inventory, and very little credit extended to its customers.


  Calculations Greater Than 1  

If a company's cash ratio is greater than 1, the company has more cash and cash equivalents than current liabilities. In this situation, the company has the ability to cover all short-term debt and still have cash remaining.



While a higher cash ratio is generally better, a higher cash ratio may also reflect that the company is inefficiently utilizing cash or not maximizing the potential benefit of low-cost loans. Instead of investing in profitable projects or company growth. A high cash ratio may also suggest that a company is worried about future profitability and is accumulating a protective capital cushion.


   Example of Cash Ratio  

At the end of 2021, Apple, Inc. held $37.1 billion of cash and $26.8 billion of marketable securities. In total, Apple had $63.9 billion of funds available for the immediate payment of short-term debt. Between accounts payable and other current liabilities, Apple was responsible for roughly $123.5 billion of short-term debt.



Short-Term Ratio = $63.9 million / $123.5 billion = Roughly 0.52



Apple's operating structure shows the company leverages debt, takes advantage of favorable credit terms, and prioritizes cash for company growth. Despite having billions of dollars on hand, the company has nearly twice as many short-term obligations.






The current ratio and the cash ratio are very similar. However, the current ratio includes more assets in the numerator; therefore, the cash ratio is a more stringent, conservative metric of a company's liquidity.


   Limitations of the Cash Ratio  

The cash ratio is seldom used in financial reporting or by analysts in the fundamental analysis of a company. It is not realistic for a company to maintain excessive levels of cash and near-cash assets to cover current liabilities. It is often seen as poor asset utilization for a company to hold large amounts of cash on its balance sheet, as this money could be returned to shareholders or used elsewhere to generate higher returns.



The cash ratio is more useful when it is compared with industry averages and competitor averages or when looking at changes in the same company over time. Certain industries tend to operate with higher current liabilities and lower cash reserves.



The cash ratio may be most useful when analyzed over time; a company's metric may currently be low but may have been directionally improving over the past year. The metric also fails to incorporate seasonality or the timing of large future cash inflows; this may overstate a company in a single good month or understate a company during their offseason.



A cash ratio lower than 1 does sometimes indicate that a company is at risk of having financial difficulty. However, a low cash ratio may also be an indicator of a company's specific strategy that calls for maintaining low cash reserves—because funds are being used for expansion, for example.




What Is a Good Cash Ratio?
The cash ratio will vary between industries as some sectors rely more heavily on short-term debt and financing (i.e. sectors that rely on quick inventory turnover). In general, a cash ratio equal to or greater than 1 indicates a company has enough cash and cash equivalents to entirely pay off all short-term debts. A ratio above 1 is generally favored, while a ratio under 0.5 is considered risky as the entity has twice as much short-term debt compared to cash.




What Does Cash Ratio Measure?
The cash ratio is one way to measure a company's liquidity. Liquidity is a measurement of a person or company's ability to pay their current liabilities. If a company has high liquidity, it is able to pay their short-term bills as they come due. If a company has low liquidity, it is going to have a more difficult time paying short-term bills.




How Do You Calculate Cash Ratio?
The cash ratio is calculated by dividing cash by current liabilities. The cash portion of the calculation also includes cash equivalents such as marketable securities.




Is It Better to Have a High or Low Cash Ratio?
It is often better to have a high cash ratio. This means a company has more cash on hand, lower short-term liabilities, or a combination of the two. It also means a company will have greater ability to pay off current debts as they come due.It is possible for a company's cash ratio to be considered too high. A company may be inefficient in managing cash and leveraging low credit terms. In these cases, it may be advantageous for a company to reduce their cash ratio.




How Can a Company's Cash Ratio Improve?
The cash ratio is calculated by dividing cash and cash equivalents by short-term liabilities. To improve its cash ratio, a company can strive to have more cash on hand in case of short-term liquidation or demand for payments. This includes turning over inventory quicker, holding less inventory, or not prepaying expenses.Alternatively, a company can reduce its short-term liabilities. The company can begin paying expenses with cash if credit terms are no longer favorable. The company can also evaluate spending and strive to reduce its overall expenses (thereby reducing payment obligations).
What Is Cash Surrender Value?  

Cash surrender value is money a life insurance policyholder receives for canceling their policy before it matures or they pass away. This cash value is the savings component of most permanent life insurance policies, such as whole life and universal life. It is also known as policyholder's equity. The insurance company could deduct a fee before paying out the cash value, known as a surrender charge.





Key Takeaways

The cash surrender value is the amount of money that a life insurance company pays out to a policyholder if they decide to cancel the plan.Cash value is the amount of equity in a life insurance policy.A policyholder builds cash value with premium payments and it grows over time.Life insurance companies could deduct fees for a policy surrender.A policyholder could withdraw or borrow their cash value as an alternative to surrendering.


   Understanding Cash Surrender Value  

Some permanent life insurance policies build cash value as you pay premiums. This is money you could take out while still alive. If you cancel your life insurance policy, known as a surrender, the insurance company will send you a check for your cash value.



In a whole life policy, your cash value growth is guaranteed. However, during the early years of a whole life insurance policy, the savings portion brings very little return compared to the premiums paid. As time goes by, you build more cash value which increases your cash surrender value.



When you surrender a policy, you receive whatever you paid in premiums back tax-free. If you receive more than you paid in total premiums, you owe income tax on your earnings.


   Cash Surrender Value vs. Cash Value  

In the early years of a policy, life insurance companies can deduct fees upon cash surrender. What you receive for your cash surrender value could be less than your current cash value balance after subtracting these fees.



The surrender charge can start as high as 10% to 35% of your policy cash value. If your policy has a surrender charge, it goes down over time. Most policies end the surrender charge after 10 to 15 years. At this point, your cash surrender value equals your cash value.






The cash surrender value of a life insurance policy is equal to the total accumulated cash value, minus prior withdrawals, outstanding loans, and surrender charges.


   How to Calculate Your Cash Surrender Value  

When determining your cash surrender value, you must consider any fees your company will charge for canceling your policy. Check your cash value balance then subtract any surrender charges to determine how much money you will receive in a cash surrender, .



For example, suppose you take out a variable universal life insurance policy for $100,000. You make five years of payments and build up a cash value of $10,000. However, the surrender change will cost you 10% of the cash value. You will have to pay $1,000 in charges, and you will only get $9,000 out of the cash surrender.






Don't overestimate your cash surrender value, which is not reflective of the amount of coverage you have taken out for the death benefit. A cash value is tied to the policy as a benefit to help offset the rise in premiums as you grow older and offers policyholders access to money they can borrow.


   Cash Surrender Value for Universal and Variable Life  

Universal life insurance, universal variable life, and variable life insurance policies typically include a surrender period. If you cancel during this period, you may owe a surrender charge of up to 35% of your cash value balance. The insurer will deduct this charge from your cash value balance and pay you the remainder for your surrender value. There is no surrender charge when the surrender period ends, usually after 10 to 15 years.


   Should You Surrender Your Policy?  

If you surrender your policy, you end your life insurance contract. You stop having to pay premiums and will receive all your cash surrender value. The downside though is you lose your life insurance protection. Your heirs will no longer receive a death benefit when you pass away.


  Take a Partial Withdrawal  

If you only need some of your cash value, you could take a partial withdrawal. This maintains your life insurance and whatever cash value is still in the policy will continue to grow. You can withdraw up to what you paid in premiums tax-free. If you withdraw your cash value gains, you would owe income tax on the gains. Partial value withdrawals will reduce your death benefit.



With universal and variable life insurance policies, cash values are not guaranteed. Sufficient cash value must remain inside the policy to support the death benefit.


  Borrow With Cash Value Loans  

You can also access your cash value with a loan. You do not owe income tax for borrowing cash value when you take out a loan, but the insurance company will charge interest until you pay the money back. You decide when to pay the money back. If you die with an unpaid loan, the insurance company will use your death benefit to pay off the loan, and then pay whatever is left to your heirs.


  Use the Cash Value to Cover Your Premiums  

If you want help covering your insurance premiums, you could pay them using your cash value. Your insurance company will deduct the cost of your insurance from your cash value balance. Once you spend down all your cash value, you need to start paying the premiums again or else you lose your coverage.




Which Kinds of Life Insurance Have Cash Surrender Values?
Whole, universal, variable universal, and indexed universal life insurance often have a cash value component to them. If you surrender the policy, you receive your cash value minus any surrender charges.




Should You Get a Policy With Cash Value?
It depends on your individual financial situation. If you have maxed out contributions to your retirement account, have a cash nest egg saved for emergencies, and you can afford the monthly premiums on a permanent life insurance policy with a cash value benefit, it may be a good choice. However, if you cannot afford a lifetime of high premiums and you are struggling to save for retirement, these accounts are not recommended as a tool for investment.




Can You Use the Cash Value and Still Keep the Policy?
In many cases, it is possible to use the cash value in your account to pay your premiums. By doing so, you keep the coverage in place for your beneficiaries. You can also take partial withdrawals and loans against your cash value, and keep the policy. If you use the policy cash value, your death benefit will be reduced.




Can You Sell Your Life Insurance Policy?
While not always advisable, you may be able to sell your life insurance policy to a third party for cash. This is called a life settlement.


   The Bottom Line  

Cash surrender value is what you receive back for canceling a life insurance policy with cash value before it matures or you pass away. Only permanent policies, like whole life and universal life, have surrender cash value. If you surrender the policy, you could owe fees and other charges. Therefore, the surrender value could be less than your current cash value. In addition, if you surrender your life insurance policy, it will impact your listed beneficiaries as you will no longer have insurance protection.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal. Investors should consider engaging a financial professional to determine a suitable retirement savings, tax, and investment strategy.
What Is Cash Value Life Insurance?  

Cash value life insurance is a form of permanent life insurance—lasting for the lifetime of the holder—that features a cash value savings component. The policyholder can use the cash value for many purposes, including borrowing or withdrawing cash from it, or using it to pay policy premiums.





Key Takeaways

Permanent life insurance policies such as whole life and universal life can accumulate cash value over time.Cash value life insurance is more expensive than term life insurance.Unlike term life insurance, cash value insurance policies don't expire after a specific number of years.You may borrow against a cash value life insurance policy. You may also withdraw cash from the policy, but this will reduce the death benefit.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   How Cash Value Life Insurance Works  

Cash value insurance is permanent life insurance because it provides coverage for the policyholder’s life. Usually, cash value life insurance has higher premiums than term life insurance because of the cash value element. A portion of each premium payment is allocated to the cost of insurance and the remainder deposited into a cash value account.



The cash value of life insurance earns interest, and taxes are deferred on the accumulated earnings. While premiums are paid and interest accrues, the cash value builds over time. As the life insurance cash value increases, the insurance company’s risk decreases, because the accumulated cash value offsets part of the insurer’s liability.


   Example of Cash Value Life Insurance  

Consider a policy with a $25,000 death benefit. The policy has no outstanding loans or prior cash withdrawals and an accumulated cash value of $5,000. Upon the death of the policyholder, the insurance company pays the full death benefit of $25,000. Money accumulated in the cash value becomes the property of the insurer.



Because the cash value is $5,000, the real liability cost to the life insurance company is $20,000 ($25,000 – $5,000).





Note

Whole life, variable life, and universal life insurance are all examples of cash value life insurance. Term insurance is not cash value insurance.


   Accessing the Cash Value of Life Insurance  

The cash value component serves as a living benefit for policyholders from which they may access funds. There are several ways to do that. 


  Withdrawals  

For most policies, partial surrenders or withdrawals are permissible, though these reduce the death benefit. Some policies allow for unlimited withdrawals, while others restrict how many draws can be taken during a term or calendar year. Some policies limit the amounts available for removal (e.g., a maximum of $500).






If you withdraw more than the amount you’ve paid into the cash value, that portion will be taxed as ordinary income. 


  Policy Loans  

Most cash value life insurance arrangements allow for policy loans from the cash value. As with any other loan, the issuer will charge interest on the outstanding principal. The outstanding loan amount will reduce the death benefit dollar for dollar in the event of the death of the policyholder before full repayment of the loan.


  Premium Payments  

Cash value may also be used to pay policy premiums. If there is a sufficient amount, a policyholder can stop paying premiums out of pocket and have the cash value account cover the payment.




Why Consider Cash Value Life Insurance?
Policyholders of permanent life insurance have the ability to borrow against the accumulated cash value, which comes from regular premium payments plus any interest and dividends credited to the policy.




Should I Look Into Buying a Cash Value Life Insurance Policy?
Those looking to build a nest egg over a time horizon of several decades may want to consider cash value life insurance as a savings option, alongside a retirement plan like an IRA or 401(k). Be aware that cash values often don't begin accruing until two to five years have passed. And you may have to wait several years to access the cash value, or pay a penalty.




Are Cash Value Policy Premiums High?
Yes, cash value policy premiums are typically higher than regular life insurance because part of your payment goes toward savings.




What Happens When You Withdraw Cash From Life Insurance?
If you make a withdrawal from the cash value in a life insurance policy, the death benefit will decrease. If you withdraw everything, the policy terminates. Withdrawing money from life insurance is tax-advantaged in that the IRS considers your withdrawals a return of the premiums you paid for the policy. So you can withdraw that amount of money without paying taxes. Any gains from dividends or interest, however, would be taxed—but these would not occur until after you've withdrawn all your premium payments.


   The Bottom Line  

Cash value life insurance provides a mechanism for policyholders to accumulate funds for future use. A portion of each premium is deposited into an interest-bearing savings account and the cash value grows tax-free over the lifetime of the deposit. This cash can be accessed for a variety of purposes during the insured’s lifetime.
What Was the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA)?  

The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) was a compilation of federal U.S. assistance programs that provided a full listing of programs available to corporate and government agencies, United States territories, and members of the American public.



Today, the CFDA's content is listed through the SAM.gov website.





Key Takeaways

The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) was a comprehensive list of federal assistance programs.It is now available through the Assistance Listings section of the new site: SAM.gov.CFDA detailed the federal grants, loans, scholarships, counseling, and other assistance programs available to the American public.CFDA recipients included corporate and government agencies, United States territories, and members of the American public.The CFDA's website was retired in 2018 after it was consolidated with other government systems programs to streamline the awards process.


   Understanding the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA)  

Entities seeking assistance to programs through the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) were required to have the authorization to conduct business with the federal government. Programs listed through the catalog were identified with a unique five-digit number. The CFDA's website was retired in 2018 after it was consolidated with other government systems programs to streamline the awards process.



Many of the U.S. federal government's agencies and departments offer grants, loans, scholarships, property, counseling, and other kinds of assistance within the U.S. Since 1984, information about these domestic assistance programs was compiled by the General Services Administration, which published it in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA). Many, but not all, programs provided financial assistance. Foreign aid was not included.



Entities that used the CFDA included:



Individuals
State and local governments (including the District of Columbia)
Federally recognized Native American tribal governments
Companies
Nonprofit organizations (NPOs)



Listings were available through the CFDA's official website CFDA.gov. Each program listed online was assigned a unique number by agency and program, enabling data and funding transparency. Each CFDA number contained five digits and appeared as ##.###. The first two digits indicated the agency responsible while the last three digits indicated the program itself.


   Transition to the SAM.gov Website  

The catalog was streamlined with nine other federal government systems in May 2018. This involved retiring the CFDA website and replacing it with the web portal SAM.gov.



The purpose was to make it easier to do business with the government for those authorized to do so. The CFDA and these other systems are now available through the Assistance Listings section of the new site: sam.gov. As in the past, assistance programs include loans, grants, insurance, and scholarships through this new system.



The federal government offered 2,293 domestic assistance programs as of the transition. The Department of Health and Human Services outpaced other agencies, offering 521 programs, or 22.7% of the total. Other agencies with a high volume of assistance programs included the Department of the Interior, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Justice, and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).



Neither the CDFA nor SAM.gov ever solicited awards or applications. Not surprisingly, phone, internet, and social media scams cropped up claiming to offer easy government grant money. Scammers claimed to be from the Community for Federal Domestic Assistance, although no such organization even exists. People who perpetrated these grant frauds promised potential victims of being approved and receiving grant money provided they sent the scammer a fee or their personal information.






Once you identify a federal assistance listing that you’re interested in, you can link directly to grant opportunities on grants.gov or follow up with that specific agency using the contact information provided on sam.gov.


   Available Assistance Programs  

There are many different programs available through the GSA's sam.gov. Some of the most common ones include:



The Department of Education's Federal Pell Grant Program (84.063), which subsidizes undergraduate education for students with financial need
The Department of Health and Human Services' Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (93.558) program (often referred to simply as welfare), which supplements the earnings of low-income families with children
The Department of Homeland Security's flood insurance (97.022) program, which is administered through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)



Smaller programs also exist to benefit small businesses. For instance, the Small Business Administration offers almost two dozen programs, including the Federal and State Technology Partnership Program (FAST 59.058), which is awarded "to strengthen the technological competitiveness of small business concerns in the U.S."




What Is the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance?
The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) is a Government-wide catalog of Federal programs, projects, services, and activities that provide assistance or benefits to a variety of recipients.




Is the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Legit?
Yes, the CFDA and programs offered through SAM.gov are sponsored by the federal government. However, beware of grant scams that may pose as the CFDA but are trying to defraud you. The government warns that agents claiming to be with the "Community for Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA)" or a similarly named organization, and not the federally-run Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA), may attempt to defraud you. They do represent themselves as agents of CFDA.




What Is the CFDA Called Now?
Since 2018, the CFDA is now housed at SAM.gov. This federally-run website stands for The System for Award Management.


   The Bottom Line  

The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) lists Federally available assistance programs that are offered for a variety of purposes and potential recipients, and which are offered across the scope of the Federal government. Since 2018, the contents of the CFDA are made available for free through the SAM.gov web portal.
What Does Caveat Emptor Mean?  

Caveat emptor is a Latin phrase that translates to "let the buyer beware." It means that an individual buys at their own risk. Potential buyers are warned by the phrase to do their research and ask pointed questions of the seller. The seller isn't responsible for problems that the buyer encounters with the product after the sale.



Caveat emptor is sometimes used in legal contracts as a type of disclaimer. In many jurisdictions, it is the contract law principle that places the onus on the buyer to perform due diligence before making a purchase.



The term is commonly used in real property transactions. It relates to adverse situations that may arise with real estate after the date of closing. It also applies to transactions that involve other types of goods, such as cars or items at thrift stores or yard sales.





Key Takeaways

Caveat emptor is a Latin phrase that means "let the buyer beware."The principle of caveat emptor is sometimes used in legal contracts as a type of disclaimer.A caveat emptor disclaimer precludes post-purchase disputes despite the seller having more information than the buyer about the quality of a good or service.Caveat emptor is more often accepted in real estate transactions, and in some states than others in the U.S.The U.S. has generally shifted from caveat emptor to caveat venditor, or, "let the seller beware."


   Understanding Caveat Emptor  

Caveat emptor is intended to preclude post-purchase disputes arising from information asymmetry, a situation in which the seller has more information than the buyer about the quality of a good or service.



For example, if Hasan wants to buy a car from Allison, and caveat emptor applies, he is responsible for gathering the necessary information to make an informed purchase.



In gathering this information, Hassan may decide to ask Allison how many miles the car has on it, whether any major components need to be replaced, whether it's been serviced regularly, and more.



If he buys the car for the asking price, making little or no effort to assess its true condition or value, and the car subsequently breaks down, Allison is not technically liable for damages. 



However, in practice, there are exceptions to this principle. Caveat emptor doesn't give sellers carte blanche to promote a fraudulent transaction. For example, if Allison lied about the car's mileage, maintenance history, or repair needs, she would have committed fraud. In theory, Hasan would be entitled to damages.



Caveat emptor can apply in real estate transactions involving previously owned houses in all U.S. states. Therefore, buyers need to make every effort to discover any and all property defects. They might hire a highly rated house inspector to help.



However, in the majority of states, this principle is not necessarily business as usual. What's more, within the U.S., home builders are required to issue an implied warranty of fitness to buyers of new properties. These properties come with the expectation that the seller is liable for faults.


   Reducing Caveat Emptor  

Market forces and other factors can reduce the feasibility of caveat emptor in some cases. For example, with real estate, because a seller typically knows the condition of a property better than a buyer, legal decisions relating to quality issues have begun to favor the buyers. There are other ways that buyers can feel more assured of quality.


  Warranties  

Warranties are guarantees of quality or satisfaction that sellers issue voluntarily to buyers. If sellers provide a quality product, they will not need to provide refunds or replacements very often. Buyers will be inclined to choose those vendors that provide a perception of quality or a warranty.



There are several types of implied warranties:



Merchantability warranties assure buyers that a product will operate as expected for normal purposes. These warranties are considered to apply to all sales unless a seller specifically disclaims it. Fitness for a particular purpose warranties apply to products that sellers claim function as described.Title warranties guarantee that sellers have the legal right to transfer (sell) their goods. Title warranties apply to every sale unless disclaimed by the seller.


  Disclosure Laws  

These laws have been enacted for the protection of consumers buying certain goods and services, especially since the 2008 financial crisis. For instance, financial services institutions know much more information about their products and services than their customers do. This information can relate to fees, responsibilities, risks, and benefits. The Truth in Lending Act (TILA) requires financial services providers to inform consumers of the terms and costs of consumer credit products.


  Other Government Oversight  

Informal transactions such as the one between Allison and Hasan are usually unregulated. However, the U.S. government pushes back against the principle of caveat emptor to protect consumers' interests in more than just the financial services industry, as referred to above. Many other industries must provide buyers clear, largely standardized information about a product or service.



At the same time, safe harbor statements and legally mandated quarterly reports can reinforce the principle of caveat emptor. Many companies continue to promote the expectation that buyers have access to all the information they need to make a reasonably informed decision.






If you see the term "as is" on the tag of any item for sale, caveat emptor applies. Be sure to examine the item carefully and to your satisfaction. Ask the seller questions about condition. Once you buy it, you cannot return it for a refund.


   States That Apply Caveat Emptor  

Most states don't uniformly apply caveat emptor, offering buyers some assurance of product/service protection. However, the courts in the states below still tend to uphold it for real estate transactions.



AlabamaArkansasGeorgiaNorth DakotaVirginiaWyoming


   Caveat Emptor vs. Caveat Venditor  

Caveat emptor refers to instances when buyers must be vigilant about researching the condition of an item for sale. The seller has no responsibility for after-sale problems that occur.



However, a different phrase often applies to sales in the U.S. nowadays. It's caveat venditor and it translates to "let the seller beware." Times have changed and goods and services are often covered by an implied warranty.



Unless they're labeled "sold as is" or some other understanding between the buyer and seller is reached, most consumer products are guaranteed to function when used for their intended purpose.




What Is Caveat Emptor?
Caveat emptor is a Latin phrase that means that buyers are responsible for making sure that a product works to their satisfaction before buying it. They must be confident about the product because the seller will be under no obligation to provide a refund for it.




Is Caveat Emptor Wrong?
Caveat emptor isn't necessarily wrong. It's just that it puts too heavy a burden on ordinary consumers to understand the intricacies of certain complex products and services. For example, most of those offered by financial institutions or tech companies can't be readily understood or even researched appropriately by the majority of individuals. Many people accept the principle of caveat emptor where items sold in thrift shops and garage sales are concerned. They understand that a seller in such circumstances might not know the true condition of a product that has been used or owned many times over by the time the seller obtained it.




What Replaced Caveat Emptor?
In general, caveat venditor has replaced caveat emptor. It means that sellers now need to be sure that their products and services function as advertised. Unless they're told otherwise, buyers expect that items have an implied warranty and can be returned for a refund.


   The Bottom Line  

Caveat emptor is a Latin phrase that translates to “let the buyer beware.” In use for hundreds of years in the U.S., it puts the burden of researching the quality of products and services on the buyer in a transaction. It's often used when selling previously owned real estate.



These days, caveat emptor isn't applied very often to other types of transactions. That's due to regulations that are intended to provide consumers with more information and protection. It's more likely that caveat venditor, or "let the seller beware," applies.
What Is a Central Counterparty Clearing House (CCP)?  

A central counterparty clearing house (CCP) is an entity that helps facilitate trading in various European derivatives and equities markets. Typically operated by the major banks in each country, CCPs strive to introduce efficiency and stability into various financial markets. It reduces counterparty, operational, settlement, market, legal, and default risk for traders.


   Understanding a Central Counterparty Clearing House (CCP)  

Central counterparty clearing houses (CCPs) perform two primary functions as the intermediary in a transaction: clearing and settlement. As counterparties to the buyers and the sellers, CCPs guarantee the terms of a trade—even if one party defaults on the agreement. CCPs bear the lion's share of the buyers' and sellers' credit risk when clearing and settling market transactions.



The CCP collects enough money from each buyer and seller to cover potential losses incurred by failing to follow through on an agreement. In such cases, the CCP replaces the trade at the current market price. Monetary requirements are based on each trader’s exposure and open obligations.





Key Takeaways

A central counterparty clearing house (CCP) is an organization, usually operated by a major bank, that exists in European countries to help facilitate derivatives and equities trading.Central counterparty clearing houses (CCPs) perform two primary functions as the intermediary in a transaction: clearing and settlement.A CCP acts as a counterparty to both sellers and buyers, collecting money from each, which allows it to guarantee the terms of a trade.


   Functions of a Central Counterparty Clearing House (CCP)  

As a means of privacy protection, CCPs shield the associated traders’ identities from one another. CCPs also protects trading firms against default from buyers and sellers who are matched by an electronic order book and whose creditworthiness is unknown. Furthermore, CCPs reduce the number of transactions that are being settled. This helps smooth operations while reducing the value of the obligations, which helps money move more efficiently among traders.






In the U.S., the equivalent of a CCP is known as a derivatives clearing organization (DCO) or a derivatives clearinghouse and is regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).


   Moody’s Rating Methods for Central Counterparty Clearing Houses  

In January 2016, Moody’s Investors Service made headlines by revealing its new methodology for rating CCPs worldwide. In its Clearing Counterparty Rating (CCR) report, Moody’s evaluates how a CCP may meet its clearing and settlement obligations in an efficient manner, and how much money will likely be lost if a trader defaults on an obligation. The CCR report factors in the following considerations:



A CCP’s management capabilities for obligation defaults and related protectionsA CCP's business and financial basicsA CCP's operating environmentA CCP's quantitative measurements and qualitative issues, which Moody’s uses when determining a given CCP’s creditworthiness


   Blockchain Technology and CCPs  

Blockchain technology, which is described as an incorruptible digital ledger of economic transactions that can be programmed to record financial transactions, arguably represents a new frontier for CCPs. In November 2015, clearinghouses from several nations joined forces to create a think tank known as the Post Trade Distributed Ledger Group, which studies how blockchain technology can affect the way in which security trades are cleared, settled, and recorded. The Group, which in 2018 began collaborating with the Global Blockchain Business Council, now includes around 40 financial institutions all around the world.



The PTDL Group believes new technology can reduce risk and margin requirements, save on operational costs, increase settlement cycle efficiency, and facilitate greater regulatory oversight—both before and after trading. And because this group’s members represent various parts of the securities settlement process, they comprehensively understand how the blockchain technology can aid the settlement, clearing, and reporting processes.
What Is the Central Limit Theorem (CLT)?  

In probability theory, the central limit theorem (CLT) states that the distribution of a sample variable approximates a normal distribution (i.e., a “bell curve”) as the sample size becomes larger, assuming that all samples are identical in size, and regardless of the population's actual distribution shape.



Put another way, CLT is a statistical premise that, given a sufficiently large sample size from a population with a finite level of variance, the mean of all sampled variables from the same population will be approximately equal to the mean of the whole population. Furthermore, these samples approximate a normal distribution, with their variances being approximately equal to the variance of the population as the sample size gets larger, according to the law of large numbers.



Although this concept was first developed by Abraham de Moivre in 1733, it was not formalized until 1920, when noted Hungarian mathematician George Pólya dubbed it the central limit theorem.





Key Takeaways

The central limit theorem (CLT) states that the distribution of sample means approximates a normal distribution as the sample size gets larger, regardless of the population's distribution.Sample sizes equal to or greater than 30 are often considered sufficient for the CLT to hold.A key aspect of CLT is that the average of the sample means and standard deviations will equal the population mean and standard deviation.A sufficiently large sample size can predict the characteristics of a population more accurately.CLT is useful in finance when analyzing a large collection of securities to estimate portfolio distributions and traits for returns, risk, and correlation.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding the Central Limit Theorem (CLT)  

According to the central limit theorem, the mean of a sample of data will be closer to the mean of the overall population in question, as the sample size increases, notwithstanding the actual distribution of the data. In other words, the data is accurate whether the distribution is normal or aberrant.



As a general rule, sample sizes of around 30-50 are deemed sufficient for the CLT to hold, meaning that the distribution of the sample means is fairly normally distributed. Therefore, the more samples one takes, the more the graphed results take the shape of a normal distribution. Note, however, that the central limit theorem will still be approximated in many cases for much smaller sample sizes, such as n=8 or n=5.



The central limit theorem is often used in conjunction with the law of large numbers, which states that the average of the sample means and standard deviations will come closer to equaling the population mean and standard deviation as the sample size grows, which is extremely useful in accurately predicting the characteristics of populations.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang


   Key Components of the Central Limit Theorem  

The central limit theorem is comprised of several key characteristics. These characteristics largely revolve around samples, sample sizes, and the population of data.



Sampling is successive. This means some sample units are common with sample units selected on previous occasions.
Sampling is random. All samples must be selected at random so that they have the same statistical possibility of being selected.
Samples should be independent. The selections or results from one sample should have no bearing on future samples or other sample results.
Samples should be limited. It's often cited that a sample should be no more than 10% of a population if sampling is done without replacement. In general, larger population sizes warrant the use of larger sample sizes.
Sample size is increasing. The central limit theorem is relevant as more samples are selected.


   The Central Limit Theorem in Finance  

The CLT is useful when examining the returns of an individual stock or broader indices, because the analysis is simple, due to the relative ease of generating the necessary financial data. Consequently, investors of all types rely on the CLT to analyze stock returns, construct portfolios, and manage risk.



Say, for example, an investor wishes to analyze the overall return for a stock index that comprises 1,000 equities. In this scenario, that investor may simply study a random sample of stocks to cultivate estimated returns of the total index. To be safe, at least 30-50 randomly selected stocks across various sectors should be sampled for the central limit theorem to hold. Furthermore, previously selected stocks must be swapped out with different names to help eliminate bias.




Why Is the Central Limit Theorem Useful?
The central limit theorem is useful when analyzing large data sets because it allows one to assume that the sampling distribution of the mean will be normally-distributed in most cases. This allows for easier statistical analysis and inference. For example, investors can use central limit theorem to aggregate individual security performance data and generate distribution of sample means that represent a larger population distribution for security returns over a period of time.




Why Is the Central Limit Theorem's Minimize Sample Size 30?
A sample size of 30 is fairly common across statistics. A sample size of 30 often increases the confidence interval of your population data set enough to warrant assertions against your findings. The higher your sample size, the more likely the sample will be representative of your population set.




What Is the Formula for Central Limit Theorem?
The central limit theorem doesn't have its own formula, but it relies on sample mean and standard deviation. As sample means are gathered from the population, standard deviation is used to distribute the data across a probability distribution curve.
What Is a Centrally Planned Economy?  

A centrally planned economy, also known as a command economy, is an economic system where a government body makes economic decisions regarding the production and distribution of goods. Centrally planned economies are different from market economies, where these decisions are the result of thousands of choices by producers and consumers.



The production of goods and services in planned economies is often done by state-owned enterprises, although independent companies may sometimes be incorporated into economic planning. Prices, wages, and production schedules are typically set by a centralized bureaucracy.





Key Takeaways


In a centrally planned economy, major economic decisions are made by a central authority such as the government.
Centrally planned economies are different from market economies where large numbers of individual consumers and profit-seeking private firms operate most or all of the economy.
Central planning allows the government to marshal society's resources for goals that might not be achieved by market forces alone.
Central planning is commonly associated with socialist or communist forms of government.
Other countries might resort to central planning in times of war or national emergency.



   Understanding Centrally Planned Economies  

Central planning is frequently associated with Marxist-Leninist governments such as the Soviet Union, North Korea, and East Germany. For most of their history, market activity was extremely limited in these countries, and the government directed economic activity through state-owned enterprises.



After the second world war, many socialist countries chose to adopt economic planning in order to focus resources on government priorities that may not be adequately served by market forces alone. Moreover, since these countries were ideologically opposed to private enterprise, central planning also helped eliminate capitalist modes of production.



While central planning is typically associated with socialist or communist political systems, many other countries may enact elements of economic planning in times of war or national emergency. For example, many countries implemented rationing systems during the world wars in order to prevent shortages and control the prices of essential goods.






There are few countries that can truly be described as a command economy today. Even in North Korea, the private sector performs more economic activity than the state.


   Theory of Central Planning  

Advocates of central planning believe that the government can direct economic investment more efficiently than private actors, especially towards social goals with lower potential for profits. Moreover, since the planning authority has more resources than any single company or business, government projects can also benefit from economies of scale that make government projects more productive in the long run.



However, in order to coordinate among different producers and resources, central planning typically requires a highly educated technical bureaucracy. This creates something of a paradox for socialist countries, since the bureaucrats may take the role of a de facto ruling class.


   Criticism of Centrally Planned Economies  

The concept of central planning is subject to heavy criticism, especially from scholars in the Austrian school of economics. One major critique, associated with Friedrich Hayek, is that central planners cannot efficiently respond to supply and demand. In a market economy, businesses respond to price signals by increasing or decreasing the production of their goods.



In a planned economy, there are no price signals, so planners cannot accurately forecast which products will be needed or adapt to changing conditions. This means that there may be unnecessary shortages or surpluses of certain goods.



Another critique is that command economies may be less efficient, due to the lack of competitive pressures. While private companies must avoid waste in order to remain profitable, enterprises in a command economy have no pressure to earn profits or reduce expenses.


   Examples of Centrally Planned Economies  

Central planning is typically associated with the formerly communist countries of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, as well as the contemporary governments of Cuba, China, and parts of Asia. In each of these examples, the state acted as the principal manufacturer, distributor, and employer in almost all sectors of the economy.



Almost all of these countries abandoned central planning in favor of a capitalist or mixed economic model starting in the 1980s. In some cases, such as in China, the privatization of state assets, combined with an influx of foreign investment, resulted in extremely rapid economic growth.




Which Countries Have a Centrally Planned Economy?
While central planning once dominated Eastern Europe and a large part of Asia, most planned economies have since given way to free market systems. China, Cuba, Vietnam, and Laos still maintain a strong degree of economic planning, but they have also opened their economies to private enterprise. Today, only North Korea can be accurately described as a command economy, although it also has a small degree of underground market activity.




How Are Economic Decisions Made in a Planned Economy?
In a planned economy, important economic decisions are made through a combination of political or administrative bodies. Typically, this involves local administrators communicating their capacity and needs to central authorities, who use that information to create a nationwide economic plan. This plan may go through several rounds of revision before it is submitted to the government or legislature.




Do All Socialist Countries Have a Planned Economy?
While socialist economies are typically associated with central planning, several socialist countries incorporated market price signals or private enterprise into their economic systems. Examples include market socialism in the former Yugoslavia, the Socialist Market Economy in Vietnam, or the economic reforms in China under Deng Xiaoping.
What Is the Certainty Equivalent?  

The certainty equivalent is a guaranteed return that someone would accept now, rather than taking a chance on a higher, but uncertain, return in the future. Put another way, the certainty equivalent is the guaranteed amount of cash that a person would consider as having the same amount of desirability as a risky asset.






The certainty equivalent represents the amount of guaranteed money an investor would accept now instead of taking a risk of getting more money at a future date.The certainty equivalent varies between investors based on their risk tolerance, and a retiree would have a higher certainty equivalent because they're less willing to risk their retirement funds.The certainty equivalent is closely related to the concept of risk premium or the amount of additional return an investor requires to choose a risky investment over a safer investment.


   What Does the Certainty Equivalent Tell You?  

Investments must pay a risk premium to compensate investors for the possibility that they may not get their money back and the higher the risk, the higher premium an investor expects over the average return.



If an investor has a choice between a U.S. government bond paying 3% interest and a corporate bond paying 8% interest and he chooses the government bond, the payoff differential is the certainty equivalent. The corporation would need to offer this particular investor a potential return of more than 8% on its bonds to convince him to buy.



A company seeking investors can use the certainty equivalent as a basis for determining how much more it needs to pay to convince investors to consider the riskier option. The certainty equivalent varies because each investor has a unique risk tolerance.



The term is also used in gambling, to represent the amount of payoff someone would require to be indifferent between it and a given gamble. This is called the gamble's certainty equivalent.


   Example of How to Use the Certainty Equivalent  

The idea of certainty equivalent can be applied to cash flow from an investment. The certainty equivalent cash flow is the risk-free cash flow that an investor or manager considers equal to a different expected cash flow which is higher, but also riskier. The formula for calculating the certainty equivalent cash flow is as follows:



﻿




Certainty Equivalent Cash Flow


=




Expected Cash Flow





(


1


 


+


 


Risk Premium


)






\text{Certainty Equivalent Cash Flow} = \frac{\text{Expected Cash Flow}}{\left(1\ +\ \text{Risk Premium} \right )}


Certainty Equivalent Cash Flow=(1 + Risk Premium)Expected Cash Flow​﻿



The risk premium is calculated as the risk-adjusted rate of return minus the risk-free rate. The expected cash flow is calculated by taking the probability-weighted dollar value of each expected cash flow and adding them up.



For example, imagine that an investor has the choice to accept a guaranteed $10 million cash inflow or an option with the following expectations:



A 30% chance of receiving $7.5 millionA 50% chance of receiving $15.5 millionA 20% chance of receiving $4 million



Based on these probabilities, the expected cash flow of this scenario is:



﻿









Expected Cash Flow









=


0


.


3


×


$


7


.


5


 Million

















+


0


.


5


×


$


1


5


.


5


 Million

















+


0


.


2


×


$


4


 Million








\begin{aligned} \text{Expected Cash Flow} &= 0.3\times\$7.5\text{ Million}\\&\quad + 0.5\times \$15.5\text{ Million}\\&\quad + 0.2\times\$4\text{ Million}\\ &=\$10.8 \text{ Million} \end{aligned}


Expected Cash Flow​=0.3×$7.5 Million+0.5×$15.5 Million+0.2×$4 Million​﻿



Assume the risk-adjusted rate of return used to discount this option is 12% and the risk-free rate is 3%. Thus, the risk premium is (12% - 3%), or 9%. Using the above equation, the certainty equivalent cash flow is:



﻿









Certainty Equivalent Cash Flow









=




$


1


0


.


8


 Million





(


1


+


0


.


0


9


)











\begin{aligned} \text{Certainty Equivalent Cash Flow} &= \frac{\$10.8 \text{ Million}}{\left(1 + 0.09 \right )} \\ &=\$9.908 \text{ Million} \end{aligned}


Certainty Equivalent Cash Flow​=(1+0.09)$10.8 Million​​﻿



Based on this, if the investor prefers to avoid risk, he should accept any guaranteed option worth more than $9.908 million.
What Is a Certificate of Deposit (CD)?  

A certificate of deposit (CD) is a savings product that earns interest on a lump sum for a fixed period of time. CDs differ from savings accounts because the money must remain untouched for the entirety of their term or risk penalty fees or lost interest. CDs usually have higher interest rates than savings accounts as an incentive for lost liquidity.





Key Takeaways

Top-paying certificates of deposit (CDs) pay higher interest rates than the best savings and money market accounts in exchange for leaving the funds on deposit for a fixed period of time.CDs are a safer and more conservative investment than stocks and bonds, offering lower opportunity for growth, but with a non-volatile, guaranteed rate of return.Virtually every bank, credit union, and brokerage firm offers a menu of CD options.The top nationally available CD rates are typically five to eight times higher than the industry average for every term, so shopping around delivers significant gains.Although you lock into a term of duration when you open a CD, there are options for exiting early should you encounter an emergency or change of plans.












Mira Norian / Investopedia


   Understanding Certificates of Deposit (CDs)  

Opening a CD is very similar to opening any standard bank deposit account. The difference is what you’re agreeing to when you sign on the dotted line (even if that signature is now digital). After you’ve shopped around and identified which CD(s) you’ll open, completing the process will lock you into four things.



The interest rate: Locked rates are a positive thing because they provide a clear and predictable return on your deposit over a specific time period. The bank cannot later change the rate and therefore reduce your earnings. On the flip side, a fixed return may hurt you if rates later rise substantially and you’ve lost your opportunity to take advantage of higher-paying CDs.
The term: This is the length of time that you agree to leave your funds deposited to avoid any penalty (e.g., 6-month CD, 1-year CD, 18-month CD, etc.) The term ends on the maturity date, when your CD has fully matured and you can withdraw your funds penalty free.
The principal: With the exception of some specialty CDs, this is the amount that you agree to deposit when you open the CD.
The institution: The bank or credit union where you open your CD will determine aspects of the agreement, such as early withdrawal penalties (EWPs) and whether your CD will be automatically reinvested if you don’t provide other instructions at the time of maturity.



Once your CD is established and funded, the bank or credit union will administer it like most other deposit accounts, with either monthly or quarterly statement periods, paper or electronic statements, and usually monthly or quarterly interest payments deposited to your CD balance, where the interest will compound. 


   Why Would I Open a CD?  

Unlike most other investments, CDs offer fixed, safe—and generally federally insured—interest rates that can often be higher than the rates paid by many bank accounts. And CD rates are generally higher if you’re willing to sock your money away for longer periods.



CDs have become a more attractive option for savers who want to earn more than most savings, checking, or money market accounts will pay, but without taking on the risk or volatility of the market.





Tip

Want more advice for saving money toward your financial goals? Order a copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine.


   CDs vs. a Savings or Money Market Account  

CDs are a special type of savings instrument. Like a savings or money market account, they provide a way to put money away for a specific savings goal—such as the down payment on a house, a new vehicle, or a big trip—or to park funds that you simply don’t need for day-to-day expenses, all while earning a certain return on your balance.



But whereas savings and money market accounts allow you to vary your balance by making additional deposits, as well as up to six withdrawals per month, CDs require one initial deposit that stays in the account until it reaches its maturity date, whether that’s six months or five years later. In return for giving up access to your funds, CDs generally pay higher interest rates than savings or money market accounts.


   How Are CD Rates Determined?  

Anyone who’s been following interest rates or business news in general knows that the Federal Reserve’s rate-setting actions loom large in terms of what savers can earn on their deposits. That’s because the Fed’s decisions can directly affect a bank’s costs. Here’s how it works.



Every six to eight weeks, the Fed’s Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) decides whether to raise, lower, or leave alone the federal funds rate. This rate represents the interest that banks pay to borrow and lend their excess reserves to each overnight through the Fed.



The federal funds rate in turn influences the prime rate, the interest rate that banks charge their most creditworthy customers. The prime rate is generally the fed funds rate +3 percentage points.



Rates for CDs, savings, and loans are then influenced by the prime rate. The higher the prime rate, the more interest you can earn on a CD.



In December 2008, the Fed reduced its rate to the lowest level possible of essentially zero as a stimulus to lift the U.S. economy out of the Great Recession. Even worse for savers was that it left rates anchored there for a full seven years. During that time, deposit rates of all kinds—savings, money market, and CDs—tanked.



Fast-forward to 2022, when amid record-setting inflation, the Fed began to raise interest rates aggressively. Between March 2021 and March 2023, average CD rates tripled or quadrupled.





Movements in Fed’s Rates

When considering opening a CD or how long a term to choose, pay attention to the Fed’s rate-setting movements and plans. Opening a long-term CD right before a Fed rate hike can hurt your future earnings, while expectations of decreasing rates can signal a good time to lock in a long-term rate.



Beyond the Fed’s action, however, the situation of each financial institution is an additional determinant of how much interest it is willing to pay on specific CDs. For instance, if a bank’s lending business is booming and an increasing amount in deposits is needed to fund those loans, then the bank may be more aggressive in trying to attract deposit customers. By contrast, an exceptionally large bank with more than sufficient deposit reserves may be less interested in growing its CD portfolio and therefore offer paltry certificate rates.


   Are CDs Safe?  

CDs are one of the safest savings or investment instruments available for two reasons:



First, their rate is fixed and guaranteed, so there is no risk that your CD’s return will be reduced or even fluctuate. What you signed up for is what you’ll get—it’s in your deposit agreement with the bank or credit union.
Second, CD investments are protected by the same federal insurance that covers all deposit products. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) provides insurance for banks, and the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) provides insurance for credit unions. When you open a CD with an FDIC- or NCUA-insured institution, up to $250,000 of your funds on deposit with that institution are protected by the U.S. government if that institution were to fail. Bank failures are rare, but it’s good to know that a bank failure wouldn’t put your funds in jeopardy.



The key to ensuring your funds are as safe as possible is to make sure that you choose an institution that carries FDIC or NCUA insurance (the vast majority do, but a small minority carry private insurance instead), and to avoid exceeding $250,000 in deposits in your name at any one institution. If you are holding more than that amount in deposits, you can maximize your coverage by spreading your funds across multiple institutions and/or more than one name (e.g., your spouse).


   When Is Opening a CD a Good Idea?  

CDs are useful in a few different situations. Perhaps you have cash that you don’t need now but will want within the next few years—maybe for a special vacation or to buy a new home, car, or boat. For near-term uses like that, the stock market generally isn’t considered a suitable investment, as you could lose money over that period of time. 



Or maybe you simply want some portion of your savings invested very conservatively, or you shun the risk and volatility of the stock and bond markets altogether. Though CDs don’t offer the growth potential of equity or debt investments, they also don’t carry a risk of downturns. For money that you want to absolutely ensure will grow in value, even if modestly, CDs can fit the bill.



One of the downsides of CDs can also be a useful feature for some savers. For those who worry that they won’t have the discipline to avoid tapping into their savings, the fixed term of a CD—and the associated penalty for early withdrawal—provide a deterrent to spending that regular savings and money market accounts do not.



One version of this is using CDs for your emergency fund. This allows you to ensure that you always have sufficient reserves on hand in case of an emergency because the amount in the CD will never decrease.



And though you may incur a penalty if you have to dip into your funds early, the idea is that you would only do this in a true emergency, not for lesser but tempting reasons. All the while, you’ll be earning a better return while the funds are invested than if you had deposited them in a savings or money market account.





Pros

Higher rates usually than savings or money market accounts
Guaranteed, predictable rate of return is less risky than volatile stocks and bonds
Federally insured if opened with an FDIC bank or NCUA credit union
Can help you avoid spending temptations since withdrawing funds early triggers a penalty



Cons

Penalties for withdrawing funds early
Typically earns less than stocks and bonds over time
Fixed rate could cost you if interest rates rise during the term
Inflation can eat away at the value of money locked in at a fixed rate





   Where Can I Get a CD?  

Virtually every bank and credit union offers at least one CD, and most have a wide array of terms on offer. Thus, not only is your local brick-and-mortar bank an outlet, but so is every bank or credit union in your community, as well as every bank that accepts customers nationwide via the internet. 



In addition, you can open CDs through your brokerage account. These are bank certificates as well. Your brokerage firm simply serves as a middleman.


   Why It’s Important to Shop Around  

With the growth of online banking, it’s now possible to shop for CDs at more than 150 banks that accept customers nationwide and allow for opening an account online. In addition to that, you’ll have access to a number of regional and state banks that will do business with you based on your residency in their state. And many credit unions are available nationwide to anyone who is willing to join an affiliated nonprofit organization for a small fee.



Note that the range of CD rates across different institutions can vary widely. It’s a mistake to just open a CD at the bank where you already have a checking relationship without investigating how its rates compare with those that you can earn elsewhere. You should shop for options available anywhere, with several online tools able to filter these results and aid in your search.





Always Compare CDs

The top-paying CDs in the country typically pay five to eight times the national average rate, so doing your homework on the best options is a key determinant on how much you can earn.


   How Much Do I Need to Open a CD?  

Each bank and credit union establishes a minimum deposit required to open each CD on its menu. Sometimes a bank will set a minimum deposit policy across all CD terms it offers, while some will instead offer rate tiers, providing a higher annual percentage yield (APY) to those who meet higher minimum deposits.



In theory, having more funds available to deposit will earn you a higher return. But in practice, this doesn’t always hold true. For instance, having $25,000 ready for deposit will occasionally enable you to open a CD that is not available to others with lesser amounts. But many of the top 10 rates in each CD term can be achieved with modest investments of just $500 or $1,000. And the vast majority of top rates are available to anyone with at least $10,000. A $25,000 deposit is only occasionally required for a top rate.






The top jumbo CDs (those requiring a minimum deposit of at least $50,000) consistently pay poorer rates than the best CDs that are not marketed as "jumbo" but will take deposits of any size. 


   Which CD Term Should I Choose?  

There are two important considerations when deciding what length of CD term is right for you.



The first centers on your plans for the money. If it’s for a specific goal or project, the expected start of that project will help you determine your maximum CD term length. In contrast, if you’re just socking away cash for which you don’t have a specific purpose in mind, you may opt for a longer term to maximize your interest rate.



Second, you’ll want to consider what’s expected to happen with the Fed’s rate. If it’s anticipated that the Fed will raise rates—and bank and credit union CD rates will likely rise as well—then short- and mid-term CDs will make more sense than long-term CDs, since you won’t want to be committed to a lesser rate for five years when new, higher rates appear. Conversely, an expectation that rates will decrease in the near term may trigger you to want long-term CDs, so you can lock in today’s higher rates for years to come.



One other way to invest in CDs when interest rates are rising is to buy a variable rate CD or a bump-up CD. A variable rate CD has an APY that changes based on an index rate—it can go up or down, so you only want to buy a variable-rate CD when rates are expected to go up and stay up. A bump-up CD allows you to increase the rate at one time of your choosing, and the rate can not go down.






Variable-rate CDs and bump-up CDs typically have lower starting rates than traditional CDs, so you'll need to weigh that when considering these products.


   What Is a CD Ladder, and Why Should I Build One?  

Smart CD investors have a specific tactic for hedging against rate changes over time and maximizing their returns. It’s called a CD ladder, and it enables you to access the higher rates offered by 5-year CD terms, but with the twist that a portion of your money becomes available every year rather than every five years. Here’s how to do it.



At the outset, you take the amount of money that you want to invest in CDs and divide it by five. You then put one-fifth of the funds into a top-earning 1-year CD, another fifth into a top 2-year CD, another into a 3-year CD, and so forth through a 5-year CD. Let’s say you have $25,000 available. That would give you five CDs of varying length, each with a value of $5,000. 



Then, when the first CD matures in a year, you take the resulting funds and open a top-rate 5-year CD. A year later, your initial 2-year CD will mature, and you’ll invest those funds into another 5-year CD. You continue doing this every year with whichever CD is maturing until you end up with a portfolio of five CDs all earning 5-year APYs, but with one of them maturing every 12 months, keeping your money a bit more accessible than if all of it were locked up for a full five years.





Note

Some CD investors also do a shorter version of the CD ladder, utilizing 6-month CDs at the bottom end of the ladder and 2- or 3-year CDs at the top. You thus would have funds becoming accessible twice a year instead of just once annually, but you would earn top rates available for 2- to 3-year CDs instead of 5-year rates.


   Why You Should Be Open to Odd-Term CDs  

Whether you’re building a CD ladder or are saving toward a specific goal with a known time line, stay open-minded to the very best CD deals you find rather than getting hung up on a specific term. This is important because when some banks and credit unions offer a promotional CD to attract new customers, they may stipulate an unconventional term.



For instance, some of the best CD rates you’ll see have unlikely terms such as 5 months, 17 months, or 21 months. It may be to stand out, or perhaps to match an anniversary that the bank is celebrating, or for any number of other reasons. But if you can be flexible in considering these odd-term CDs instead of the conventional term that you were planning, you can sometimes find yourself with a better-paying opportunity.


   How Are CD Earnings Taxed?  

When you hold a CD, the bank will apply interest to your account at regular intervals. This is usually done either monthly or quarterly and will show up on your statements as earned interest. Just like interest paid on a savings or money market account, it will accumulate and be reported to you in the new year as interest earned, so that you can report it as income when you file your tax return.



Sometimes people get confused about this because they are not able to actually withdraw and use those interest earnings. Their expectation is that they will be taxed on the earnings when they withdraw the CD funds at maturity (or sooner if they cash out early). This is incorrect. For tax-reporting purposes, your CD earnings are taxed when the bank applies them to your account, regardless of when you withdraw your CD funds.


   What Happens to My CD at Maturity?  

In the month or two leading up to your CD’s maturity date, the bank or credit union will notify you of the impending end date. Its communication will also include instructions on how to tell them what to do with the maturing funds. Typically, they will offer you three options.



Roll over the CD into a new CD at that bank. Generally, it would be into a CD that most closely matches the term of your maturing CD. For example, if you have a 15-month certificate concluding, they would likely roll your balance into a new 1-year CD.
Transfer the funds into another account at that bank. Options include savings, checking, or money market account.
Withdraw the proceeds. They can be transferred to an external bank account or mailed to you as a paper check.



In any case, the communication to you will stipulate a deadline for you to provide instructions, with an indication of what the institution will do in lieu of receiving your guidance. In many cases, its default move will be to roll your proceeds into a new CD.






Missing the bank’s deadline for instructing it on how to handle the proceeds of your maturing CD can lead to involuntarily locking yourself into a subpar rate for years to come, or incurring an unwanted—and potentially hefty—early withdrawal penalty because you waited too long before extracting your funds.


   Should I Let My CD Roll Over?  

As a general rule, letting your CD roll over into a similar CD term at the same institution is almost always unwise. If you still don’t need the cash and are interested in starting a new CD, rolling it over is certainly the path of least resistance. But it’s also virtually never the path of maximum return.



As we’ve mentioned, shopping around is imperative if you want to earn the top rate on your CD investments. And the odds are low that the bank where your CD is maturing is currently a top-rate provider among the hundreds of banks and credit unions from which you can choose a CD. It’s possible that you’ll do well with a rolled-over CD, but the probabilities are against you, and shopping around is always your better bet.



Even if you find that your existing bank is indeed a top contender, you’ll be able to move into that CD purposefully and with confidence that you’ve done your homework to score the best possible return.


   What If I Need to Withdraw My Money Early?  

Even though opening a CD involves agreeing to keep the funds on deposit without withdrawals for the duration of the term, that doesn’t mean you lack options if your plans need to change. Whether you encounter an emergency or a change in your financial situation—or you simply feel that you can use the money more usefully or lucratively elsewhere—all banks and credit unions have stipulated terms for how to cash your CD out early.



The exit won’t be free, of course. The most common way that financial institutions accommodate a premature termination is by assessing an early withdrawal penalty (EWP) on the proceeds before your funds are distributed, according to specific terms and calculations that were set out in your deposit agreement when you first opened the certificate. This means that you can know before you agree to the CD if the EWP is acceptable to you.



Most typically, the EWP is charged as a number of months’ interest, with a greater number of months for longer CD terms and fewer months for shorter CDs. For instance, a bank’s policy might be to deduct three months’ interest for all CDs with terms up to 12 months, six months’ interest for those with terms up to three years, and a full year’s worth of interest for its long-term CDs. These are just examples, of course—every bank and credit union sets its own EWP, so it’s important to compare EWP policies whenever you are deciding between two similar CDs.



It’s especially wise to watch out for EWPs that can eat into your principal. The typical EWP policy described above will only cause you to earn less than you would have if you had kept the CD to maturity. You will generally still have earnings, as the EWP will usually only eat up a portion of your earned interest.



But some particularly onerous penalties exist in the marketplace, where a flat-percentage penalty is applied. Since this percentage can outweigh what you’ve earned on a CD that you haven’t kept very long, you could find yourself collecting less in proceeds than you invested. As a result, these EWP types are best avoided.





Early Withdrawal Policies

Always check a bank’s EWP policy before committing to a CD. If it’s especially aggressive—or if you can find another CD with a similar rate and a milder term—then you’ll be wise to stay away from the toughest penalties.




How do you find the best CD rates?
Shopping for the best CD rate takes a lot of research but Investopedia has done the hard work for you and maintains lists of the best rates available no matter what length of time you're looking for:Best CD RatesBest 3-Month CD RatesBest 6-Month CD RatesBest 1-Year CD RatesBest 2-Year CD RatesBest 3- Year CD RatesBest 4-Year CD RatesBest 5-Year CD RatesBest 10-Year CD RatesBest Jumbo CD RatesBest Bank CD Rates




How does a certificate of deposit (CD) work?
A certificate of deposit (CD) is a simple and popular savings vehicle offered by banks and credit unions. When a depositor purchases a CD, they agree to leave a certain amount of money on deposit at the bank for a certain period of time, such as one year. In exchange, the bank agrees to pay them a predetermined interest rate and guarantees the repayment of their principal at the end of the term. For instance, investing $1,000 in a 1-year, 5% certificate would mean receiving $50 in interest over the course of one year, plus the $1,000 you initially invested.




Can you lose money on a CD?
Practically speaking, it is almost impossible to lose money on a CD for two reasons. First, they are guaranteed by the bank or credit union that offers them, meaning that they are legally required to pay you exactly the amount of interest and principal agreed upon. Second, they are generally also insured by the federal government for up to $250,000. That means that even if the bank or credit union went bankrupt, your principal would very likely still be repaid. For these reasons, CDs are considered one of the safest investments available.




What are the advantages and disadvantages of a CD?
Some savers like CDs because of the safety they provide, as well as the fact that they are perfectly predictable. On the other hand, CDs generally promise a very modest rate of return, compared to riskier investments like stocks and bonds. If the interest rate offered is below the current inflation rate, then investors in CDs will actually lose money on their investment when it’s measured on an inflation-adjusted basis. For this reason, yield-conscious investors might prefer investments that are riskier but offer higher potential returns.


   The Bottom Line  

Certificates of deposit offer stability for people that want to earn more on their money without the risk inherent in stocks and bonds. Although interest rates may be higher than savings accounts and money markets, you'll want to read the fine print carefully. Tying up your money for long set terms may be safe, but you may lose out on higher interest returns if the federal funds rate increases. While you may be able to withdraw your money early, there will be penalties, some of which can cut into your principal. Know the limitations and benefits of your future investment before you sign on the dotted line.
What Is a Certificate of Insurance (COI)?  

A certificate of insurance (COI) is a document issued by an insurance company or broker. The COI verifies the existence of an insurance policy and summarizes the key aspects and conditions of the policy. For example, a standard COI lists the policyholder’s name, the policy’s effective date, the type of coverage, policy limits, and other important details of the policy.



Without a COI, a company or contractor will have difficulty securing clients because they will likely not want to assume the risk of any costs that might be caused by the contractor or provider.





Key Takeaways

A certificate of insurance (COI) is issued by an insurance company or broker and verifies the existence of an insurance policy.Small business owners and contractors typically require a COI that grants protection against liability for workplace accidents or injuries to conduct business.If you receive a COI from a business, check the policy coverage dates and the limits of the policy.


   How Certificates of Insurance (COI) Work  

Certificates of insurance (COIs) are used in situations where liability and significant losses are of concern and require a COI, which is in most business contexts. A certificate of insurance is used for proving insurance coverage.



Small business owners and contractors often have a COI that proves they have insurance that protects against liability for workplace accidents or injuries. When you purchase of liability insurance, the insurance company will usually provide an insurance certificate.



Without a COI, a business owner or contractor may have difficulty winning contracts. Because many companies and individuals hire contractors, the client wants to know that a business owner or contractor has liability insurance so that they will not assume any risk if the contractor is responsible for damage, injury, or substandard work.






A company that hires a contractor or another entity for services should obtain a copy of their COI and ensure that it is up to date.


  Validating a Certificate of Insurance  

Typically, a client will request a certificate directly from the insurance company rather than the business owner or contractor. The client should confirm that the name of the insured on the certificate is an exact match of the company or contractor they are considering.



Also, the client should check the policy coverage dates to ensure that the effective date of the policy is current. The client should secure a new certificate if the policy is set to expire before the contracted work is complete.


   Details of a Certificate of Insurance  

Certificates of insurance contain separate sections for different types of liability coverage listed as general, auto, umbrella, and workers’ compensation. The term “insured” refers to the policyholder, person, or company appearing on the certificate as being covered by the insurance.



In addition to coverage levels, the certificate includes the policyholder’s name, mailing address, and describes the operations that the insured performs. The address of the issuing insurance company is listed, along with contact information for the insurance agent or the insurance agency’s contact person. If several insurance companies are involved, all names and contact information are listed.



When a client requests a COI, they become a certificate holder. The client’s name and contact information appear in the bottom left-hand corner along with statements showing the insurer’s obligation to notify the client of policy cancellations.



The certificate briefly describes the insured’s policies and limits provided for each type of coverage. For example, the general liability section summarizes the six limits that the policy offers by category and indicates whether coverage applies per claim or per occurrence. Because state laws determine the benefits provided to injured workers, the workers’ compensation coverage will show no limit. However, an employer’s liability coverage limits should be listed.


   How to Get a Certificate of Insurance  

If you are requesting a COI from a contractor or business, they should either be able to retrieve it from their insurance company or provide you with their insurance company’s contact information, so you can ask for that proof to be sent to you directly. Be careful, however, if you ask your vendor to provide you with a COI. There have been documented cases of contractors submitting fraudulent COIs.




Who Needs a Certificate of Insurance (COI)?
Simply put, if you are hiring an independent contractor or business for their services on your property, you should require a certificate of insurance (COI). If you are a contractor or business, you should have a COI so you can prove to your clients that you are insured.




How Long is a Certificate of Insurance Good For?
It would be safest to hold on to any COI you get indefinitely since you do not know when a problem may arise for a job either carried out on your premises or that you completed for someone else. Keeping proof of the COI will help address any issues at that point.




When Should I Get a Certificate of Insurance?
You should ask for and receive a COI before anyone works on your home or property. If you have a written contract, it should contain insurance requirements, including coverage and limits required that are verified with a COI.


   The Bottom Line  

You may need a Certificate of Insurance (COI) in a number of situations. Generally, a client will request a COI directly from your insurance company to confirm you have appropriate insurance coverage. If you are hiring a contractor, consider getting a COI from their insurance company, even if you have worked with them before because their coverage may have changed.
What Is a Certificate of Origin (CO)?  

A certificate of origin (CO) is a document declaring in which country a commodity or good was manufactured. The certificate of origin contains information regarding the product, its destination, and the country of export. For example, a good may be marked "Made in the USA" or "Made in China".



Required by many treaty agreements for cross-border trade, the CO is an important form because it can help determine whether certain goods are eligible for import, or whether goods are subject to duties.





Key Takeaways

A certificate of origin (CO) records the country of origin that an imported good has come from.The CO is often mandated by importing countries and included in trade agreements, as it is used to levy the appropriate import tax, if any apply.A CO can exist either in paper or digital format, and must be approved by the requisite chamber of commerce or customs authority.Preferred COs are abbreviated versions that are only used in the presence of a free trade agreement or treaty.


   Understanding Certificates of Origin (COs)  

Customs officials expect the CO to be a separate document from the commercial invoice or packing list. Customs in these countries also expect it to be signed by the exporter, the signature notarized, and the document subsequently signed and stamped by a chamber of commerce. In some cases, the destination customs authority may request proof of review from a specific chamber of commerce. Chambers of commerce usually only certify that which is verifiable. However, if the chamber is presented with a declaration attesting to commercial details, the accuracy of which it cannot check, it must confine itself to stamping the document attesting to the position and the identity of the signatory.



The proof of review usually amounts to the chamber’s official embossing stamp and a signature of an authorized chamber representative. Some countries are accepting electronically issued certificates of origin that have been electronically signed by a chamber of commerce.



A certificate of origin may also be required by the buyer in the documentary requirements stated within a letter of credit. The letter of credit may specify additional certifications or language within that must be noted in order for the certificate of origin to comply with the stated requirements



With an electronic certificate of origin (eCO), you can submit the required documentation online and get an electronic certificate stamped by a chamber of commerce in less than a day or get an expedited paper certificate overnight.


   Types of Certificates of Origin  

There is no standardized certificate of origin (CO) form for global trade, but a CO, normally prepared by the exporter of goods, has at least the basic details about the product being shipped, a tariff code, the exporter and importer, and the country of origin. The exporter, with knowledge of the specific requirements of border control at the importing country, will document these details, get the CO notarized by a chamber of commerce, and submit the form with the shipment. Detail requirements depend on the type of goods being exported and where they are going.



The main two types of COs are non-preferential and preferential.


  Non-Preferential COs  

Non-preferential COs, also known as "ordinary COs," indicates that the goods do not qualify for reduced tariffs or tariff-free treatment under trade arrangements between countries.



If an exporting country does not have in place a treaty or trade agreement with the importing country, an ordinary CO will be needed. Or, if a particular product being shipped has been excluded from tariff relief it must also be declared using an ordinary CO.


  Preferential COs  

Preferential COs indicate the presence of a free trade agreement or reduced tariffs between countries. For example, exports between the United States, Mexico, and Canada are exempt under the USMCA free trade agreement and would receive a preferential CO. In these and similar cases, instead, a commercial invoice or bill of lading is used.



In the U.S., the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) enacted by Congress in 1974 to promote economic development of poor nations, eliminates duties on thousands of products imported from over one hundred countries accorded preferential status.



Countries like Bolivia, Cambodia, Haiti, Namibia, and Pakistan are presently on the list, as are numerous other third-world or developing countries. The European Union (EU) and countries around the world have their own versions of a GSP, mainly geared to fostering economic growth through trade with friendly nations.


   Free Trade Agreement Certificates of Origin  

Free trade agreements made by the U.S. with other countries may necessitate a specific form be issued by the exporter as proof of origin so products can qualify for preferential duty rates. Samples of those forms can be found at the U.S. Customs and Border Protection website, export.gov, or the customs or chamber of commerce websites of the destination country.



In addition, the shipping solutions website allows you to download sample certificates of origin for Australia, CAFTA-DR, Chile, Colombia, Korea, and the USMCA (which replaced NAFTA).


   Steps for Obtaining a Paper Certificate of Origin  

Exporter in need of issuing a CO should follow the following steps, per their local chamber of commerce:



Complete and notarize an appropriate affidavit.Provide either a manufacturer's invoice or commercial invoice that shows where your goods are manufactured.Fill out the certificate of origin document.Submit a notarized affidavit, certificate of origin document, and corresponding invoices to your chamber of commerce.Indicate which documents you would like to be stamped.



There is usually a fee for stamping certificates of origin—however, if you’re a member, that fee may be reduced. This is an incentive for becoming a member.


   What's Included on a Certificate of Origin?  

Certificates of origin will typically contain the following information;



The name and contact information of the producer of the product, including the country of origin
The name and contact information of the exporting agent
The name and contact information of the receiver/importing agent
A description of the good(s), including the appropriate product codes (known as HS codes)
The item's quantity, size, and weight
A waybill or bill of lading number
The item's means of transportation and route information
A dated commercial invoice of payment
Any additional notes or remarks




How Do You Get a Certificate of Origin?
Certificates of origin (COs) are issued and filled out by the exporter of a good. The CO may then be approved by a chamber of commerce prior to shipment.




Can I Produce My Own Certificate of Origin?
Only exporters can issue a certificate of origin. Contact your local chamber of commerce (or similar authority) to get help with the process and understand what is needed for their approval.




Is a Certificate of Origin the Same As Title?
A certificate of origin (CO) states from what country a product originated along with its export and import information. However, it does not provide title in the sense of a legal transfer of ownership of the good. That would be done via a separate transaction involving an invoice or similar proof of sale.In the context of new car sales, a manufacturer's CO may serve as equivalent to initial title to a vehicle when it is received by a dealership from overseas.


   The Bottom Line  

A certificate of origin (CO) is a document used in international trade to identify a product's country of origin. The CO will also detail the product's specifications and the identities of the exporter and importer. The CO is used for customs purposes, especially when a tariff or other import duty is required. A preferential CO may be used in cases where a regional free trade agreement is in place, in which case less information and scrutiny are needed. Exporters are responsible for issuing and filling out a CO, and are usually endorsed by the local chamber of commerce.
What Is a Certified Financial Planner (CFP)?  

Certified Financial Planner (CFP) is a formal recognition of expertise in the areas of financial planning, taxes, insurance, estate planning, and retirement saving.



Owned and awarded by the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards, Inc., the designation is awarded to individuals who successfully complete the CFP Board's initial exams, then continue ongoing annual education programs to sustain their skills and certification.





Key Takeaways

A certified financial planner (CFP) has received a formal designation from the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards, Inc.CFPs help individuals in a variety of areas in managing their finances, such as retirement, investing, education, insurance, and taxes.Becoming a CFP is a difficult and stringent process. It requires years of experience, successful completion of standardized exams, a demonstration of ethics, and a formal education.The most important aspect quality of a CFP is that they have a fiduciary duty, meaning they must make decisions with their client's best interests in mind.


   Understanding a Certified Financial Planner (CFP)  

CFPs are there to help individuals manage their finances. This can include a variety of needs, such as investment planning, retirement planning, insurance, and education planning. The most important aspect of a CFP is to be a fiduciary of your assets, meaning that they will make decisions with your best interests in mind.



CFPs are all-encompassing, particularly when compared to investment advisors. CFPs will usually start the process by evaluating your current finances, including any cash, assets, investments, or properties, to come up with an estimate of your income and net worth. They also take a look at your liabilities, such as mortgages and student debt.



From this point on they work with you to come up with an individualized financial plan. For example, say you are nearing retirement, the CFP will create a financial plan that can see you through your retirement years. Or perhaps you have a child that will be starting college. The CFP can help create a financial plan to manage that cost.



A CFP is a financial adviser who has earned a certification that indicates in-depth knowledge of financial planning. The requirements to become a CFP are some of the most difficult and stringent in the financial industry.


   CFP and Fiduciary Duty  

All CFPs are held to the standard of fiduciary duty. That means they must always put your interests as a client ahead of their own. For example, if they would more money selling one product over another, but the product that made them less money was better for you, that is the product they must recommend.



A CFP's fiduciary duty is clearly laid out by the CFP Board and states "At all times when providing financial advice to a client, a CFP professional must act as a fiduciary, and therefore, act in the best interest of the client."



The board goes on to state that three duties must be met by an adviser with a fiduciary duty. These are (1) duty of loyalty, (2) duty of care, and (3) duty to follow client instructions.


   How to Become a Certified Financial Planner (CFP)  

Earning the CFP designation involves meeting requirements in four areas: formal education, performance on the CFP exam, relevant work experience, and demonstrated professional ethics.



The education requirements comprise two major components. The candidate must hold a bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited university or college. Second, the candidate must complete a list of specific courses in financial planning, as specified by the CFP Board.



Much of this second requirement is typically waived if the candidate holds certain accepted financial designations, such as a chartered financial analyst (CFA) or certified public accountant (CPA) designation, or has a higher degree in business, such as a master of business administration (MBA).



As for professional experience, candidates must prove they have at least three years (or 6,000 hours) of full-time professional experience in the industry, or two years (4,000 hours) in an apprenticeship role.



Lastly, candidates and CFP holders must adhere to the CFP Board's standards of professional conduct. They must also regularly disclose information about any involvement in criminal activity, inquiries by government agencies, bankruptcies, customer complaints, or terminations by employers. The CFP Board conducts an extensive background check on all candidates before granting the certification.



Even successful completion of the above steps doesn't guarantee receipt of the CFP designation. The CFP Board has final discretion on whether to award the designation to an individual.


   The Certified Financial Planner (CFP) Exam  

The CFP exam includes 170 multiple-choice on more than 100 topics related to financial planning. The scope includes professional conduct and regulations, financial planning principles, education planning, risk management, insurance, investments, tax planning, retirement planning, and estate planning.



The various topic areas are weighted, and the most recent weighting is available on the CFP Board website. Further questions test the candidate's expertise in establishing client-planner relationships and gathering relevant information, and their ability to analyze, develop, communicate, implement, and monitor the recommendations they make to their clients.



Here's some additional information on the administration, costs, and scoring of the CFP exam:



Timing: Candidates sit for two three-hour sessions on a single day; a 40-minute break period separates the sessions. Exams are typically offered in three eight-day windows: March, July, and November.Cost: $925 for an exam administered at a U.S. test site, with a discount for early applications and a surcharge for late ones.Passing Score: This is criterion-referenced, which means performance is measured according to a set level of required competency, rather than against the scores of other individuals who have written the same exam. This prevents any advantages or disadvantages that can occur when past exams were of lower or higher difficulty.Retaking the test: If you fail, you may retake the test up to four additional times.


   CFP vs. CFA  

Though a certified financial planner (CPA) and a chartered financial analyst (CFA) may sound similar, they are different certifications with different job functions and clients. A CFP works with individuals, often retail clients, helping them achieve their financial goals. This includes help in investing and retirement planning.



A CFA works with corporations performing investment analysis. CFAs focus on financial reporting, analysis, and portfolio management. They can trade financial products, such as derivatives, and help in mergers and acquisitions. CFA's usually work for investment banks and hedge funds.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


When Do You Need a CFP?
If you are just looking to invest money in stocks and bonds, a CFP probably isn't needed.If you are looking to manage your finances, investment choices, estate planning, and retirement planning, a CFP can help you with all of those needs.A CFP is a step above a non-designated financial advisor and has demonstrated expertise in financial planning.




How Much Does a CFP Cost?
How much a CFP costs will depend on your specific needs.On average, a CFP charges between $1,800 and $2,500 for preparing a full financial plan. You also should expect $4,000 for a flat-fee retainer or $250 per hour for hourly services.




Is CFP the Same as CFA?
No, CFP and CFA are not the same.A CFP is a certified financial planner who provides financial planning advice to individuals. This includes help with investing, retirement planning, estate planning, and tax law.A CFA is a chartered financial analyst who may work for an investment bank or hedge fund and performs financial analysis, modeling, trading, and portfolio management services.




Is CFP Equivalent to MBA?
No, a CFP is not equivalent to an MBA.A certified financial planner (CFP) is qualified to advise individuals on financial planning.The holder of a master of business degree has studied the way businesses operate.The career paths differ. A CFP works in financial consulting or wealth management. An MBA may be a business manager, portfolio manager, financial analyst, financial strategist, or even an entrepreneur.




Is the CFP Exam Hard?
The CFP exam requires a lot of preparation and covers a wide range of topics in depth. The best way to ensure you pass the CFP exam is by preparing for it well in advance and sticking to a study schedule.


   The Bottom Line  

Becoming a CFP takes education and experience, as well as a strong grasp of financial ethics. The test to gain this distinction is comprised of 170 questions and is split into two three-hour sessions.



Even if candidates pass the test and meet all the requirements, the CFP Board still has the final say about whether to award this distinction. Given the stringent requirements, CFPs can be assumed to have an in-depth understanding of financial planning.
What Is a Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA)?  

Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) refers to a designation issued by the Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA). The designation is the global standard for professionals who have a career in information systems, in particular, auditing, control, and security. CISA holders demonstrate to employers that they have the knowledge, technical skills, and proficiency to meet the dynamic challenges facing modern organizations.





Key Takeaways


Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) is the global standard for professionals who have a career in information systems, in particular, auditing, control, and security.
CISA candidates must pass a comprehensive exam and satisfy industry work experience requirements.
CISA candidates must have a minimum of five years of professional experience and must undertake 20 hours of training per year to keep their designation.
The CISA exam is broken into five domains, and each domain is weighted differently.
The four-hour CISA exam must be passed with a score of 450 in order to earn the CISA certification.



   Understanding Certified Information Systems Auditors (CISAs)  

To receive a Certified Information Systems Auditor certification, candidates must pass a comprehensive exam and satisfy industry work experience requirements. Candidates must also undergo continuing education and professional development and adhere to ISACA’s Code of Professional Ethics and Information Systems Auditing Standards.


   Responsibilities of a Certified Information Systems Auditor  

Certified information systems auditors are often in charge of appraising a company's technology-related systems and assessing a company's set-up for vulnerabilities. A CISA will often be tasked with implementing an audit strategy to review potential risk areas as well as executing and overseeing that audit.



A CISA is often heavily involved in processes before and after an audit as well. Before doing any testing, a CISA will evaluate a company's objectives, systems, and risks to better understand its potential vulnerabilities and strengths. After the audit, a CISA delivers the audit results and often makes recommendations to management for steps to perform.



If/as suggestions are approved and adopted by management, the CISA will often be involved in the implementation and monitoring of security upgrades. This includes performing new tests once the recommendations have been put in place or ensuring management has followed through on control changes.



In addition to overseeing audits, a CISA will often have less formal projects with management on review practices, building risk strategies, performing continuity planning, and monitoring IT personnel. A CISA may also be responsible for drafting and maintaining up to date IT policies, standards, or procedures.






The CISA exam costs $575 for ISACA members and $760 for non-members.


   How to Become a Certified Information Systems Auditor  

There are five steps to become a CISA:



Pass the CISA exam. As discussed below, the CISA certification is awarded to individuals who demonstrate competence in their field.
Submit an application. In addition to passing the exam, the ISACA requires an individual to submit an application demonstrating applicable work experience, educational experience, or a combination of both.
Adhere to the ISACA's Code of Professional Ethics. As is the case with most professional certifications, the ISACA has their own ethical requirements for certification holders. CISA-holders must follow these practices to maintain their license.
Meet CPE requirements. As is also the case with most professional certifications, a CISA must meet continuing education standards to ensure their knowledge is maintained and up-to-date.
Follow the ISACA's Information Systems Auditing Standards. Once an individual holds the certification, they must adhere to the professional standards of executing what they learned and implementing the standards developed by the managing institution.


   Certified Information Systems Auditor Exam  

The CISA exam lasts four hours and consists of 150 multiple-choice questions. To sit for the exam, the candidate must meet specific requirements (discussed below) as well as pay an upfront fee. This fee is value for 12 months. Exam registration must be completed online.



Candidates must score 450 to pass the exam. The exam scores on a scale between 200 and 800. Candidates have the option to sit the exam in June, September, or December in testing centers worldwide. The exam is also available in multiple languages including Chinese Mandarin (simplified and traditional), Spanish, French, Japanese, and Korean.



Exams scheduled at in-person centers is often highly regulated. The testing center will often require an acceptable form of ID. The testing center may also limit the use of prohibited items such as phones, smart watches, headphones, food/beverages, or visitors. The testing center often does now allow for discussion between test participants; any violation of these rules may lead to discontinuation of your exam session.


  CISA Exam Content  



151,000+

The number of CISA certification holders as of September 2022.



The CISA exam tests candidates’ knowledge of five job practice domains:



The Process of Auditing Information Systems (21%). This domain focuses on providing audit services in accordance with designated professional standards that protect and control information systems. This domain is intended to test on planning and execution of risk assessments and audits.
Government and Management of IT (17%). This domain focuses on identifying critical issues and making company-wide recommendations that protect information and related technology resources. This domain is intended to test on IT frameworks, enterprise architecture, laws and regulations, and quality assurance.
Information Systems Acquisition, Development, and Implementation (12%). This domain focuses on the initiating, creation, and ongoing buildout of information systems and their security elements. This domain is intended to test on business cases and feasibility analysis, design methodologies, configuration management, and system migrations.
Information Systems Operations and Business Resilience (23%). This domain focuses on how an information system operates during a normal course of business. This domain is intended to test on information system operations, end-user computing, system resiliency, data back-up, business continuity planning, and disaster recovery plans.
Protection of Information Assets (27%). This domain focuses on cybersecurity and the protection needed to ensure intellectual property or sensitive customer information is protected. This domain is intended to test security, controls, security event management, and physical access limits.


   Certified Information Systems Work Experience Requirements  

CISA candidates must have a minimum of five years of professional experience in information systems auditing, control, or security. There are several work experience substitutions and waivers up to a maximum of three years that candidates can satisfy.



A maximum of one year of information systems experience OR one year of non-information systems auditing experience. (Substitutes one year of work experience.)
Sixty to 120 completed university semester credit hours. (Sixty credit hours substitutes one year of work experience, while 120 credit hours substitute two years of work experience.)
A master’s degree in information security or information technology from an ISACA accredited university. (Substitutes one year of work experience.)
A master’s or bachelor’s degree from a university that sponsors ISACA programs. (Substitutes one year of work experience.)



University instructors who have two years of experience in a related field, such as computer science, information systems auditing, or accounting, can substitute that experience for one year of work experience.


   Certified Information Systems Auditor Continuing Professional Education  

To ensure professionals who hold the CISA designation keep their knowledge of information systems, auditing, and control updated, they are required to undertake 20 hours of training per year and a minimum of 120 hours in a three-year period. ISACA charges an annual maintenance fee to renew the CISA certification. ISACA members pay $45, and nonmembers pay $85.



The ISACA has communicated a broad range of ways CISAs can earn these continuing education credits. This includes attending specific conferences, completing an ISACA Training Week course, performing online training certified by the ISACA, attending specific tech education events, or completing on-demand learning. CISAs can also earn CPE for journal quizzes accessible to members only, volunteering with ISACA, volunteering with One in Tech, or attending certain ISACA activities or meetings.



Each CISA is expected to manage and report their own CPE hours. This is done by logging into their ISACA profile and navigating to the Certifications & CPE Management area. There, users can add new CPE records, enter in training or educational details, and enter the number of CPE earned.





$149,000+

The average salary of a CISA certification holder as of September 2022.


   Benefits of the Certified Information Systems Auditor Certification  

By demonstrating professional competency, CISA holders reap several different benefits:



IT auditors are a niche market. The CISA certification demonstrates specialized, technical knowledge in a specific industry. IT auditing is different than other types of auditing, and the CISA license demonstrates proficiency in this niche area.
Demand for credentialed IT auditors remains strong. As IT capabilities advance and companies shift to remote operations, there continues to be demand for ensuring a company's technology infrastructure meets security and regulatory needs.
CISAs stay relevant in an evolving industry. The CISA certification requires ongoing education; this CPE requirement means professionals must continue to take training on new technologies, modern types of risk, and evolving complexities regarding information systems.
The certification may bring a higher salary or stronger job security. As is the case with any additional education or certification, CISAs have demonstrated their knowledge and proficiency, commanding recognition for being strong leaders in their field. This may lead to raises, promotions, or long-term job stability.
The certificate is transferrable and widely recognized. The CISA is broadly recognized, meaning many companies and industries around the world recognize its merit. 
The exam provides insights into specialized fields. Though information system auditing is already specialized, candidates may realize they enjoy particular aspects of risk management and auditing more than others. This may lead to a greater understanding of career opportunities and career interests.




How Do I Become a Certified Information Systems Auditor?
To become a CISA, you must pass an exam hosted by the ISACA, meet application requirements, and earn continuing education credits upon achieving certification. In addition, you must act in accordance with the ISACA's ethical and professional standards.




How Long Does It Take to Become a Certified Information Systems Auditor?
The most direct timeline to become a CISA is five years, as the ISACA requires half of a decade of professional experience on your application. There are exceptions to this rule, and candidates can apply for a waiver. In addition, there are educational requirements to satisfy as part of the certification process.




What Does a Certified Information Systems Auditor Do?
A CISA oversees, manages, and protects a company's information systems, IT, or related departments. This includes performing audits of processes and products, performing risk mitigation techniques to prevent security breaches, and collaborating with other departments to ensure their technology needs are being met without comprising security or creating system vulnerabilities.


   The Bottom Line  

The Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) certificate demonstrates professional proficiency in the field of IT security and risk mitigation. CISA must have years of professional experience and pass a 150-question exam to demonstrate this knowledge. Once armed with a CISA license, auditors may enjoy greater job security, better knowledge of their industry, and continual growth through CPE requirements.
What Is a Certified Management Accountant (CMA)?  

Certified management accountant (CMA) is an accounting designation that signifies expertise in financial accounting and strategic management. The professionals who obtain this designation are colloquially known as CMAs and are qualified for a variety of roles ranging from financial controller to chief financial officer (CFO).





Key Takeaways

The certified management accountant (CMA) designation indicates expertise in financial accounting and decision-making.This certification prepares professionals for a wide variety of careers.CMAs are required to adhere to a strict set of professional standards, in addition to passing a rigorous two-part exam.


   How Certified Management Accountants (CMAs) Work  

The certified management accountant (CMA) certification, which is issued by the Institute of Management Accountants (IMA), builds on financial accounting proficiency by adding management skills that aid in making strategic business decisions based on financial data.



Oftentimes, the reports and analyses prepared by certified management accountants (CMAs) will go above and beyond those required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). For example, in addition to a company’s required GAAP financial statements, CMAs may prepare additional management reports that provide specific insights useful to corporate decision-makers, such as performance metrics on specific company departments, products, or even employees.






Unlike the certified public accountant (CPA) certification, CMA certification is not mandatory for many jobs in finance.



As with other financial designations such as certified public accountant (CPA) or chartered financial analyst (CFA) certifications, certified management accountants (CMAs) are subject to a strict code of ethics. To obtain the CMA, candidates must have a bachelor’s degree or a related professional certification as well as two years of continuous work experience in a related field. Candidates must also pass a rigorous exam, which typically requires over 300 hours of preparation.



According to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), CMAs must also hold active membership in the Institute of Management Accountants.


   Real-World Example of a Certified Management Accountant (CMA)  

Dorothy is an entrepreneur who manages a small construction supply company. Recently, she was invited to bid on a contract that would require her to significantly increase her number of employees. Although she felt that the project would be a great opportunity for her business, she wondered whether she would have the financial reporting capacity to effectively manage that increased headcount.



To help address this problem, Dorothy decides to hire Dennis, a certified management accountant (CMA). To obtain his designation, Dennis had to pass a two-part exam covering subject areas such as budgeting and forecasting, performance management, cost measurement, and internal controls. In interviewing for the position, Dennis argues that these skills would allow him to support Dorothy in assessing the costs and benefits of this new project, while also effectively managing the costs and logistics involved in servicing new customers.



With Dennis’s expertise, Dorothy is able to increase her team size without losing oversight of her internal costs and procedures. On the contrary, Dennis’s skill set provides newfound transparency to her business, allowing Dorothy to better assess the performance of individual team members and the profitability of specific projects.



In the future, Dennis’s combination of accounting skills and fluency with managerial decision-making puts him in a good position to adopt executive positions within the company or at another employer.


   Special Considerations  

Certified management accountants (CMAs) and other accountants are expected to be in growing demand over the coming years. Between 2019 and 2029, the hiring of accountants is projected to grow by 4%. Due to the absence of standardization, this growth is expected to continue in the management accounting sector because companies have considerable freedom in designing management accounting systems.﻿﻿
What Is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA)?  

A certified public accountant (CPA) is a designation provided to licensed accounting professionals. The CPA license is provided by the Board of Accountancy for each state. The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) provides resources on obtaining the license. The CPA designation helps enforce professional standards in the accounting industry.



Other countries have certifications equivalent to the CPA designation, notably, the chartered accountant (CA) designation.





Key Takeaways

The certified public accountant (CPA) is a professional designation given to qualified accountants.To become a CPA, you must pass a rigorous exam, known as the Uniform CPA Exam.Certified public accountants must meet education, work, and examination requirements—including holding a bachelor’s degree in business administration, finance, or accounting, and completing 150 hours of education.Other requirements for the CPA designation include having two or more years of public accounting.CPAs generally hold various positions in public and corporate accounting, as well as executive positions, such as the controller or chief financial officer (CFO). 


   Understanding a Certified Public Accountant (CPA)  

Not all accountants are CPAs. Those who earn the CPA credential distinguish themselves by signaling dedication, knowledge, and skill. CPAs are involved with accounting tasks such as producing reports that accurately reflect the business dealings of the companies and individuals for which they work. They are also involved in tax reporting and filing for both individuals and businesses. A CPA can help people and companies choose the best course of action in terms of minimizing taxes and maximizing profitability.



Obtaining the certified public accountant (CPA) designation requires a bachelor’s degree in business administration, finance, or accounting. Individuals are also required to complete 150 hours of education and have no fewer than two years of public accounting experience. To receive the CPA designation, a candidate also must pass the Uniform CPA Exam.



Additionally, keeping the CPA designation requires completing a specific number of continuing education hours yearly.


   The CPA Exam  

The CPA exam has 276 multiple-choice questions, 28 task-based simulations, and three writing portions. These are divided into four main sections: 



Auditing and Attestation (AUD)
Financial Accounting and Reporting (FAR)
Regulation (REG)
Business Environment and Concepts (BEC)



Multiple-choice questions count for 50% of the total score and tasked-based simulations count for the other 50%. You must score at least 75% to pass each section.



Candidates have four hours to complete each section, with a total exam time of 16 hours. Each section is taken individually, and candidates can choose the order in which they take them. Candidates must pass all four sections of the exam within 18 months. The beginning of the 18-month time frame varies by jurisdiction.






The CPA designation is specific to the country in which the exam is taken, though it is a well-known program that is offered in many countries around the world. International equivalency exams are also offered so that CPAs can work in countries other than the one in which they were certified.


   CPA Career Paths  

CPAs have a wide range of career options available, either in public accounting (that is, working for an accounting firm) or corporate accounting (working inside a company), or in government service. Individuals with the CPA designation can also move into executive positions such as controllers or chief financial officers (CFOs).



Those earning the CPA generally end up as an accountant of some sort. That is, they put together, maintain, and review financial statements and related transactions for companies. Many CPAs file tax forms or returns for individuals and businesses. CPAs can perform and sign off on audits.



Though known for their role in income tax preparation, CPAs can specialize in many other areas, such as auditing, bookkeeping, forensic accounting, managerial accounting, and even aspects of information technology (IT).



The CPA designation isn’t required to work in corporate accounting or for private companies. However, public accountants⁠—which are individuals working for a firm, such as Deloitte or Ernst & Young, that provides accounting and tax-related services to businesses—must hold a CPA designation.


   CPA Ethics  

Certified public accountants are subject to a code of ethics. The AICPA requires that all CPA designation holders adhere to the Code of Professional Conduct, which lays out the ethical standards CPAs must adhere to.



The Enron scandal is an example of CPAs not adhering to such a code. Arthur Andersen company executives and CPAs were charged with illegal and unethical accounting practices. Federal and state laws require CPAs to maintain independence when performing audits and reviews. While consulting at Enron, Arthur Andersen CPAs did not maintain independence and performed both consulting services and auditing services, which violates the CPA code of ethics.



The CPA designation has become more important after the Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Act of 2002, which was passed partly in response to corporate financial scandals like the Enron affair.






To give yourself the best chance possible when taking the exam, taking one of the best CPA prep courses might be worth considering.


   History of the CPA Designation  

In 1887, 31 accountants created the American Association of Public Accountants (AAPA) to define moral standards for the accounting industry and U.S. auditing standards for local, state, and federal governments, private companies, and nonprofits. Renamed several times over the years, the organization has been known as the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) since 1957. The first CPAs received licenses in 1896.



In 1934, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required all publicly traded companies to file periodic financial reports endorsed by members of the accounting industry. The AICPA established accounting standards until 1973 when the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) was launched to set standards for private companies.



The accounting industry thrived in the late 1990s due to large accounting firms expanding their services to include various forms of consulting. The Enron scandal in 2001 resulted in major changes in the accounting industry, including the fact that Arthur Andersen, one of the nation’s top accounting firms, went out of business. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which was passed in 2002, accountants were subject to tougher restrictions about their consulting assignments.




What Are the Responsibilities of a CPA?
Depending on their particular role, a CPA may be involved in one or more aspects of the accounting profession. CPAs can specialize in areas like forensic accounting, personal financial planning, and taxation. In addition, CPAs must complete continuing education requirements and uphold a standard of ethics.




What Can CPAs Do that Accountants Cannot?
CPA is a credential earned by accountants. As such, CPAs are often accountants that perform the same duties and functions as an accountant without the designation. CPAs, however, are granted certain roles that only they can perform. These include performing audits of public U.S. companies and preparing audited financial statements for a company, such as a balance sheet or an income statement.




Which Is Better: an MBA or CPA?
The MBA is an academic masters degree in business administration. If you are interested in starting or running a business, the MBA is a comprehensive degree that may be better for you. The CPA is a professional designation earned by accountants. If you are a "numbers person" or interested only in the accounting profession, the CPA may be better for you.




Is Becoming a CPA Worth It?
Earning the CPA credential is a big time commitment, and the exam process is difficult. Still, those with a CPA earn 25% more, on average, than non-CPA accountants. Also, accountants with a CPA certification tend to advance to positions of more responsibility within one to two years and often are promoted to senior-level jobs within a few years after that.
What Is Ceteris Paribus?  

Ceteris paribus, literally "holding other things constant," is a Latin phrase that is commonly translated into English as "all else being equal."



A dominant assumption in mainstream economic thinking, it acts as a shorthand indication of the effect of one economic variable on another, provided all other variables remain the same (constant). In the scientific sense, if we claim that one variable influences another, ceteris paribus, we are essentially controlling for the effects of some other variables.





Key Takeaways

Ceteris paribus is a Latin phrase that generally means "all other things being equal."In economics, it acts as a shorthand indication of the effect one economic variable has on another, provided all other variables remain the same.Many economists rely on ceteris paribus to describe relative tendencies in markets and to build and test economic models.The difficulty with ceteris paribus is the challenge of holding all other variables constant in an effort to isolate what is driving change.In reality, one can never assume "all other things being equal."












Investopedia / Katie Kerpel


   Understanding Ceteris Paribus  

In the fields of economics and finance, ceteris paribus is often used when making arguments about cause and effect. An economist might say raising the minimum wage increases unemployment, increasing the supply of money causes inflation, reducing marginal costs boosts economic profits for a company, or establishing rent control laws in a city causes the supply of available housing to decrease. Of course, these outcomes can be influenced by a variety of factors, but using ceteris paribus allows all other factors to remain constant, focusing on the impact of only one.



Ceteris paribus assumptions help transform an otherwise deductive social science into a methodologically positive "hard" science. It creates an imaginary system of rules and conditions from which economists can pursue a specific end. Put another way; it helps the economist circumvent human nature and the problems of limited knowledge.



Most, though not all, economists rely on ceteris paribus to build and test economic models. In simple language, it means the economist can hold all variables in the model constant and tinker with them one at a time. Ceteris paribus has its limitations, especially when such arguments are layered on top of one another. Nevertheless, it is an important and useful way to describe relative tendencies in markets.


   Applications of Ceteris Paribus  

Suppose that you wanted to explain the price of milk. With a little thought, it becomes apparent that milk costs are influenced by numerous things: the availability of cows, their health, the costs of feeding cows, the amount of useful land, the costs of possible milk substitutes, the number of milk suppliers, the level of inflation in the economy, consumer preferences, transportation, and many other variables. So an economist instead applies ceteris paribus, which essentially says if all other factors remain constant, a reduction in the supply of milk-producing cows, for example, causes the price of milk to rise.


  Supply and Demand  

As an example, take the laws of supply and demand. Economists say the law of demand demonstrates that ceteris paribus, more goods tend to be purchased at lower prices. Or that, if demand for any given product exceeds the product's supply, ceteris paribus, prices will likely rise. In this situation, the price of an item is the only variable that should change. All else should remain ceteris paribus. If only the price were to change, we can appropriately forecast the outcome because of the laws of supply and demand.


  Macroeconomics/GDP  

In general, economists and other social scientists will report how variables influence one another while holding all else constant. So, if we say that low unemployment is associated with higher inflation, ceteris paribus, it means holding everything else constant like GDP growth, balance of trade, money supply, and so on. However, each of these other factors, among others, also can play into inflation.


  Minimum Wage  

We can also say the same thing about the minimum wage: ceteris paribus, raising the minimum wage is thought to lower employment as businesses cut costs. But this also ignores many other social and political factors. For example, employees may work harder and be more productive with higher wages. Or, better-paid workers may spend more and increase aggregate demand.


  Interest Rates  

There is often an inverse relationship between interest rates and the demand for borrowing. This is because higher interest rates cause loans to become more expensive. Therefore, ceteris paribus, higher interest rates cause decreased demand for debt. Of course, other factors (consumer demand, consumer preference, consumer creditworthiness) are all considers that may change the outcome of the statement. However, when all factors regarding the borrower are isolated, higher interest rates mean higher loan costs which decreases demand.


  Supply Chain  

There are a tremendous amount of factors that go into a unit's production. This includes delivery of raw materials, labor hours, equipment availability, ingredient pricing, packing and delivery, or distribution. Therefore, when considering how an item may move throughout the supply chain process, economists may make claims on outcomes assuming all other variables are constant. For example, ceteris paribus, higher raw material prices will decrease manufacturing supply if companies don't increase their production budgets. This claim does not consider labor hours, packaging, or delivery.






Since economic variables can only be isolated in theory and not in practice, ceteris paribus can only ever highlight tendencies, not absolutes.


   Ceteris Paribus and Economic Science  

Two major publications helped move mainstream economics from a deductive social science based on logical observations and deductions into an empirically positivist natural science. The first was Léon Walras' Elements of Pure Economics, published in 1874, which introduced general equilibrium theory. The second was John Maynard Keynes' The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money, first published in 1936, which created modern macroeconomics.



In an attempt to be more like the academically respected "hard sciences" of physics and chemistry, economics became math-intensive. Variable uncertainty, however, was a major problem; economics could not isolate controlled and independent variables for math equations. There was also a problem with applying the scientific method, which isolates specific variables and tests their interrelatedness to prove or disprove a hypothesis.



Economics does not naturally lend itself to scientific hypothesis testing as does physics. In the field of epistemology, scientists can learn through logical thought experiments, also called deduction, or through empirical observation and testing, also called positivism. Geometry is a logically deductive science.



Physics is an empirically positive science. Unfortunately, economics and the scientific method are naturally incompatible. No economist has the power to control all economic actors, hold all of their actions constant, and then run specific tests. No economist can even identify all of the critical variables in a given economy. For any given economic event, there could be dozens or hundreds of potential independent variables.



Enter ceteris paribus. Mainstream economists construct abstract models where they pretend all variables are held constant, except the one they want to test. This style of pretending, called ceteris paribus, is the crux of general equilibrium theory.



As economist Milton Friedman wrote in 1953, "theory is to be judged by its predictive power for the class of phenomena which it is intended to 'explain.'" By imagining all variables save one are held constant, economists can transform relative deductive market tendencies into absolute controllable mathematical progressions. Human nature is replaced with balanced equations.






Ceteris paribus drives supply and demand curve expectations. The relationship between quantity and price can only be determined if the variables in question are influenced and the rest are held constant.


   Benefits of Ceteris Paribus  
  Uses Scientific Method Approach  

Suppose an economist wants to prove a minimum wage causes unemployment or that easy money causes inflation. They could not possibly set up two identical test economies and introduce a minimum wage law or start printing dollar bills. So the positive economist, charged with testing their theories, must create a suitable framework for the scientific method, even if this means making very unrealistic assumptions. The economist assumes buyers and sellers are price-takers rather than price-makers.


  Leverages Perfect Information  

The economist also assumes actors have perfect information about their choices since any indecision or incorrect decision based on incomplete information creates a loophole in the model. If the models produced in ceteris paribus economics appear to make accurate predictions in the real world, the model is considered successful. If the models do not appear to make accurate predictions, they are revised.


  Employs Positive Economics  

This can make positive economics tricky; circumstances might exist that make one model look correct one day but incorrect a year later. Some economists reject positivism and embrace deduction as the principal mechanism of discovery. The majority, however, accept the limits of ceteris paribus assumptions, to make the field of economics more like chemistry and less like philosophy.


  Enables Price Discovery  

As economists compile data from various scenarios, static supply and demand charts are formed to devise a strategic plan of pricing, supply, or other economic factors. As a single variable is tweaked, a demand curve should be formed that allows for theoretical pricing application without having to go to market with those actual prices.


  Overcomes Impossible Scenarios  

Without ceteris paribus, many scenarios that are analyzed simply would not be able to happen. For example, consider the situation where only variable along a supply chain changes and all other variables remain static and unchanged. This situation would not able to occur in real life as so many aspects of the supply chain are uncontrollable. Therefore, ceteris paribus allows for economists and analysts to devise scenarios that would otherwise not be able to exist.


   Criticisms of Ceteris Paribus  
  Overcomes Impossible Scenarios  

Ceteris paribus assumptions are at the heart of nearly all mainstream microeconomic and macroeconomic models. Even so, some critics of mainstream economics point out that ceteris paribus gives economists the excuse to bypass real problems about human nature. Though this can be a benefit for theoretical application, these scenarios also may never play out in the real world which contests how applicable some findings may be.



Let's go back to the example of supply and demand, one of the favorite uses of ceteris paribus. Every introductory textbook on microeconomics shows static supply and demand charts where prices are given to both producers and consumers; that is, at a given price, consumers demand and producers supply a certain amount.



This is a necessary step, at least in this framework, so that economics can assume away the difficulties in the price-discovery process. But prices are not a separate entity in the real world of producers and consumers. Rather, consumers and producers themselves determine prices based on how much they subjectively value the good in question versus the quantity of money for which it is traded.


  Dilutes Logical Value  

Economists admit these assumptions are highly unrealistic, and yet these models lead to concepts such as utility curves, cross elasticity, and monopoly. Antitrust legislation is actually predicated on perfect competition arguments. The Austrian school of economics believes ceteris paribus assumptions have been taken too far, transforming economics from a useful, logical social science into a series of math problems.


  May Overshadow What Should Be Analyzed  

Financial consultant Frank Shostak wrote that this supply-demand framework is "detached from the facts of reality." Rather than solving equilibrium situations, he argued, students should learn how prices emerge in the first place. He claimed any subsequent conclusions or public policies derived from these abstract graphical representations are necessarily flawed.



Like prices, many other factors that affect the economy or finance are continuously in flux. Independent studies or tests may allow for the use of the ceteris paribus principle. But in reality, with something like the stock market, one can never assume "all other things being equal." There are too many factors affecting stock prices that can and do change constantly; you can't isolate just one.


  Ignores Human Nature and Emotions  

As nice as a black and white world would be, the truth is there are too many variables tied to human nature. Humans are naturally unpredictable and act in irrational ways. Though economic laws may make sense, there are situations in which people don't do what is theoretically the best for them to do. In these cases, items like the law of supply and the law of demand may be broken, causing any analysis to falter.




Ceteris Paribus Pros and Cons

Pros

Employs a scientific method approach to solving for variables
Uses positive economics that can test theories
Is extensively used in both macroeconomics and microeconomics
Allows for otherwise impossible situations to be analyzed
May aid in helping form price discovery or demand charts



Cons

May represent impossible situations which may hold little to not analytical value
Often omit the human element as it assumes all actions are rational and follow strict economic law
Does not consider the subjective value consumers may pursue
May detract from focusing on the aspects of a situation that do change in tandem with other variables





   Ceteris Paribus vs. Mutatis Mutandis  

While somewhat similar in assumption aspects, ceteris paribus is not to be confused with mutatis mutandis, translated as "once necessary changes have been made.” It is used to acknowledge that a comparison, such as the comparison of two variables, requires certain necessary alterations that are left unsaid because of their obviousness. 



In contrast, ceteris paribus excludes any and all changes except for those that are explicitly spelled out. More specifically, the phrase mutatis mutandis is largely encountered when talking about counterfactuals, used as a shorthand to indicate initial and derived changes that have been previously discussed or are assumed to be obvious.



The ultimate difference between these two contrasting principles boils down to correlation versus causation. The principle of ceteris paribus facilitates the study of the causal effect of one variable on another. Conversely, the principle of mutatis mutandis facilitates an analysis of the correlation between the effect of one variable on another, while other variables change at will.




What Is Ceteris Paribus in Economics?
Ceteris paribus in economics is a reference to how one isolated variable may change an economic environment assuming all other variables remain the same. In economics, ceteris paribus is often highly hypothetical as national economics and macroeconomic conditions are highly intricate and complex. However, ceteris paribus is the practice of seeing how a single economic concept (i.e. inflation) can impact broader concepts.




What Is an Example of Ceteris Paribus in Economics?
All things being equal, if the price of milk increases, people will buy less milk. This assumption ignores how other substitutes are behaving, how household income is behaving, or non-economic factors such as the health benefits of milk. Ceteris paribus, people will buy less of a product if the price is higher.




Is Ceteris Paribus a Law?
Ceteris paribus is considered natural law. It is not codified by any government; instead, it is thought to naturally occur based on how certain variables interact. For example, if the United States drilled for more oil domestically, there would be more supply for gasoline and the price of gas would drop. There is no law that defines that this would happen; it's simply assumed as the outcome based on how situations naturally flow together.




What Does Ceteris Paribus Help Find?
Ceteris paribus helps determine what variables impact outcomes. By holding one variable constant or assuming that only one variable changes, it is inferred that any corresponding change is directly correlated to that single variable. Ceteris paribus may help drive metrics on customer taste, customer preference, consumer spending, the price of goods, market expectations, or government policy.


   The Bottom Line  

Ceteris paribus is a broad term that defines what variables are changing or what variables are remaining the same in a given situation. Often, to isolate only one variable, economists cite ceteris paribus to clarify that their assumptions on a given outcome are only valid if all other variables are remaining the same. Though ceteris paribus is truly unlikely due to the complexity of macroeconomic factors, it may still be useful in testing variables and determining what causes outcomes.
What Is a Chair?  

A chair is an executive elected by a company's board of directors who is responsible for presiding over board or committee meetings. A chair often sets the agenda and has significant sway as to how the board votes. The chair ensures that meetings run smoothly and remain orderly, and they work at achieving a consensus in board decisions.





Key Takeaways

A chair is an executive elected by a company's board of directors who is responsible for presiding over board meetings.A chair often sets the agenda and has significant sway as to how the board votes.The CEO runs the company and is the person that company executives report to, but since the CEO is appointed by the board, the chair can influence who will be chosen as CEO.In some companies, the roles of CEO and chair are combined, which can reduce transparency and accountability due to fewer checks and balances.


   Understanding a Chair  

The chair heads up the board of directors for a company. A board of directors is a group of individuals elected to represent shareholders. A board’s mandate is to establish policies for corporate management and oversight, making decisions on major company issues. The board of directors should be a representation of both management and shareholder interests and, typically, consists of both internal and external members. Every public company must have a board of directors.



The board is tasked with making important decisions, which can include corporate officer appointments, executive compensation, and dividend policy. As a result, the chair has significant power and clout when it comes to influencing decisions made by the board.



The chief executive officer (CEO) runs the company and is the person whose company executives report to, but the CEO is appointed by the board. So a chair can influence who will be chosen as CEO or to lead the company. However, in most cases, the chair doesn't get involved with the CEO's responsibilities, which helps maintain clarity of roles and separation of powers.



As more women take on chair positions at leading organizations, some confusion has arisen over the correct title to use (i.e., "chair" or "chairwoman"). Christine Lagarde, who was managing director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), decided on the term "Madame chair of the executive board" for the position.


   Chair vs. CEO  

The chair is a different position than that of the CEO and can be either a non-executive or executive position. In some companies, the roles of CEO and chair are combined, which can reduce transparency and accountability due to fewer checks and balances, which are created by having two separate positions with separate job functions.



While the chair of the board has several supervisory abilities, the CEO’s primary responsibilities include all major corporate decisions, ranging from day-to-day operations to managing company resources, serving as the main point of communication between the board of directors and other executives. Also, a CEO often has a position on the board.



The CEO's role depends on the size, culture, and industry of the company. For example, in small companies, the CEO will often take on a more hands-on role, making a range of lower-level choices, such as interviewing and hiring of staff.



In larger (e.g., Fortune 500) companies, the CEO typically deals with macro-level strategy and the direction of growth. Other tasks are delegated to division executives. CEOs set the tone and the vision for their organization and are responsible for executing the strategy to achieve that vision. Typically, CEOs of major corporations are well known to investors, shareholders, and analysts, while chairmen or chairpersons usually remain out of the spotlight.



Although the CEO runs the company, the chair is considered a peer with the other board members, and it's possible to overrule a CEO's decisions if the board votes together.



The chair can have significant power and clout when it comes to influencing decisions made by the board including choosing the CEO.


   Examples of a Chair  

JP Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) combines the positions with Jamie Dimon as both the CEO and chair of the financial services company.



Apple Inc. (AAPL) splits the roles, with Tim Cook holding the CEO position while Arthur D. Levinson holds the chair position. Mr. Levinson was the former CEO and chair of Genentech and is currently the CEO of Calico.



On the other hand, Meta (META), formerly Facebook, has one role for Mark Zuckerberg as Founder, Chair, and CEO of the social media giant.



As stated earlier, some companies have the CEO and chair roles as separate positions while others combine the roles. In the case of founder-led companies, it's common to see the founder have multiple roles including chair and CEO. However, over time, the roles might be bifurcated in founder-led companies if the financial results are not up to par or the founder wants to move on to other endeavors.
What Is Channel Stuffing?  

Channel stuffing is a deceptive business practice used by a company to inflate its sales and earnings figures by deliberately sending retailers along its distribution channel more products than they are able to sell to the public. Channel stuffing typically would take place immediately prior to a reporting period such as quarter-end or year-end, so that management, fearful of bad consequences to their compensation, can "make their numbers."





Key Takeaways

Channel stuffing refers to the practice of a company shipping more goods to distributors and retailers along the distribution channel than end-users are likely to buy in a reasonable time period.By channel stuffing, distributors temporarily increase sales figures and related profit measures for a particular period.Regulators frown on the practice and consider it deceptive. In some cases, legal action can be brought to the offending company.


   How Channel Stuffing Works  

Channel stuffing refers to the practice of a company shipping more goods to distributors and retailers along the distribution channel than end-users are likely to buy in a reasonable time period. This is usually achieved by offering lucrative incentives, including deep discounts, rebates, and extended payment terms, to persuade distributors and retailers to buy quantities in excess of their current needs.



Usually, distributors retain the right to return any unsold inventory which calls into question whether a final sale has actually occurred. “Stuffing” the distribution channel is frowned upon by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a practice used by companies to accelerate revenue recognition to reach short-term revenue and earnings targets, and as such, misleading to investors.



By channel stuffing, distributors temporarily increase sales figures and related profit measures for a particular period. This activity also causes an artificial bump up of accounts receivables. However, unable to sell the excess products, retailers will send back the surplus goods instead of cash to the distributor, who then must readjust its accounts receivable (if it adheres to GAAP procedure) and ultimately its bottom line.



In other words, stuffing always catches up with the company, because it cannot maintain sales at the rate it is stuffing. Channel stuffing is not confined to the wholesale and retail trade; it can take place in the industrial sector, high tech industry, and the pharmaceutical industry as well. Valeant Pharmaceuticals is an egregious example of a company found guilty in 2016 of channel stuffing.



Channel stuffing accusations have also been levied against the automobile industry, which sends too many new cars to dealerships than demand warrants in order to inflate sales figures.






This fraudulent practice is usually done in an attempt to hit compensation targets or to raise the value of the stock or prevent its fall upon release of quarterly or annual results.


   An Example of Channel Stuffing  

In August of 2004, pharmaceutical company Bristol-Meyers Squibb (NYSE: BMY) agreed to pay $150 million to settle a channel stuffing suit by the SEC.



Court documents reveal the following:



For two years Bristol-Myers deceived the market into believing that it was meeting its financial projections and market expectations, when, in fact, the company was making its numbers primarily through channel-stuffing and manipulative accounting devices. Severe sanctions are necessary to hold Bristol-Myers accountable for its violative coduct, and deter Bristol-Myers and other public companies from engaging in similar schemes.



Bristol-Myers inflated its results primarily by stuffing its distribution channels with excess inventory near the end of every quarter in amounts sufficient to meet its targets by making pharmaceutical sales to its wholesalers ahead of demand. As a result of its channel-stuffing, Bristol-Myers materially understated its accruals for rebates due to Medicaid and certain of its prime vendors, customers of its wholesalers that purchased large quantities of pharmaceutical products from those wholesalers.



In addition to paying its multi-million dollar fine, in March 003, Bristol-Myers restatedpior financial statements and disclosed its channel-stuffing activities and improper accounting.
What Is Chapter 11?  

Chapter 11 is a form of bankruptcy that involves the reorganization of a debtor's business affairs, debts, and assets. It is also referred to as a "reorganization" bankruptcy.





Key Takeaways

A Chapter 11 bankruptcy allows a company to stay in business and restructure its obligations.If a company filing for Chapter 11 opts to propose a reorganization plan, it must be in the best interest of the creditors.If the debtor does not put forth a plan, the creditors may propose one instead.Many major corporations, including General Motors and K-Mart, have used Chapter 11 bankruptcies as an opportunity to restructure their debts while continuing to do business.


   How Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Works  

Chapter 11 is named after a section of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Companies that file Chapter 11 do so in order to obtain time to restructure their debts and make a fresh start. The terms are subject to the debtor fulfilling its obligations under the plan of reorganization.



During a Chapter 11 proceeding, the court will help a business restructure its debts and obligations. In most cases, the company remains open and operating. Many large U.S. companies have filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy at one time or another to stay afloat. They include such well-known names as General Motors, United Airlines, K-mart, and thousands of other companies of all sizes.



Corporations, partnerships, and limited liability companies (LLCs) usually file Chapter 11, but in rare cases, individuals with a lot of debt who do not qualify for Chapter 7 or 13 may be eligible for Chapter 11. However, the process is not a speedy one.



A business in the midst of filing Chapter 11 may continue to operate. In most cases the debtor, called a "debtor in possession," runs the business as usual. However, in cases involving fraud, dishonesty, or gross incompetence, a court-appointed trustee will step in to run the company throughout the bankruptcy proceeding.



The business is not able to make certain decisions without the permission of the courts. These include the sale of assets, other than inventory, starting or terminating a rental agreement, and stopping or expanding business operations. The court also has control over decisions related to retaining and paying attorneys and entering contracts with vendors and unions. Finally, the debtor cannot arrange a loan that will commence after the bankruptcy is complete.



In Chapter 11, the business or individual filing for bankruptcy has the first chance to propose a reorganization plan. These plans may include downsizing business operations to reduce expenses, as well as renegotiating debts. In some cases, plans involve liquidating all assets to repay creditors. If the chosen path is feasible and fair, the courts accept it, and the process moves forward.


   Chapter 11 and Small Business  

The Small Business Reorganization Act of 2019, which went into effect on Feb. 19, 2020, added a new subchapter V to Chapter 11 designed to make bankruptcy easier for small businesses, which are "defined as entities with less than about $2.7 million in debts that also meet other criteria," according to the U.S. Department of Justice.



The act "imposes shorter deadlines for completing the bankruptcy process, allows for greater flexibility in negotiating restructuring plans with creditors, and provides for a private trustee who will work with the small business debtor and its creditors to facilitate the development of a consensual plan of reorganization," the Justice Department says. 






Because Chapter 11 is the most expensive and complex form of bankruptcy, most companies explore all alternative routes before filing for one.


   Chapter 11 Example  

In January 2019 Gymboree Group Inc., a popular children's clothing chain, announced that it had filed for Chapter 11 and was closing all of its Gymboree, Gymboree Outlet, and Crazy 8 stores in Canada and the United States.



According to a press release from Gymboree, the company had received a commitment for a debtor in possession financing ($30 million in new money loans) provided by SSIG and Goldman Sachs Specialty Lending Holdings, Inc. and a "roll-up" of all of Gymboree's obligations under the "prepetition Term Loan Credit Agreement."



It added that it was "continuing to pursue a going-concern sale of its Janie and Jack business and a sale of the intellectual property and online platform for Gymboree." Gap announced in March 2019 that it had purchased Janie and Jack. In early 2020, Gymboree made its return as a "shop-in-a-shop" in Children's Place locations and with a new online store.



This was the second time in two years that the Gymboree Group Inc. had filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11. The first occurred in 2017, when the company was able to successfully reorganize and significantly lower its debts.




What Are the All Chapters of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code?
There are officially six chapters in the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. They are: Chapter 7 (liquidation), Chapter 9 (municipalities), Chapter 11 (reorganization, usually for businesses), Chapter 12 (family farmers), Chapter 13 (repayments options), and Chapter 15 (international bankruptcies). Of these, Chapter 7, Chapter 11, and Chapter 13 are the most common.




What Is the Difference Between Chapter 7 and Chapter 11?
Chapter 7, also referred to as liquidation bankruptcy, is when the court appoints a trustee to oversee the sale of as many of an individual's assets as are needed to pay their creditors. Unsecured debt, like credit card debt, is usually erased. However, Chapter 7 does not forgive any tax obligations or student loans. Individuals are allowed to keep "exempt" property.By contrast, Chapter 11 is a form of bankruptcy that involves a reorganization of a debtor's business affairs, debts, and assets. It is most often used by businesses, though it is available to some individuals as well. The main difference is that the entity filing for bankruptcy remains in control of operations and is not required to liquidate their assets.




Are There Advantages to Filing Chapter 11?
The biggest advantage is that the entity, usually a business, can continue operations while going through the reorganization process. This allows it to generate cash flow that can aid in the repayment process. The court also issues an order that keeps creditors at bay. Most creditors are receptive to Chapter 11 as they stand to recoup more, if not all, of their money over the course of the repayment plan than if the company simply went out of business.




What Are the Disadvantages of Filing Chapter 11?
Chapter 11 bankruptcy is the most complex of all bankruptcy types. It is also usually the most expensive. For a company that is struggling to the point where it is considering filing for bankruptcy, the legal costs alone might be onerous. Plus, the reorganization plan has to be approved by the bankruptcy court and must be manageable enough that the business can reasonably pay off the debt over time.


   The Bottom Line  

Chapter 11 can allow a business that is experiencing serious financial difficulties to regroup and get back on track. However, it is complex, costly, and time-consuming. For these reasons, a company must consider Chapter 11 reorganization only after careful analysis and exploration of all other possible alternatives.
What Is a Chart of Accounts?  

A chart of accounts (COA) is an index of all of the financial accounts in a company's general ledger. In short, it is an organizational tool that lists by category and line item all of the financial transactions that a company conducted during a specific accounting period.





Key Takeaways

A chart of accounts is a financial organizational tool that provides a complete listing, by category, of every account in the general ledger of a company.It is used to organize finances and give interested parties, such as investors and shareholders, a clearer view and understanding of a company’s financial health.To ensure the quick location of specific accounts, each COA typically contains an identification code, name, and brief description.COAs can be modified by a company to fit its size and type of business.It's important to use the same COA format over time for the accuracy of period-to-period comparisons.


   How a Chart of Accounts Works  

Companies use a COA to organize their finances and give interested parties, such as investors and shareholders, a clear view and understanding of their financial health. Separating expenditures, revenue, assets, and liabilities helps to achieve this and ensures that financial statements are in compliance with reporting standards.



Here is a way to think about a COA, as it relates to your own finances. Say you have a checking account, a savings account, and a certificate of deposit (CD) at the same bank. When you log in to your account online, you’ll typically go to an overview page that shows the balance in each account. Similarly, if you use an online program that helps you manage all your accounts in one place, like Mint or Personal Capital, you’re looking at basically the same thing as a company’s COA. You can see all your assets and liabilities, all on one page.



There is no single format for a chart of accounts. Typically, they all follow the essential structure described below. But the final structure and look will depend on the type of business and its size.


  COA Structure  

The COA is typically set up to display information in the order that it appears in financial statements. That means that balance sheet accounts are listed first and are followed by accounts in the income statement.



These primary accounts of assets, liabilities, shareholders' equity, revenue, and expenses can then be broken down into sub-accounts such as operating revenues, operating expenses, non-operating revenues, and non-operating losses.



In addition, the operating revenues and operating expenses accounts might be further organized by business function and/or by company divisions.



As an example, a small company COA might include these sub-accounts under the primary assets, primary liabilities, and primary shareholders' equity accounts:



Assets



Cash
Savings account
Petty cash balance
Accounts receivable
Undeposited funds
Inventory assets
Prepaid insurance
Vehicles
Buildings



Liabilities



Company credit card
Accrued liabilities
Accounts payable
Payroll liabilities
Notes payable



Shareholders' equity



Common stock
Preferred stock
Retained earnings


  Account Identifiers  

To make it easy for readers to locate specific accounts or to know what they're looking at instantly, each COA typically contains identification codes, names, and brief descriptions for accounts.



This coding system is important because the COA can display many line items for each transaction in every primary account.



For example, a company may decide to code assets from 100 to 199, liabilities from 200 to 299, equity from 300 to 399, and so forth. Those could then be broken down further into, e.g., current assets (110-119) and current liabilities (210-219). The number of figures used depends on the size and complexity of a company and its transactions.



Many organizations structure their COAs so that expense information is separately compiled by department. Thus, the sales department, engineering department, and accounting department all have the same set of expense accounts. Examples of expense accounts include the cost of goods sold (COGS), depreciation expense, utility expense, and wages expense.


   Example  

Here's one example of a chart of accounts.












My Accounting Course


   Special Considerations  

COAs can differ and be tailored to reflect a company’s operations. However, they also must respect the guidelines set out by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).



Of crucial importance is that COAs are kept the same from year to year. Doing so ensures that accurate comparisons of the company’s finances can be made over time.




Why Is a Chart of Accounts Important?
It is a very important financial tool that organizes a lot of financial transactions in a way that is easy to access. Because transactions are displayed as line items, they can quickly be found and assessed. This is crucial for providing investors and other stakeholders a bird's-eye view of a company's financial data.




Is There a Single COA Format?
Not precisely. A company can use, create, or modify any format that it wishes. But experience has shown that the most common format organizes information by individual account and assigns each account a code and description. What's important is to use the same format over time for the consistency of period-to-period and year-to-year comparisons.




Is a Chart of Accounts Required?
No, but it's considered necessary by all kinds of companies seeking to categorize all of their transactions so that they can be referenced quickly and easily. 


   The Bottom Line  

A chart of accounts is a document that numbers and lists all the financial transactions that a company conducts in an accounting period. The information is usually arranged in categories that match those on the balance sheet and income statement.



The chart of accounts is a very useful tool for the access it provides to detailed financial information for individuals within companies and others, including investors and shareholders.
What Is a Chartered Accountant (CA)?  

A chartered accountant (CA) is a financial professional who is qualified to execute certain accounting procedures. It also refers to an accounting designation granted internationally to individuals aside from the United States. CAs work in four main areas, including applied finance, financial accounting and reporting, management accounting, and taxation. Their responsibilities may include filing taxes and auditing financial statements. This designation is the same as the certified public accountant (CPA) designation in the United States.





Key Takeaways

Chartered accountants are financial professionals who execute accounting procedures.The CA designation is granted to accounting professionals in many countries around the world, aside from the United States.The equivalent to the CA designation in the U.S. is a chartered public accountant.CAs typically focus on one of the following areas: audit and assurance, financial accounting and reporting, management accounting, and applied finance or taxation.Some chartered accountant institutions have reciprocity agreements with the U.S., whereby if they pass certain exams, they can work as CPAs.


   Duties and Responsibilities of Chartered Accountants (CAs)  

As noted above, a chartered accountant is a financial professional who works in the field of accounting. The designation held by CAs is the international equivalent of a CPA in the United States. CAs earn their designation based on the rules and regulations of the country in which they work.



Chartered accountants work both in the private and public sectors for organizations, businesses, governments, and individuals to help them meet their financial needs. They generally focus on one of four areas:



Applied finance
Financial accounting and reporting
Management accounting
Taxation



Depending on their area of focus, CAs may handle one aspect of a company's business, such as auditing financial statements. Others may oversee all of a company's accounting needs or they may work as freelancers who handle accounting matters for multiple clients. The CA designation proves CAs are qualified to file a business's tax return, audit financial statements and business practices, and offer advisory services to clients.






CAs and CPAs perform very similar tasks on a day-to-day basis.


   How to Become a Chartered Accountant  

Different countries impose different rules and regulations on the process of becoming a CA, which means there is no streamlined path to becoming designated. But CAs generally need a university degree in a related field, such as math, accounting, or finance. Special coursework may also be required to get certified.



For example, prospective accountants in New Zealand must complete a recognized academic program such as a three-year bachelor's degree or an accredited master's degree covering accounting and business topics. Candidates must then complete a practical experience program before they enroll in and complete a CA program. These programs train candidates in modern accounting methods.



In Canada, people who wish to become chartered professional accountants must complete an undergraduate degree with coursework in business and accounting areas. Then they can enroll in a professional education program for chartered professional accountants.






Chartered accountants claim to be the first accounting group to form a professional body, in 1854 in Scotland. There are now many organizations that CAs belong to across the world, including the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants.


   Job Outlook and Salary for CAs  

The job outlook for chartered accountants depends on the country in which you are employed. But there is generally a strong demand for CAs because of the skills they possess, including analytical and technical skills, communication skills, time management, and problem-solving.



In Canada, the median hourly salary for CAs was $38.46 in 2021. The national job market is characterized as good when taking provincial markets into account. The period between 2022 and 2031 is expected to see 88,000 new jobs in this field.



The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) in the United States combines accountants and auditors into a single category. The job outlook is expected to be 6% between 2021 and 2031, which is as fast as average. It's expected that there will be 81,800 additional jobs created during this 10-year period. The median annual salary was $77,250 in 2021.


   Chartered Accountant (CA) vs. Certified Public Accountant (CPA)  

The main difference between CAs and chartered public accountants is that the CPA is a designation used in the United States, while CA is used in many other countries. The CPA abbreviation can refer to different types of accounting professionals in different parts of the world. For example, in Canada, a CPA is a chartered professional accountant; in Australia, a CPA is a certified practicing accountant.



Members of Chartered Professional Accountants Canada, Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand, and Chartered Accountants Ireland have a reciprocity agreement with the United States. If these CA professionals pass a test, their qualifications can transfer to the United States, where they may work as CPAs.




What's the Difference Between a Chartered Accountant and a Certified Public Accountant?
The primary difference between chartered accountants and certified public accountants is that these designations are used in different parts of the world. But they do perform many of the same functions. Professionals with these designations work in the public and private sector for corporations, individuals, governments, and organizations. The are responsible for filing taxes, applied finance, auditing and financial reporting, and management accounting. In some countries, CAs can pass a test to work in the United States as CPAs.




How Do I Become a Chartered Accountant?
The requirements to become a chartered accountant depend on the country where you live. But in most cases, you must have at least an undergraduate degree in a related field, such as accounting or finance, and you must complete special coursework to get your designation or certification. Work experience also helps, so if you have the opportunity to do an internship, don't pass up the chance.




What Is the Job Outlook for Accountants and How Much Do They Earn?
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, accountants earned an average of $77,250 annually in 2021. The industry is expected to grow 6% between 2021 and 2031 with an additional 81,800 jobs during that time.


   The Bottom Line  

Demand for accountants is strong and steady, and there are a number of different options available for anyone who's looking for a career in the field, including chartered accountants. These professionals have special certifications in different countries and have similar job responsibilities as chartered public accountants in the U.S. You can find work as a CA in the public or private sector with businesses, governments, individual taxpayers, and/or organizations.
What Is a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA)?  

A chartered financial analyst (CFA) is a globally-recognized professional designation given by the CFA Institute, (formerly the AIMR (Association for Investment Management and Research)), that measures and certifies the competence and integrity of financial analysts. Candidates are required to pass three levels of exams covering areas, such as accounting, economics, ethics, money management, and security analysis.



From 1963 to the first half of 2022, more than two million candidates have sat for the Level I exam, with 291,500 candidates ultimately going on to pass the Level III exam, representing a weighted average completion rate of around 11%. In the last 10 years, the completion rate was slightly lower at 9.6%.






Historically the pass rates on each exam have been below 50%, making obtaining the CFA Charter one of the most difficult sets of financial certifications; a minimum of 300 hours of study is recommended for each exam.






The CFA charter is one of the most respected designations in finance and is widely considered to be the gold standard in the field of investment analysis. To become a charter holder, candidates must pass three difficult exams, have a bachelors degree, and have at least four years of relevant professional experience. Passing the CFA Program exams requires strong discipline and an extensive amount of studying. There are more than 160,000 CFA chartholders worldwide in 164 countries and regions.The designation is handed out by the CFA Institute, which has nine offices worldwide and 156 local member societies.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   The Basics of Becoming a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA)  

The CFA charter is one of the most respected designations in finance and is widely considered to be the gold standard in the field of investment analysis. The designation is handed out by the CFA Institute, which is a global nonprofit professional organization of more than 164,000 charter holders, portfolio managers, and other financial professionals in over 151 countries. Its stated mission is to promote and develop a high level of educational, ethical, and professional standards in the investment industry.



Before becoming a CFA charter holder, a candidate must meet one of the following educational requirements. The candidate must have four years of professional work experience, a bachelor's degree or be in the final year of the bachelor's degree program, or a combination of professional work experience and education totaling four years. For the undergraduate qualification, the bachelor's program must be completed before registering for the Level II exam. In addition to the educational requirement, the candidate must have an international passport, complete the assessment in English, meet the professional conduct admission criteria, and live in a participating country.



After meeting the enrollment requirements, the candidate must pass all three levels of the CFA program in sequential order. The candidate must then become a member of the CFA Institute and pay annual dues. Finally, they must sign off annually that they are following the CFA Institute code of ethics and standards of professional conduct. Failure to adhere to the ethics and standards is grounds for possible lifetime revocation of the CFA charter.



Passing the CFA Program exams requires strong discipline and an extensive amount of studying. The three exams can be taken once a year in June, with the exception of Level I, which can be taken in December as well.



Although the exams can be taken as many times as needed, each exam typically requires candidates to study in excess of 300 hours. Given the considerable amount of time that must be spent studying, many candidates are deterred from continuing the CFA Program after failing one of the levels. To receive a charter, each candidate must pass all three exams and have four years of qualified work experience in investment decision-making.



The exams are difficult. Only 43% passed the level exam in June 2018, which is similar to previous years. Having the right plan and the discipline to follow the plan are essential skills for passing all three exams. Notably, 2018 saw a record number of test takers, according to the CFA Institute. The Institute said more than 79,000 people sat its Level I test in June, an increase of 25% from 2017. The increase in test takers came primarily from Asia. The Institute now has test-taking centers in 43 countries around the world.


  Level I Exam  

The CFA Level I examination is administered twice per year in June and December. It focuses on analysis using the tools of the 10 topic areas of the Candidate Body of Knowledge. These areas are ethical and professional standards, quantitative methods, economics, financial reporting and analysis, corporate finance, equity investments, fixed income, derivatives, alternative investments, and portfolio management and wealth planning. The exam format is 240 multiple choice questions to be completed within six hours.





41%

The pass rate for the Level I exam over the past decade has averaged around 41%, with the February 2022 Level I exam seeing just 36% of test takers pass, allowing them to proceed to Level II.















CFA Level I Exam Topic Weights.


  Level II Exam  

The Level II exam is only offered once per year in June. It focuses on the valuation of various assets and emphasizes the application of investment tools and concepts in contextual situations. Exam questions referring to Financial Reporting and Analysis are typically based on International Financing Reporting Standards (IFRS). The exam format is 21 item sets (mini case studies) with six multiple choice questions for each set (120 questions total).





45%

The 10-year weighted average of CFA Level II pass rate is 45%. In August of 2021, only 29% of Level II test takers passed, allowing them to proceed to Level III.















CFA Level II Exam Topic Weights.


  Level III Exam  

The Level 3 exam is only offered once per year in June. It focuses on effective wealth planning and portfolio management by requiring the candidate to synthesize all the concepts and analytical methods in the entire curriculum. The exam format is between eight to 12 multi-part structured essay questions and ten multiple choice questions to be completed within six hours. The hand-written answers are graded by hand.





52%

The 10-year weighted average pass rate for Level III is the highest at 52%.















CFA Level III Exam Topic Weights.


   Limitations of the CFA Charter  

The CFA charter is widely respected, globally-recognized, and a difficult undertaking to accomplish. However, it is not a guaranteed path to riches and glory. Before taking the plunge, carefully consider several drawbacks to earning one. The CFA is not a quick-fix for an ailing career. If you're enrolling in the program to jump-start a stalling career, you may want to look at other reasons your career is not moving forward first. Perhaps before investing inordinate amounts of time and a substantial amount of money into building your pedigree, you might choose to improve your soft skills, such as work ethic and political suaveness.



Becoming a CFA charterholder is a huge investment in time—a recommended minimum of 300 hours per year over three years—or more if you fail and decide to re-take an exam.﻿﻿ You will likely sacrifice time with family and friends and the pursuit of hobbies you enjoy. And after committing all that time, there is no guarantee that you will earn the charter.



While the cost factor may not be a major consideration, it is worth pondering. A Level I candidate will pay a one-time program enrollment fee plus an exam registration fee. Level II and III candidates will pay a registration fee as well. There is also the cost of the books and study programs you'll have to buy. Altogether, you should expect to spend several thousand dollars each time you attempt the exams.﻿﻿




How Long Does It Take to Pass the CFA Exams?
The CFA exams are difficult and have a high failure rate. Each exam requires at least 300 hours of study, on average. Successful candidates take an average of four years to earn the designation.




How Much Do the CFA Exams Cost?
Each of the three levels of the CFA exam cost $1,000 (which is reduced to $700 if you register early). In addition, there is a one-time enrollment fee of $350. With early enrollment, you would end up paying a total of $2,450.




Are the CFA Exams Multiple Choice?
The CFA Level I exam is entirely multiple-choice, with 180 questions. The Level II exam consists entirely of item set questions. Level III consists of constructed response (essay) items during the morning session and item set questions during the afternoon. Constructed response items typically have several parts related to a case study that describes one or a series of investment challenges.




Are CFA Charterholders Paid More?
Industry reports indicate that CFA charterholders are paid more than those who have not completed the program. According to test prep provider 300 Hours, a CFA charterholder earns, on average, 53% more than a Level I candidate when controlling for years of work experience.
What Is a Chartered Retirement Planning Counselor (CRPC)?  

Chartered retirement planning counselor (CRPC) is a professional designation awarded by the College for Financial Planning to candidates who successfully complete its study program and pass a final examination.



A CRPC designation is seen as a boost for a financial planner's job opportunities, professional reputation, and pay prospects.



Successful applicants earn the right to use the CRPC designation with their names for two years. Every two years, CRPC professionals must complete 16 hours of continuing education and pay a small fee to continue using the designation.





Key Takeaways

A chartered retirement planning counselor has earned a professional designation awarded by the College for Financial Planning.The study program includes training in making a comprehensive assessment of an individual's financial needs before or after retirement, including sources of retirement income, personal savings, income taxes, estate planning, and more.Individuals who have earned the CRPC designation report a 9% increase in earnings, according to the college.


   The Role of a Chartered Retirement Planning Counselor (CRPC)  

CRPCs are not the same as certified financial planners (CFP). The CFP provides advisory services across all aspects of an individual's personal financial affairs while CRPCs are focused on retirement planning.



The CRPC program is developed with a focus on client-centered problem-solving. Applicants learn how to gain an in-depth knowledge of their clients' needs both before and after retirement.



The College for Financial Planning describes the program as helping financial planners and advisers define and create a "road map for retirement" for their clients. The study program to become a CRPC covers the entire retirement planning process, including meeting multiple financial objectives, sources of retirement income, personal savings, employer-sponsored retirement plans, income taxes, retirement cash flow, asset management, estate planning, and more.


  Salary Expectations of CRPC-Certified Planners  

Individuals who have earned the CRPC designation report a 9% increase in earnings, according to the college.



Graduates also can test out of two out of the six courses in the college's CFP Certified Professional Education Program. Completing the course can provide up to 45 hours of continuing education credits.


   Chartered Retirement Planning Counselor Program Details  

As of 2023, the cost of the CRPC training course is $1,350. Applicants who are currently employed in the financial services industry may be eligible for a discount.



Training is on an open enrollment basis, meaning individuals may enroll and start at any time. Live online and on-demand classes are offered.



Candidates must pass the program's final examination within one year of enrolling and take the exam within six months of enrolling. If unsuccessful, additional test attempts will cost $100 each.



For more information, see the College for Financial Planning's CRPC informational page. To enroll, follow this link.





Which Exam Is Toughest?

Of the 200 or so certification that individuals may earn in financial services, the toughest is said to be the chartered financial analyst designation from the CFA Institute. Most of those who sit for the exam already have a degree and a background in finance, accounting, economics, or business. The three-part exam tests knowledge of the fundamentals of investment tools, asset valuation, portfolio management, and wealth planning.


  CRPC Program Topics  

CRPC program course topics include:



Maximizing the Client Experience During the Retirement Planning ProcessPrinciples and Strategies When Investing for RetirementMaking the Most of Social Security Retirement BenefitsBridging the Income Gap: Identifying Other Sources of Retirement IncomeNavigating Health Care Options in RetirementMaking the Emotional and Financial Transition to RetirementDesigning Optimal Retirement Income StreamsAchieving Tax and Estate Planning Objectives in RetirementFiduciary, Ethical, and Regulatory Issues for Advisers



Once enrolled, CRPC candidates have access to the college's online student portal. This contains written study materials, streaming video lectures, interactive quizzes, and access to live classes when they are in session.




How Long Does It Take to Obtain a CRPC?
Most applicants can expect to spend between 90 and 135 hours on course-related activities before sitting for the exam, according to Kaplan Financial Education. Classes can be taken online, either live or on demand.




What Are the Average income and Job Prospects for a CRPC?
The average base salary for a person with CRPC certification is $72,000, according to Payscale. Note that many people are already working in the field when they decide to go for CRPC certification. The College for Financial Planning says those professionals report a 9% increase in their earnings after acquiring certification.




What Are the Various Professional Designations for Financial Professionals?
There are more than 200 designations available to financial professionals, but a few of the most common acronyms are enough for most of us:Certified financial planner (CEP) is a formal designation awarded by the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards to professionals who pass its initial exams and participate in its annual ongoing educational programs. Professionals who have this credential can advise individuals on a broad range of financial issues from budgeting to long-term savings and investing.Certified public accountant (CPA) is a license awarded by a state's Board of Accountancy after the applicant passes a rigorous examination. Not all accountants are CPAs, and CPAs often wind up in executive positions.Chartered financial analyst (CFA) is a professional designation given by the CFA Institute, which certifies the competence and integrity of financial analysts. CFAs are candidates for positions as portfolio managers or investment analysts.Chartered financial consultant (ChFC) has completed a study program offered by the American College of Financial Services. The designation indicates the person's ability to offer advice on the full range of financial issues. It is similar to the CFP designation, and opinions vary on which credential is better.




Is a CFA Better Than a CFP?
If you're headed for a career in the financial services industry, which is better depends on where you want to go.A chartered financial analyst (CFA) is skilled in investment analysis and portfolio management. They often work at big investment firms, mutual funds, or hedge funds, as they are qualified to research potential investments, recommend them, buy and sell them, and manage them.CFA certification is awarded by the CFA Institute to those who pass three six-hour exams renowned for their difficulty.A certified financial planner (CFP) has an in-depth knowledge of personal and family financial matters such as budgeting, investing, retirement planning, and insurance. The CFP is most often found working with individuals, helping them create a long-term financial plan and manage their money.CFP certification is awarded by the CFP Board based on a test that is taken in two sessions lasting three hours each. It has 170 questions on a wide range of personal financial planning topics.


   The Bottom Line  

The CRPC program was initially designed with the needs of baby boomers in mind. That is, the College of Financial Planning recognized the need for this generation to prepare for an increasingly complex set of concerns about retirement savings, estate planning, and taxes.



Now, it's Gen X's turn to worry about retirement. Or, if they're wise, the generations represented by letters at the end of the alphabet might be wise to look down the road.



Americans of whatever age may need some sound advice about retirement planning. A financial advisor with a CRPC designation has the right skill set.
What Is a Chattel Mortgage?  

A chattel mortgage is a loan to purchase movable personal property, such as a manufactured home or construction equipment. The property, or chattel, secures the loan, and the lender holds an ownership interest.



Chattel loans are commonly referred to as security agreements. The terms “personal property security,” “lien on personal property,” or even “movable hypothecation” are other synonyms for a chattel mortgage.





Key Takeaways

A chattel mortgage is a loan to purchase movable personal property, such as construction equipment.Mobile or manufactured homes, where the homeowner buys the residential unit but not the land it occupies, are financed with chattel mortgages.Chattel mortgages tend to carry higher interest rates and have fewer consumer protections than regular mortgages.


   Types of Chattel Mortgages  

Borrowers secure chattel mortgages to purchase the moveable property. These loans tend to have shorter terms than regular mortgages. If a borrower defaults on a chattel mortgage, the creditor or lender can take possession of the financed property and sell it to pay off the loan.


  Mobile/Manufactured Home Loans  

Chattel mortgages finance mobile or manufactured homes on leased land. Borrowers cannot opt for a traditional mortgage since the land does not belong to the homeowner. Instead, the mobile or manufactured home is considered “personal movable property” and security for a chattel mortgage. The financing arrangement remains in effect even if the mobile home is moved to a different location.



The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Housing Service all have programs to guarantee manufactured home loans issued by approved private lenders to eligible borrowers. HUD guarantees loans for manufactured homes without land through its Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Manufactured Home Loan Insurance program.


  Equipment Loans  

Businesses use chattel mortgages to purchase new or used heavy equipment for construction, farming, or other purposes. A chattel mortgage allows the buyer to use the equipment while the lender retains an ownership interest. The lender can repossess the equipment and sell it to pay off the loan balance if the buyer defaults.



The U.S. Small Business Administration provides low-cost financing for business-related equipment. Like other government agencies, it doesn’t issue loans but guarantees eligible loans issued by an approved list of commercial lenders. Its 504 Loans provide funding for long-term machinery and equipment purchases.






See our picks for Best Equipment Financing Companies in 2023.


   Chattel Mortgage vs. Traditional Mortgage  

A chattel mortgage differs from a traditional mortgage in that the lender owns the property until it the borrower has fully paid the loan. With a regular mortgage, the lender isn’t the owner but holds a lien on the property, allowing them to take possession of it in the event of a default. With a chattel mortgage, ownership transfers to the buyer at the end of the mortgage term, assuming all the payments have been made.



Chattel mortgages tend to carry higher interest rates and have fewer consumer protections than regular mortgages. They also have shorter terms, so monthly payments may be higher.


   Examples of Chattel Loans  

Vehicles, airplanes, boats, farm equipment, and manufactured homes are common examples of assets often financed with a chattel loan. Approximately 42% of the loans used to purchase manufactured homes are chattel loans, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).Chattel loans have specific rules, which vary according to the property and state or federal law.



In Florida, chattel home loans must be registered in a public registry so that third parties can be aware of them before entering into financing agreements with potential borrowers who want to put up the property as security for another loan. For security agreements associated with aircraft, chattel mortgages must be recorded with the Aircraft Registration Branch of the Federal Aviation Administration.






Mortgages on personal property like chattel loans typically carry higher interest rates than traditional mortgages and come with shorter terms.








Where Can Borrowers Get a Chattel Loan?
Chattel loans are offered in person at lending institutions and through online lenders, some of which specialize in a particular type of property, such as mobile homes, aircraft, or construction equipment.




How Much Down Payment Is Required for a Chattel Loan?
That can depend on the loan, the lender, and your credit score. With the FHA’s Title I loans, for example, borrowers with a credit score above 500 are required to make at least a 5% down payment, while those with lower scores must put down at least 10%.




Is Interest on a Chattel Mortgage Tax Deductible?
The interest paid on a chattel mortgage may be deductible, just like interest paid on a conventional mortgage. When financing a manufactured or modular home fixed to the ground, borrowers may also be able to take advantage of property tax deductions.


   The Bottom Line  

A chattel mortgage is a loan to purchase movable personal property, such as construction equipment or mobile homes. Chattel mortgages often carry higher interest rates and have fewer consumer protections than traditional mortgages. If a borrower defaults on a chattel mortgage, the lender can repossess the property or equipment.
What Is Cheapest to Deliver?  

The term cheapest to deliver (CTD) refers to the cheapest security delivered in a futures contract to a long position to satisfy the contract specifications. It is relevant only for contracts that allow a variety of slightly different securities to be delivered.



This is common in Treasury bond futures contracts, which typically specify that any treasury bond can be delivered so long as it is within a certain maturity range and has a certain coupon rate. The coupon rate is the rate of interest a bond issuer pays for the entire term of the security.





Key Takeaways

Cheapest to deliver is the cheapest security that can be delivered in a futures contract to a long position to satisfy the contract specifications.It is common in Treasury bond futures contracts.Determining the cheapest to deliver security is important for the short position because there is a difference between a security's market price and the conversion factor used to determine its value.


   Understanding Cheapest to Deliver (CTD)  

A futures contract enters the buyer into an obligation to purchase a specific underlying financial instrument's specific quantity. The seller must deliver the underlying security on a date agreed upon by both parties. In cases where multiple financial instruments can satisfy the contract based on the fact that a particular grade was not specified, the seller who holds the short position can identify which instrument will be the cheapest to deliver.



Remember, a trader generally takes a short position—or a short—when they sell a financial asset with the intention of repurchasing it at a lower price later on. Traders generally take short positions when they believe an asset's price will drop in the near future. Futures markets allow traders to take short positions at any time.



Determining the cheapest to deliver security is important for the short position because there is often a disparity between a security's market price and the conversion factor used to determine the value of the security being delivered. This makes it advantageous for the seller to pick specific security to deliver over another. Since it is assumed that the short position provides the cheapest to deliver security, the market pricing of futures contracts is generally based on the cheapest to deliver security.






There is a general assumption that the short position provides the cheapest to deliver security.


   Special Considerations  

Selecting the cheapest to deliver provides the investor in the short position the ability to maximize their return—or profit—on the chosen bond. The calculation to determine the cheapest to deliver is:



CTD = Current Bond Price – Settlement Price x Conversion Factor



The current bond price is determined based on the current market price with any interest due to a total. Additionally, the calculations are more commonly based on the net amount earned from the transaction, also known as the implied repo rate. This is the rate of return that a trader can earn when they sell a bond or futures contract and buy the same asset at the market price with borrowed funds at the same time. Higher implied repo rates result in assets that are cheaper to deliver overall.



Set by the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), the conversion factor is required to adjust for the varying grades that may be under consideration and is designed to limit certain advantages that may exist when selecting between multiple options. The conversion factors are adjusted as necessary to provide the most useful metric when using the information for calculations.
What Is a Check?  

A check is a written, dated, and signed draft that directs a bank to pay a specific sum of money to the bearer. The person or entity writing the check is known as the payor or drawer, while the person to whom the check is written is the payee. The drawee, on the other hand, is the bank on which the check is drawn.





Key Takeaways

A check is a written, dated, and signed draft that directs a bank to pay a specific sum of money to the bearer. Checks instruct a financial institution to transfer funds from the payor’s account to the payee or that person's account. Check features include the date, the payee line, the amount of the check, the payor’s endorsement, and a memo line.Types of checks include certified checks, cashier’s checks, and payroll checks, also called paychecks.In some countries, such as Canada and England, the spelling used is “cheque.”


   How Checks Work  

A check is a bill of exchange or document that guarantees a certain amount of money. It is printed for the drawing bank to provide to an account holder (the payor) to use. The payor writes the check and gives it to the payee, who then takes it to their bank for cash or to deposit into an account.



Checks essentially provide a way to instruct the bank to transfer funds from the payor’s account to the payee or the payee’s account.



The use of checks allows two or more parties to make a monetary transaction without using physical currency. Instead, the amount for which the check is written is a substitute for physical currency of the same amount.



Checks are generally written against a checking account, but they can also be used to move funds from a savings or other type of account.



Checks can be used to make bill payments, as gifts, or to transfer sums between two people or entities. They are generally seen as a more secure way of transferring money than cash, especially with large sums. If a check is lost or stolen, a third party is not able to cash it, as the payee is the only one who can negotiate the check.






Modern financial tools that work similarly to checks in that they provide a substitute for physical currency include: debit and credit cards, money orders, wire transfers, and internet banking.


   History of Checks  

Checks have been in existence in one form or another since ancient times. Many people believe a type of check was used among the ancient Romans.



Modern checks, as we know them today, became popular in the 20th century. Check usage surged in the 1950s as the check process became automated and machines were able to sort and clear checks. Check cards, first created in the 1960s, were the precursors to today’s debit cards.



Credit and debit cards—and other forms of electronic payment—have since overshadowed checks as the dominant means of paying for most goods and services. Checks are now somewhat uncommon but still occasionally used.


   Features of a Check  

While not all checks look alike, they generally share the same key features. The name and contact information of the person writing the check is located at the top left. The name of the bank that holds the drawer’s account appears on the check as well.



There are a number of lines that need to be filled in by the payor:



The date must be written on the line in the top right corner of the check.The payee’s name goes on the first line in the center of the check. This is indicated by the phrase "Pay to the Order Of."The amount of the check in a dollar figure is filled out in the box next to the payee’s name.The amount written out in words goes on the line below the payee’s name.The payor signs the check on the line at the bottom right corner of the check. The check must be signed to be considered valid.



There is also a memo line in the bottom left corner of the check. The payor may use it to make notes, such as a reference number, an account number, or any particular reason for writing the check.



A series of coded numbers is found along the bottom edge of the check, directly underneath the memo line and extending toward the payor’s signature line. These numbers are:



the bank’s routing number
the payor’s account number
the check number



In certain countries, such as Canada, the routing number is replaced with an institution number—which represents the bank’s identifying code—and the transit or branch number where the account is held.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



The back of the check has an endorsement line for the payee’s signature when they are cashing or depositing the check. The receiving bank often stamps the back with a deposit stamp at the time it is deposited or cashed, after which it goes for clearing. Once the drawing bank receives the check, it is stamped again and filed. In some cases the check is sent back to the payor.






The oldest surviving American checkbook, from the Bank of New York, dates to the 1790s.


   Types of Checks  

In addition to the standard personal check, types of checks include certified checks, cashier's checks, and payroll checks, which are all used for different purposes.


  Certified Check  

A certified check verifies that the drawer’s account has enough funds to honor the amount of the check. In other words, the check is guaranteed not to bounce. To certify a check, it must be presented at the bank on which it is drawn, at which time the bank will ascertain its authenticity with the payor.


  Cashier's Check  

A cashier’s check is guaranteed by the banking institution and signed by a bank cashier, which means the bank is responsible for the funds. This type of check is often required for large transactions, such as buying a car or house.


  Payroll Check  

Another type is a payroll check, or paycheck, which an employer issues to compensate an employee for their work. In recent years, physical paychecks have given way to direct deposit systems and other forms of electronic transfer.


   Bounced Checks  

When someone writes a check for an amount larger than what is held in their checking account, the check cannot be negotiated. This is referred to as a bounced check.



The check bounces because it cannot be processed, as there are insufficient or non-sufficient funds (NSF) in the account (the two terms are interchangeable). A bounced check usually results in a penalty fee for the payor. In some cases, the payee is also charged a fee.



Other checking account fees can include a monthly service fee, a per-check fee (a charge for every check you write), a check printing fee, and returned deposit item fee. A returned deposit item fee is a fee charged when you deposit a check in your account that bounces.




Do Banks Forgive Bounced Checks?
Banks have different policies on bounced checks. Oftentimes, a bank charges overdraft fees or nonsufficient funds fees on bounced checks. Some banks may provide a grace period, such as 24 hours, in which time you can deposit funds to avoid the overdraft fees.




Do Cashier's Checks Clear Immediately?
Typically, funds from a deposited cashier's check must be available the next business day. However, a bank may place a hold on some of those funds if the check exceeds $5,252. It can also place a hold on the entire amount if it has a reason to believe the check will not clear.




What Is the Difference Between a Certified and Cashier's Check?
Both a certified check and a cashier's check are considered more secure checks than personal checks. Cashier's checks are signed by banks and drawn against a bank's account, while certified checks are signed by an individual and drawn against a personal account. Both checks are guaranteed by the bank, which makes them more secure.


   The Bottom Line  

Checks are a useful financial tool that makes payments and money transfers more convenient and potentially safer than cash. Different checks are designed for different purposes and for different risk levels. Learning how to use a check correctly can provide you with a secure payment method that you may need or prefer to use in certain circumstances.
What Is a Checking Account?  

A checking account is a deposit account that allows you to easily make withdrawals, deposits, and fund transfers. Also called demand accounts or transactional accounts, checking accounts can be accessed using checks, automated teller machines (ATMs), and electronic debits, among other methods. They are often used to keep money for short-term expenses.





Key Takeaways

A checking account is a deposit account that allows you to easily make deposits and withdrawals.Checking accounts typically don’t provide much, if any, interest.Checking accounts can have fees, such as overdraft fees.Money in a checking account is typically insured for up to $250,000 by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC).Checking accounts can provide an ideal place to keep your funds for short-term or everyday spending.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   How Checking Accounts Work  

Setting up a checking account at a bank or credit union is generally easy. You can apply online, or visit a bank branch, and often get a checking account immediately. You will just need to provide basic personal information such as your Social Security number and identification.



Then, you can deposit funds into the account with cash or a check. (Some checking accounts charge a fee if you do not meet their minimum deposit amount.) You will typically receive a debit card. After that, you can deposit and withdraw your money as you like using ATMs, checks, or in-person transactions. You can also use your checking account to make balance transfers or pay bills online.



Funds in a checking account at a bank are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) up to $250,000 per individual depositor, per insured bank. That means if you have less than that amount and your bank fails, your money will be safe. Any amount over the FDIC limit is at risk. If you're opening a checking account at a credit union, your funds will get that same kind of protection by the National Credit Union Association.


  Types of Checking Accounts  

Checking accounts come in several types designed for different purposes. For example, a commercial checking account is used by businesses. The business’ officers, managers, or employees will have authority to use the account for business expenses.



Some banks offer student checking accounts for college students with perks like not having maintenance or minimum balance fees as the students learn how to manage finances.






A joint checking account is one that allows two or more people, often spouses, can write checks and make deposits.



Other types of checking accounts include second chance accounts, which are accounts designed for people who don't qualify for a traditional checking account. They often have more restrictions and charge a fee. They also typically do not provide overdraft protection.


   Checking Accounts and Banks  

Banks make money through the fees on checking accounts. They can also use checking accounts to attract consumers who may then be more likely to take out personal loans, mortgages, and certificates of deposit (CDs) with that bank.



Aggregate balances of money held in checking accounts are used to calculate the M1 and M2 money supply.


   Checking Accounts and Overdrafts  

If you make a purchase for more than you have in your checking account, your bank may cover the difference through overdraft protection, then charge you a fee.



For example, if you have a $50 account balance, and you make purchases for $70 using your debit card, you will be allowed to complete the purchase transaction. However, you may be charged a $20 overdraft fee for that purchase or any purchases after that until you make a deposit to bring your account balance positive.






If your account remains overdrawn, your bank also may charge you daily interest.



You can avoid overdraft charges by choosing a checking account with no overdraft fees. You can also set up balance alerts to notify you when your checking account balance is low. Or, some banks allow you to link another account to your checking account, so the funds from the second account can be used to cover any overdrafts.


   Checking Account Services  
  Direct Deposit  

Direct deposit allows a company, such as your employer, to electronically deposit money like your paycheck into your bank account. The funds are then immediately available to you.



Banks also benefit from direct deposits because it gives them a steady flow of income to then use to lend to other customers. So, many banks will provide benefits like free checking if you set up direct deposit for your account.


  Wire Transfer  

A wire transfer is an electronic funds transfer that moves money from one account directly into another account. It allows money to be moved securely without the need to exchange cash.


  ATMs  

ATMs allow you to access cash any time. They are machines located at branches or in other public locations such as malls, airports, or convenience stores. Make sure you fully understand the fees your bank charges for using ATMs that are out of their network.


  Debit Cards  

Debit cards provide a convenient way to make purchases. They are often be accepted as a form of payment where credit cards are accepted. Debits cards draw from the funds in your bank account and not on a line of credit, so you will not be charged interest on purchases.



You can also use a debit card at an ATM to withdraw cash. Many banks offer zero-liability fraud protection for debit cards to help protect against identity theft if a card is lost or stolen.


   Checking Accounts and Interest  

Checking accounts usually have low interest compared to savings accounts, if they have any interest at all.



Some checking accounts are considered "high yield," and they pay higher interest rates than the average checking account. Interest rates on high yield checking accounts may be three to six times higher than the rates that a regular checking account pays—if it pays any interest at all.






Accounts that pay higher interest may have requirements that you must meet to get the higher rate. For example, you may have to maintain a high balance or make a large number of debit card transactions every month.


   Checking Accounts and Credit Scores  

Most basic checking account activities—such as making deposits and withdrawals and writing checks—do not have an impact on your credit score. Unlike credit cards, closing checking accounts in good standing also will not affect your credit history.



Overdrafts on checking accounts being overdrawn do not appear on your credit report as long as you repay the money you overspent. If you do not pay back a line of credit extended to you for an overdraft, your bank could send the items to collections and that could negatively impact your credit score.



Keep in mind that some banks do a soft inquiry, or pull, of your credit report to find out if you have a decent track record of handling money before they offer you a checking account. Soft pulls have no impact on your credit score, although they may appear on your credit report.


   Being Denied a Checking Account  

Banks and credit unions usually look at your checking account report before they will allow you to open a new account. If they see you have a history of writing bad checks, they could deny you a checking account. You may also be denied a checking account if you cannot provide the proper identification.



Chronically bouncing checks, not paying overdraft fees, committing fraud, or having an account “closed for cause” can all result in a bank or credit union denying you a new account.






Federal law allows you to request a free checking account report once per year from each of the nationwide agencies, which include Certegy, ChexSystems, Early Warning Services, and Telecheck. You have the right to dispute any inaccurate information.



If a bank has closed your checking account or you can't qualify for a new one, you could turn to second-chance checking accounts offered by many banks and credit unions. After you've maintained the account in good standing for a certain period of time, you may qualify for a traditional checking account.




Is a Debit Card a Check Card?
A debit card and a check card are considered the same thing. This card allows you to make transactions using funds in your checking account. You can also use the card to make cash withdrawals from automated teller machines (ATMs).




What Are the Different Types of Checking Accounts?
Different types of checking accounts include regular (basic) checking accounts, premium checking accounts, student checking accounts, senior checking accounts, interest-bearing accounts, business checking accounts, and rewards checking accounts.




What Is the Difference Between a Checking Account and a Savings Account?
A checking account is meant to be used for frequent deposits and withdrawals, and routine spending. A savings account is designed for holding money for longer-term needs and often offers higher interest rates than a checking account. Many savings accounts have a maximum number of withdrawals you can make per month, whereas a checking account typically has limitless withdrawals.


   The Bottom Line  

A checking account, as a highly liquid account that has FDIC protection, can be a great place to keep your money for short-term purchases. If you are considering opening a checking account, compare the terms of checking accounts from several different banks. Make sure you fully understand the fees, benefits, and interest rates associated with them.
What Are Checks and Balances?  

Checks and balances are various procedures set in place to reduce mistakes, prevent improper behavior, or decrease the risk of centralization of power. Checks and balances usually ensure that no one person or department has absolute control over decisions, clearly define the assigned duties, and force cooperation in completing tasks.



The term is most commonly used in the context of government but also refers to limiting power in businesses and organizations.





Key Takeaways

Checks and balances refer to the separation of power to avoid one entity or body wielding too much power.Checks and balances can help reduce mistakes and prevent improper behavior in organizations.Checks and balances are most commonly used in the context of government, for example in the U.S. government through the establishment of the executive branch, the legislative branch, and the judicial branch.Checks and balances are important in businesses and other organizations where one individual can make decisions that affect operations, such as the CEO or a majority shareholder.The idea of checks and balances dates back as far as the Roman empire.


   How Checks and Balances Work  

The U.S. government exercises checks and balances through its three branches: the legislative, executive, and judicial branches. It operates as a constitutionally limited government and is bound to the principles and actions that are authorized by the federal—and corresponding state—constitution.



Checks and balances are important in businesses and other organizations where one individual can make decisions that affect operations. Checks and balances can cost more money and decrease efficiency but can be critical in helping to identify internal and external theft.



By separating the duties of various employees into clearly defined roles, businesses and organizations are better able to ensure that rogue employees or executives cannot harm a business without the intervention of other employees. Having these types of internal controls in a business can help improve operational efficiency.



Internal control systems of publicly listed businesses in the U.S. use checks and balances. This is a requirement of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. The directors of such businesses have a legal obligation to ensure a proper system of internal control that includes checks and balances.


   Checks and Balances in the World Economy  

The United Nations has six internal institutions: the International Court of Justice, the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council, the Trusteeship Council, the UN Secretariat, and the Security Council.



Each of these institutions has different responsibilities, such as maintaining international peace, policy review and recommendations on economic, social, and environmental issues, and an international court.



The individuals working in these bodies and the bodies themselves cannot influence each other. Given that the UN has a wide global influence, impacting most nations around the world, it's critical that different directives are handled by different groups so as to avoid a concentration of power.






The UN's voting system and veto power policy allow individual countries to check the power of other countries.


   Example of Checks and Balances  

The U.S. Constitution provides checks and balances for the U.S. government through the separation of powers between its three branches: the legislative branch, the executive branch, and the judicial branch. The Constitution gives specific abilities to each one of these three branches to ensure that no one section of the government could obtain excessive unchecked power.



Checks and balances are practiced by the U.S. government in the following ways. First, the legislative branch is the part of the government that makes laws, but the executive branch gives veto power to the president, allowing the president to keep the legislative branch in check.



In addition, the judicial branch, the part of the government that interprets the laws put into effect by the legislative branch, can deem certain laws unconstitutional making them void.



Moreover, while the president has veto power, the legislative branch can overturn a president's veto with a two-thirds "supermajority" vote by both houses of Congress. This ensures that the president cannot use his power for personal gain. The executive branch can also declare executive orders, effectively proclaiming how certain laws should be enforced, but the judicial branch can deem these orders to be unconstitutional.


  Executive Orders  

Executive orders are often declared for the benefit of the country and are rarely considered unconstitutional. They are enacted solely by the president as head of the executive branch of government.



Still, executive orders can be reversed by subsequent administrations. For example, when President Joe Biden first took office in January of 2021, he signed one of his first executive orders, #13986 entitled, Ensuring a Lawful and Accurate Enumeration and Apportionment Pursuant to the Decennial Census. This order effectively reversed policies set forth by a prior executive order enacted by President Donald Trump that would have excluded non-citizens from the U.S. Census count.




What Is the Definition of Checks and Balances in the U.S. Government?
In the U.S. government, checks and balances refers to the separation of power in the government, which is ensured through the establishment of three different branches: the executive branch, the judicial branch, and the legislative branch. All hold different powers and, therefore, can check the power of the other branches.




Who Created the Idea of Checks and Balances?
The idea of checks and balances, which is a separation of power, was first proposed by the Greek statesman, Polybius, in reference to the government of Ancient Rome. During the Age of Enlightenment, French philosopher, Baron de Montesquieu, discussed in his work, The Spirit of Laws, the need for the separation of powers to prevent despotism.




How Does the System of Checks and Balances Work in the World Economy?
Checks and balances in the world economy can be seen through the variety of global organizations that seek to check the power of different nations, organizations, and individuals. Groups such as NATO, the UN, the World Trade Organization (WTO), the International Criminal Court (ICC), all seek to check the power of other nations and institutions.


   The Bottom Line  

Without checks and balances, one branch of government can grow too powerful and problematic. In the U.S., three branches of the federal government effectively have a set of checks and balances: the legislative branch as Congress (the House of Representatives and the Senate), the Supreme Court as the judicial branch, and the Office of the President as the Executive Branch. Other world governments and international bodies like the United Nations also have checks and balances in place.
What Is a Chi-Square Statistic?  

A chi-square (χ2) statistic is a test that measures how a model compares to actual observed data. The data used in calculating a chi-square statistic must be random, raw, mutually exclusive, drawn from independent variables, and drawn from a large enough sample. For example, the results of tossing a fair coin meet these criteria.



Chi-square tests are often used to test hypotheses. The chi-square statistic compares the size of any discrepancies between the expected results and the actual results, given the size of the sample and the number of variables in the relationship.



For these tests, degrees of freedom are used to determine if a certain null hypothesis can be rejected based on the total number of variables and samples within the experiment. As with any statistic, the larger the sample size, the more reliable the results.





Key Takeaways

A chi-square (χ2) statistic is a measure of the difference between the observed and expected frequencies of the outcomes of a set of events or variables.Chi-square is useful for analyzing such differences in categorical variables, especially those nominal in nature.χ2 depends on the size of the difference between actual and observed values, the degrees of freedom, and the sample size.χ2 can be used to test whether two variables are related or independent from each other.It can also be used to test the goodness of fit between an observed distribution and a theoretical distribution of frequencies.


   The Formula for Chi-Square Is  

﻿
















χ


c


2



=


∑




(



O


i



−



E


i




)


2






E


i



















where:
















c


=


Degrees of freedom
















O


=


Observed value(s)








\begin{aligned}&\chi^2_c = \sum \frac{(O_i - E_i)^2}{E_i} \\&\textbf{where:}\\&c=\text{Degrees of freedom}\\&O=\text{Observed value(s)}\\&E=\text{Expected value(s)}\end{aligned}


​χc2​=∑Ei​(Oi​−Ei​)2​where:c=Degrees of freedomO=Observed value(s)​﻿


   What Does a Chi-Square Statistic Tell You?  

There are two main kinds of chi-square tests: the test of independence, which asks a question of relationship, such as, "Is there a relationship between student gender and course choice?"; and the goodness-of-fit test, which asks something like "How well does the coin in my hand match a theoretically fair coin?"






Chi-square analysis is applied to categorical variables and is especially useful when those variables are nominal (where order doesn't matter, like marital status or gender).


  Independence  

When considering student gender and course choice, a χ2 test for independence could be used. To do this test, the researcher would collect data on the two chosen variables (gender and courses picked) and then compare the frequencies at which male and female students select among the offered classes using the formula given above and a χ2 statistical table.



If there is no relationship between gender and course selection (that is if they are independent), then the actual frequencies at which male and female students select each offered course should be expected to be approximately equal, or conversely, the proportion of male and female students in any selected course should be approximately equal to the proportion of male and female students in the sample.



A χ2 test for independence can tell us how likely it is that random chance can explain any observed difference between the actual frequencies in the data and these theoretical expectations.


  Goodness-of-Fit  

χ2 provides a way to test how well a sample of data matches the (known or assumed) characteristics of the larger population that the sample is intended to represent. This is known as goodness of fit.



If the sample data do not fit the expected properties of the population that we are interested in, then we would not want to use this sample to draw conclusions about the larger population.


   An Example  

For example, consider an imaginary coin with exactly a 50/50 chance of landing heads or tails and a real coin that you toss 100 times. If this coin is fair, then it will also have an equal probability of landing on either side, and the expected result of tossing the coin 100 times is that heads will come up 50 times and tails will come up 50 times.



In this case, χ2 can tell us how well the actual results of 100 coin flips compare to the theoretical model that a fair coin will give 50/50 results. The actual toss could come up 50/50, or 60/40, or even 90/10. The farther away the actual results of the 100 tosses are from 50/50, the less good the fit of this set of tosses is to the theoretical expectation of 50/50, and the more likely we might conclude that this coin is not actually a fair coin.


   When to Use a Chi-Square Test  

A chi-square test is used to help determine if observed results are in line with expected results and to rule out that observations are due to chance.



A chi-square test is appropriate for this when the data being analyzed are from a random sample, and when the variable in question is a categorical variable. A categorical variable is one that consists of selections such as type of car, race, educational attainment, male or female, or how much somebody likes a political candidate (from very much to very little).



These types of data are often collected via survey responses or questionnaires. Therefore, chi-square analysis is often most useful in analyzing this type of data.


   How to Perform a Chi-Square Test  

These are the basic steps whether you are performing a goodness of fit test or a test of independence:



Create a table of the observed and expected frequencies;Use the formula to calculate the chi-square value;Find the critical chi-square value using a chi-square value table or statistical software;Determine whether the chi-square value or the critical value is the larger of the two;Reject or accept the null hypothesis.


   Limitations of the Chi-Square Test  

The chi-square test is sensitive to sample size. Relationships may appear to be significant when they aren't simply because a very large sample is used.



In addition, the chi-square test cannot establish whether one variable has a causal relationship with another. It can only establish whether two variables are related.




What Is a Chi-square Test Used for?
Chi-square is a statistical test used to examine the differences between categorical variables from a random sample in order to judge the goodness of fit between expected and observed results. 




Who Uses Chi-Square Analysis?
Since chi-square applies to categorical variables, it is most used by researchers who are studying survey response data. This type of research can range from demography to consumer and marketing research to political science and economics.




Is Chi-Square Analysis Used When the Independent Variable Is Nominal or Ordinal?
A nominal variable is a categorical variable that differs by quality, but whose numerical order could be irrelevant. For instance, asking somebody their favorite color would produce a nominal variable. Asking somebody's age, on the other hand, would produce an ordinal set of data. Chi-square can be best applied to nominal data.


   The Bottom Line  

There are two types of chi-square tests: the test of independence and the test of goodness of fit. Both are used to determine the validity of a hypothesis or an assumption. The result is a piece of evidence that can be used to make a decision. For example:



In a test of independence, a company may want to evaluate whether its new product, an herbal supplement that promises to give people an energy boost, is reaching the people who are most likely to be interested. It is being advertised on websites related to sports and fitness, on the assumption that active and health-conscious people are most likely to buy it. It does an extensive poll that is intended to evaluate interest in the product by demographic group. The poll suggests no correlation between interest in this product and the most health-conscious people.



In a test of goodness of fit, a marketing professional is considering launching a new product that the company believes will be irresistible to women over 45. The company has conducted product testing panels of 500 potential buyers of the product. The marketing professional has information about the age and gender of the test panels, This allows the construction of a chi-square test showing the distribution by age and gender of the people who said they would buy the product. The result will show whether or not the likeliest buyer is a woman over 45. If the test shows that men over 45 or women between 18 and 44 are just as likely to buy the product, the marketing professional will revise the advertising, promotion, and placement of the product to appeal to this wider group of customers.
What Is a Chief Executive Officer (CEO)?  

A chief executive officer (CEO) is the highest-ranking executive in a company. Broadly speaking, a chief executive officer’s primary responsibilities include making major corporate decisions, managing the overall operations and resources of a company, acting as the main point of communication between the board of directors and corporate operations. In many cases, the chief executive officer serves as the public face of the company.



The CEO is elected by the board and its shareholders. They report to the chair and the board, who are appointed by shareholders.





Key Takeaways

The chief executive officer (CEO) is the highest-ranking person in a company.While every company differs, CEOs are often responsible for expanding the company, driving profitability, and in the case of public companies, improving share prices. CEOs manage the overall operations of a company.Across many companies, CEOs are elected by the board of directors.CEOs of the 350 largest companies in America earn on average $24 million, or 351 times more than an average employee.Studies suggest that 45% of company performance is influenced by the CEO, while others show that they affect 15% of the variance in profitability. 












Xiaojie Liu / Investopedia


   CEO's Roles and Responsibilities  

A CEO's role varies from one company to another depending on the company's size, culture, and corporate structure. In large corporations, CEOs typically deal only with very high-level strategic decisions and those that direct the company's overall growth. For example, CEOs may work on strategy, organization, and culture. Specifically, they may look at how capital is allocated across the firm, or how to build teams to succeed. 



In smaller companies, CEOs often are more hands-on and involved with day-to-day functions. 



One study from Harvard Business review analyzed how CEOs spend their time. They found that 72% of CEOs' time was spent in meetings versus 28% alone. Moreover, 25% was spent on relationships, 25% on business unit review and functional reviews, 21% on strategy, and 16% on culture and organization. Some food for thought: the study showed that just 1% of time was spent on crisis management and 3% was allocated to customer relations.



Not only that, CEOs can set the tone, vision, and sometimes the culture of their organizations. 


  Examples of a CEO's Tasks  

A Chief Executive Officer's roles and responsibilities will vastly vary between companies, industries, and organization sizes. In general, a CEO may be expected to take on the following tasks:



Oversee the strategic direction of an organization. Lower-level managers are often more engaged in the day-to-day operating activities of a company. A CEO usually synthesizes these results and decides on the long-term plans of a company.
Implement changes and proposed plans. After crafting the long-term vision, a CEO usually looks to themselves and other executive leadership to begin implementing those plans. Changes are often directly implemented by operational managers, but it is ultimately up to the CEO to ensure the long-term plans are being followed through.
Engage in media obligations and public relations. A CEO is often the face of the company, and this includes being involved in media relations. A CEO may speak at conferences, address the public on notable changes to the company, or participate in community events.
Interact with other leadership executives. As companies grow more diverse, it is vital to the success of a company to have a suite of executives that a CEO can rely on. Instead of directly overseeing every aspect of a company, a CEO often relies on other leaders to manage their own realm, then engages with them to get a high-level understanding of how things are going.
Maintain accountability with the board. A Board of Directors oversees the entire company's performance and holds a CEO accountable. A CEO often reports to the board, delivers updates on strategic plans, and gets feedback from the board regarding the overall direction of the company.
Monitor company performance. A CEO is ultimately responsible for the financial performance of a company. A CEO may rely on financial or non-financial metrics to track how things are going. They usually make reporting requests from their direct employees to get a quick sense of how each area in the company is performing and what strategic maneuvers should be taken.
Setting precedence for the working culture and environment. A CEO is responsible for setting the tone at the top and creating the work environment they believe is best to drive success. Employees working under a CEO often look to the executive to create and maintain the culture of the organization.


   CEO Pay and Notoriety  

On average, CEOs of the 350 largest companies in the U.S. have earned $24 million in annual salaries. To look at it another way, that's 351 times the salary of a worker. Since the 1970s, CEO pay is estimated to have skyrocketed over 1,300%. By contrast, worker compensation has grown 18%. 



Because of their frequent dealings with the public, sometimes the chief executive officers of large corporations achieve fame. As of Aug. 11, 2023, Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla (TSLA), has over 152 million followers on X (formerly Twitter). Similarly, Steve Jobs, founder and CEO of Apple (AAPL), became such a global icon that, following his death in 2011, an explosion of both cinematic and documentary films about him emerged.






As is the case with many vague job titles, the leader of an organization may not be titled CEO. Though they may assume all of the responsibilities below, their title may be different.


   Related Chief Positions  

Corporate America houses numerous titles of senior executives that begin with the letter C, for "chief." This group of top senior staffers has come to be called C-suite, or C-level in the corporate vernacular.



It's worth noting that for small organizations or those that are still in the startup or growth phases, for example, the CEO may also be serving as the CFO and the chief operating officer (COO), and so on. This can lead to a lack of clarity, not to mention an overworked executive. Assigning multiple titles to a single executive-level individual can wreak havoc on a business's continuity and ultimately may affect its long-term profitability negatively. In short, when it comes to executive-level positions within an organization, assigned titles and the functions associated with each can become muddled quickly. 


  The Difference Between CEO and COB  

The CEO directs the operational aspects of a company. Comparatively, the board of directors—led by the chair of the board (COB)—oversees the company as a whole. While the chair of the board does not have the power to overrule the board, the board has the power to overrule the CEO's decisions. Effectively, the chair is considered a peer with the other board members. In some cases, the CEO and the chair of the board can be the same person, but many companies split these roles between two people because this gives better governance and oversight of the work of the CEO.


  The Difference Between CEO and CFO  

The CFO is the chief financial officer of a company. While CEOs manage general operations, CFOs focus specifically on financial matters. A CFO analyzes a company's financial strengths and makes recommendations to improve financial weaknesses. The CFO also tracks cash flow and oversees a company's financial planning, such as investments and capital structures. Like CEOs, the CFO seeks to deliver returns to shareholders through focusing on financial discipline and driving margin and revenue growth.


  The Difference Between CEO and COO  

Often, the chief operating officer (COO) is ranked second highest after the CEO. As the head of human resources, their responsibilities fall on recruitment, legal, payroll, and training along with administrative duties.


  The Difference Between CEO and Other Leadership Titles  

There are many other leadership titles, some of which may or may not overlap with a CEO. Other common titles include:



Founder: A founder of a company is an individual that started the company. They helped bring the company into existence, creating the bylaws and articles of incorporation, organization structure, and overall strategy from the first day. A founder can be a title of an individual currently with a company or a title of an individual that started the company but has since left. If the CEO helped start the company, they can also be considered a founder and may be referred to as both simultaneously (i.e., founder/CEO).
Chairperson: A chairperson (often called chair, chairman, or chairwoman) is a presiding officer that oversees a group or committee. A chairperson may also go by the title "president." The chairperson is in charge of managing the group of individuals often assigned a specific task or set of responsibilities. For example, a Board of Directors often has a chairperson to oversee the management of the entire board. A CEO may hold a chairperson position if they directly manage a committee.
Owner: An owner is a financial stakeholder of a company, usually with an equity position in the business. An owner may be entitled to the profits of a company in the proportion of their ownership weight, as a company may have multiple owners. If there are more than one owners, an individual may be referred to as a part-owner. A CEO may be an owner if they have a financial stake in the company.
Director: A director may refer to a few different positions. First, a director may be upper management or executive-level position depending on a company's organizational structure. Second, a director may be an individual serving on the board of an organization. A CEO may be a director-level employee, although most companies' CEOs are on a higher tier employment level than directors. Alternatively, a CEO is not a director, as a director oversees the activity of a CEO.






Remember that a CEO often reports to a board of directors who collectively make sure the company is functioning well.


   The Impact of a CEO Change  

During CEO transitions, markets can respond either positively or negatively to the change in company leadership. That makes sense, as studies show that CEOs may have a large impact on a company's performance. For instance, one study found that 45% of company performance is influenced by the CEO. But on the flip side, another shows that CEOs affect just 15% of variance in profitability. 



When a new CEO takes over a company, the price of its stock could change for any number of reasons. However, there is no positive correlation between a stock's performance and the announcement of a new CEO, per se.



However, a change in CEO generally carries more downside risk than upside, particularly when it has not been planned. A stock's price could swing up or down based on the market's perception of the new CEO's ability to lead the company, for example. Other factors to consider when investing in a stock that's undergoing a management change include the incoming CEO's agenda; whether there might be a shift in corporate strategy for the worse; and how well the company's C-suite is managing the transition phase.



Investors tend to be more comfortable with new CEOs who are already familiar with the dynamics of the company's industry, and the specific challenges that the company may be facing. Typically, investors will assess a new CEO’s track record for creating shareholder value. A CEO's reputation could be reflected in areas like an ability to grow market share, reduce costs, or expand into new markets.




What Does a CEO Do?
CEOs are responsible for managing a company's overall operations. This may include delegating and directing agendas, driving profitability, managing company organizational structure, strategy, and communicating with the board.




Is the CEO the Owner of the Company?
It depends. In some cases, CEOs are the owners of a company. In others, CEOs are elected by the board of directors.




Is CEO or CFO Higher?
CEO is the highest position to occupy in a company. The CFO, who is responsible for the financial discipline of a company along with identifying the strengths and weaknesses of a company, ultimately reports to the CEO.




What Position Is Higher Than CEO?
A CEO often reports to a board of directors. The board oversees the performance of the CEO and can elect to remove or replace the CEO if they feel the executive's performance isn't producing the results they want to see.


   The Bottom Line  

The CEO is responsible for making major corporate decisions, managing overall operations, and setting the company's strategic direction. They are accountable to the board of directors or stakeholders of the company and are often the public face of the organization. CEOs typically have extensive experience in their industry and are tasked with guiding their company towards success and profitability.
What Is a Chief Financial Officer (CFO)?  

The term chief financial officer (CFO) refers to a senior executive responsible for managing the financial actions of a company. The CFO's duties include tracking cash flow and financial planning as well as analyzing the company's financial strengths and weaknesses and proposing corrective actions. The role of a CFO is similar to a treasurer or controller because they are responsible for managing the finance and accounting divisions and for ensuring that the company’s financial reports are accurate and completed in a timely manner.





Key Takeaways

A chief financial officer is a top-level executive.The CFO is a financial controller who handles everything relating to cash flow, financial planning, and taxation issues.A CFO is often the highest financial position and the third-highest position in a company, playing a vital role in the company's strategic initiatives.Financial reports completed under a CFO must adhere to financial standards.People interested in becoming a CFO must have an academic and professional background in finances, economics, and/or analysis.












Investopedia / Zoe Hansen


   How Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) Work  

The chief financial officer is a member of the C-suite, a term used to describe the most important executives in a company. Alongside the CFO, these roles include the chief executive officer (CEO), the chief operating officer (COO), and the chief information officer (CIO).



Becoming a CFO requires a certain degree of experience in the industry. The majority of people who end up in this position have advanced degrees and certifications, such as a graduate degree in finance or economics, and the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation. It also helps to have a background in accounting, investment banking, or analysis.



The CFO reports to the CEO but remains one of the key personnel in any company. In the financial industry, it is a high-ranking position, and in other industries, it is usually the third-highest position in a company.



People in this role have significant input in the company's investments, capital structure, and how the company manages its income and expenses. This corporate officer may assist the CEO with forecasting, cost-benefit analysis, and obtaining funding for various initiatives.



The CFO also works with other senior managers and is a vital participant in a company's overall success, especially when it comes to the long run. For instance, when the marketing department wants to launch a new campaign, the CFO may help to ensure the campaign is feasible or give input on the funds available for the campaign.






A CFO can become a CEO, COO, or they can assume the role of company president.


   Special Considerations  

The CFO must report accurate information because many decisions are based on the data they provide. The CFO is responsible for managing the financial activities of a company and adhering to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other regulatory entities.



CFOs must also adhere to regulations such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that include provisions such as fraud prevention and disclosing financial information.



Local, state, and federal governments hire CFOs to oversee taxation issues. Typically, the CFO is the liaison between local residents and elected officials on accounting and other spending matters. The CFO sets financial policy and is responsible for managing government funds.


   The Benefits of Being a CFO  

The CFO role has emerged from focusing on compliance and quality control to business planning and process changes, and they are a strategic partner to the CEO. The CFO plays a vital role in influencing company strategy.



The United States is an international financial hub and global economic growth increases employment growth in the U.S. financial industry. Companies continue to increase profits leading to a demand for CFOs. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) predicts the job outlook for financial managers to grow 15% between 2019 and 2029. The average annual salary for a financial manager was $134,180 in 2020.




Is a CFO an Accountant?
Generally, no, a CFO is not the same as an accountant. Accountants handle bookkeeping tasks and tax filings. Meanwhile, a CFO focuses on the company's financial future, creating forecasts.




What Is the Average Salary of a CFO?
The average salary of a CFO, according to PayScale, is roughly $140,000.




What Is the Highest CFO Salary?
The highest-paid CFO for fiscal year 2020 was Comcast's Michael J. Cavanagh, whose salary was $2.39 million.




How Do You Become a CFO?
Generally speaking, the CFO position is reserved for very experienced professionals with established track records in their field. CFOs are generally equipped with advanced educational designations, such as a Master of Finance or Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation. Many CFOs have professional backgrounds in fields such as accounting, investment banking, or financial analysis. For financial professionals, the CFO is among the most prestigious and highly-paid positions available in a firm.




Are a CEO and a CFO the Same Thing?
No, a CEO and a CFO are not the same thing. However, CFOs are required to work closely with the other senior executives of a company, such as the CEO. These executives are sometimes referred to as the C-Suite of the company, representing the company’s highest level of decision-making. Although the CFO is typically subordinate to the CEO in the corporate hierarchy, CFOs will generally be the foremost decision-maker on all matters within the Finance department of their firm.


   The Bottom Line  

The CFO is the top ranking executive related to managing a company's finances. This includes managing all aspects of financial and cash flow planning, as well as analyzing its financial position. A CFO is comparable to a treasurer or controller. However, unlike a controller or accountant, a CFO is responsible for financial planning, while the other two are in charge of bookkeeping and the company's financial statements.
What Is a Chief Operating Officer (COO)?  

The chief operating officer (COO) is a senior executive tasked with overseeing the day-to-day administrative and operational functions of a business. The COO typically reports directly to the chief executive officer (CEO) and is considered to be second in the chain of command.



In some corporations, the COO is known by other terms, such as "executive vice president of operations," "chief operations officer," or "operations director."





Key Takeaways

The chief operating officer (COO) is a senior executive tasked with overseeing the day-to-day administrative and operational functions of a business.The COO typically reports directly to the chief executive officer (CEO) and is considered to be second in the chain of command.Depending on the CEO's preference, the COO often handles a company's internal affairs, while the CEO functions as the public face of the company, and thereby handles all outward-facing communication.Skills required to be a COO include strong analytical, managerial, communication, and leadership skills.There are generally seven different types of COOs that are best suited for different situations and different companies.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   The Role of a Chief Operating Officer (COO)  

The COO mainly focuses on executing the company’s business plan, according to the established business model, while the CEO is more concerned with long-term goals and the broader company outlook. In other words, the CEO devises plans, while the COO implements them.



For instance, when a company experiences a drop in market share, the CEO might call for increased quality control, in order to fortify its reputation among customers. In this case, the COO might carry out the CEO's mandate by instructing the human resources department to hire more quality control personnel. The COO may also initiate the rollout of new product lines, and may likewise be responsible for production, research and development, and marketing.


   Responsibilities of a COO  

A chief operating officer is responsible for the day-to-day operations of a company. Their responsibilities can include:



Recruitment and hiringFinancial operationsBudget developmentProduction oversightExecuting business strategy



Keep in mind that the role of a COO may vary from company to company according to each firm's needs.



Depending on the CEO's preference, the COO often handles a company's internal affairs, while the CEO functions as the public face of the company, and thereby handles all outward-facing communication.





Skill Set

Instead of having one or two skill sets, most successful COOs have multifaceted talents, enabling them to adapt to different tasks and solve a range of issues.



In many cases, a COO is specifically chosen to complement the skill sets of the sitting CEO. In an entrepreneurial situation, the COO often has more practical experience than the founding CEO, who may have come up with an excellent concept, but lacks the start-up know-how to launch a company and manage its early stages of development.



Consequently, COOs often design operations strategies, communicate policies to employees, and help human resources (HR) build out core teams.


   Types of COOs  

Every company is different and in a different stage of growth. A new company will have very different needs than a company that has been around for 100 years and has a large market share in its industry. Depending on the company, its needs, its cycle stage, and its unique characteristics, the specific type of COO required to help it realize its goals will vary.



There are generally seven types of COOs:



The executor, who oversees the implementation of company strategies created by senior management and who has the responsibility of delivering results on a day-to-day basisThe change agent, who spearheads new initiatives and may be in charge of leading specific company turnaroundsThe mentor, who is hired to counsel younger or newer company team members, such as a young CEOThe most valuable player (MVP), who is promoted internally to ensure they don't defect to a rival companyThe "other half," who is brought in to complement the CEO and who typically has the opposite characteristics and abilities of the CEOThe partner, who is brought in to co-lead as another version of the CEOThe heir apparent, who becomes COO to learn from the CEO in order to ultimately assume the CEO position


   Qualifications and Skills of a COO  

A COO typically has extensive experience in the field within which a given company operates. COOs often work for at least 15 years climbing the corporate ladder. This slow build helps prepare COOs for their roles, by letting them cultivate extensive experience in the practices, policies, and procedures of their chosen field.



Also, because they're traditionally responsible for directing multiple departments, COOs must be resourceful problem solvers and must possess strong leadership skills. Educationally, COOs typically hold bachelor's degrees at a minimum, while often also holding Master's in Business Administration (MBA) degrees and other certifications.


   How to Become a COO  

The path to becoming a COO can be a long one, just like for any C-suite role. It can take many years of learning on the job as well as in school. Others become COO much more quickly, such as by joining a startup or starting a business.



To develop your skills with the aim of becoming a chief operating officer, you'll likely focus on the following steps:



Get your degree: A bachelor's degree or master's degree in business will provide a foundation for business strategy and operations management.Gain varied work experience: Companies that value employee growth and cross-departmental experience are good employers for future COOs.Develop leadership experience: Developing your skills as a manager is good preparation for leading an organization.Build your network: Your first (or next) COO role could be the result of productive, respectful relationships built inside and outside of your employer.


   COO vs. CEO  

There are some basic similarities between these two roles. Both CEO and COO are inside directors of a company. They both are tasked with participating in daily management activities to keep the company running smoothly.



The difference between a COO and a CEO starts with the organizational chart: the CEO is at the top of the chain of command, with the COO second in command, reporting to the CEO.



Where the CEO is typically outward-facing, the COO is typically inward-facing, in charge of internal operations and communications. And while the CEO devises business strategy, it is the COO who oversees its implementation.









 CEO
COO




Long-term planning
Daily operations


Sets strategy and vision
Implements strategy and vision


Focused externally
Focused internally


Reports to board of directors
Reports to CEO





   Examples of COOs  
  Ray Lane (Oracle)  

Oracle is a technology firm that began in 1977. It sells database software, cloud technology, management systems, and a variety of other products. Oracle had been performing well as a company but then hit a growth cap and couldn't increase annual revenue past $1 billion for a period of time.



In 1992, Larry Ellison, then CEO and now executive chair and chief technology officer (CTO), brought in Ray Lane to turn the company's fortunes around. Lane joined as Senior Vice President and President of Oracle USA. He became COO in 1996.



When Lane came on board, he integrated packaged software and high-margin professional service. In this aspect, he was selling two products in one cycle, increasing revenues from one sale. And according to him, because the people providing the professional service were experts on the product, the company could charge a high price for it, resulting in a high margin.



In 1992, Oracle had sales of $1.8 billion and profits of $61.5 million. In 1997, it had $5.7 billion in sales and profits of $821.5 million.



In 1999, Lane received a salary of $1 million and a $2.25 million bonus. He was also given 1.125 million in stock options, at the time valued between $11.8 million and $30 million.


  Mort Topfer (Dell)  

The history of Dell Computers is quite famous, with Michael Dell having started the company in his dorm room in 1984. It was the first company to sell personal computers directly to consumers. The company had been performing well until about 1993 when business started to flounder.



The company's stock fell from $49 to $16 and the CFO had resigned. The problems of the company were due to rapid growth that it could just not keep up with. It had a planned launch of notebook computers that was eventually stopped because of poor production planning. At the time, the company didn't know what product lines its profits and losses were coming from. In essence, its operations were a mess.



With the company falling apart, Dell decided to bring on people with experience. He chose people older than him who had the managerial chops to turn things around. The key hire was Mort Topfer. Though he did not have the title of COO (he was vice chair), he did the job of COO and was Dell's mentor and right-hand man.






As of 2023, Dell was the third-largest computer company in the world, with a market share of 16.18%.



When Topfer came onboard he implemented multi-year planning, opened more affordable factories overseas, restructured management, and encouraged Dell to focus on strategy while Topfer would deal with day-to-day operations. The company turned around, becoming a powerhouse.



Topfer joined Dell in 1994 and previously worked at Motorola, heading its land mobile products division. In 2000, his salary at Dell was $700,000 with a bonus of $1.2 million. He also received 290,910 stock options.




What Is the Difference Between a CEO and COO?
A CEO is the top-most ranking person at a firm, responsible for the long-term health and direction of the firm, while a COO is the second-highest individual in the firm, reporting to the CEO and responsible for the day-to-day operations of the firm.




What Does It Take To Be a COO?
COOs have a strong educational background combined with extensive work experience. A strong COO will have worked in a variety of positions, particularly in a specific organization, to understand all of the different parts of a business and how they work together. This allows them to pinpoint specific issues and gaps within the organization. Having experience managing people and teams is also imperative to be a COO. In addition, COOs should be great communicators, strong leaders, and flexible managers.




How Much Money Does a COO Make?
The salary of a COO will vary greatly depending on a variety of factors, including the company they work for, their experience, and their contract. According to PayScale, as of 2023, the average COO salary is $139,156. The base salary ranges from $69,000to $249,000. On top of that, COOs are paid bonuses and profit-sharing plans.


   The Bottom Line﻿  

A COO is the CEO's right-hand person and the second-highest in command at a firm. The COO is responsible for the day-to-day operations of a firm and for assisting the CEO in a variety of tasks. Not all firms require a COO; however, those that do often benefit from the specific skill set that a COO brings to a company, such as strong analytical, organizational, and communication skills.
What Is a Chief Technology Officer (CTO)?  

A chief technology officer (CTO) is the executive in charge of an organization's technological needs as well as its research and development (R&D). Also known as a chief technical officer, this individual examines the short- and long-term needs of an organization and utilizes capital to make investments designed to help the organization reach its objectives. The CTO usually reports directly to a company's chief information officer (CIO), but may also report to the chief executive officer (CEO) of the firm.





Key Takeaways

A chief technology officer (CTO) is an executive who is responsible for the management of an organization's research and development (R&D) as well as its technological needs. As of Jul. 14, 2022, the average base salary of a CTO is $257,971.Depending on the company, a CTO may play one of several roles, including strategic planner, customer relations liaison, and overseer of infrastructure.Becoming a CTO often involves at least 15 years of IT experience, along with a graduate degree and certifications in computer sciences and business administration.


   Understanding the Role of the Chief Technology Officer (CTO)  

A chief technology officer (CTO) is the highest technology executive position within a company and leads the technology or engineering department. They develop policies and procedures and use technology to enhance products and services that focus on external customers. The CTO also develops strategies to increase revenue and performs a cost-benefit analysis and return-on-investment analysis.



Originally a chief information officer (CIO) previously performed dual roles as CIO and chief technology officer (CTO). However, as technology continued to advance, there was a growing need to separate the CIO job into two roles to ensure a company's success. Hence, the development of the CTO as a separate position.



How do the two differ? Despite the titles, the CTO has more of an outward-looking, strategic planning role, while the CIO has more of a technology-focused, operational role. Generally, a CIO is responsible for technologies that run the company's internal operations and business procedures. The CTO is responsible for technologies that grow the business externally, implementing services and products that serve clients and customers.



Many large corporations need both a CTO and CIO, while smaller companies tend to have one or the other. The choice depends on the company's vision and budget.






As technology focuses more on integrating applications, processes, and the Internet of Things, CTOs must keep abreast of big data, streaming analytics, and cloud technology to remain innovative and stay competitive.


   Types of Chief Technology Officers  

While research and development have been a component of businesses for many years, the rise of information technology (IT) and computers has increased the importance of the chief technology officer. Companies focusing on scientific and electronic products employ CTOs who are responsible for the oversight of intellectual property and have backgrounds in the industry. 



But the responsibilities and role of the CTO also depend on the company. There are typically four different kinds of CTOs, whose main duties may differ.


  Infrastructure Overseer  

This CTO may oversee the company's data, security, maintenance, and the network of a company and may implement (but not necessarily set) the company's technical strategy. The CTO may also manage the company's technological roadmap. 


  Strategic Planner  

This type of CTO may envision how technology will be used within the company while setting the technical strategy for the company. This CTO will also look at how to further implement new technologies within the company to ensure its success. 


  Consumer Liaison  

In this role, a CTO will act as a liaison between the customer and the business by taking on the responsibilities of customer relations, getting a grasp on the target market, and helping deliver IT projects to market.


  Thinker  

This kind of CTO will help set up the corporate strategy and fuel technological infrastructure, will analyze target markets, and create business models. Additionally, the CTO will have a close relationship with the CEO and other members of the company's senior management.


   Becoming a Chief Technology Officer (CTO)  

As with most jobs in the IT industry, the path to CTO starts with a bachelor’s degree in a computer- or information science-related field (computer programming, software development, management information systems, applied mathematics, cybersecurity).



Many firms also prefer their CTOs to have M.A.s: master's degrees in computer sciences, information technologies, or technology management. Given the fact that CTOs often focus on products for customers and customer relations, sales, and marketing courses are often useful as well. Many chief technology officers have MBA degrees, reflecting the significance of IT in strategic corporate planning and business goals.



On-the-job, practical experience is important: Most CTOs have worked their way up the IT ranks at different organizations. Industry certifications, if not crucial, can significantly enhance an applicant's credentials as well.



A chief technology officer is a high-ranking executive-level position in a company, part of the senior-level, "c-suite." So applicants may need more than 15 years of experience in the IT field before being considered for a CTO job.



As of Jul. 14, 2022, annual salaries for CTOs in the United States range from $216,341 to $301,727, according to Salary.com.





$257,971

The average base salary of a CTO in 2022, according to Salary.com, as of Jul. 14, 2022.


   Special Considerations  

The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that the job outlook for CTOs, along with other computer and information systems managers, is good: Employment is expected to increase 11% between 2020 and 2030—much faster than the average 4% for all jobs.



The continued growth of business conducted over information systems is the main cause of employment growth in this role. Rapid advancements in business solutions and growth in mobile device usage and cloud computing usage have also contributed to the expected increase in job openings.



In 2009, the White House announced the appointment of the country's very first CTO, an official in the Office of Science and Technology Policy. This official's main focus is to use technology to help stimulate job creation, improve healthcare and security systems, and increase broadband access. Aneesh Chopra was the first CTO of the U.S.


   Chief Technology Officer FAQs  
  What Does a CTO Do?  

Chief technology officers (CTOs) evaluate new technology and implement it to launch or improve goods and services for their firm's clientele and customers.


  Are CTO and CIO the Same?  

The CTO title has been in use for over 10 years, but there is still confusion about the role and how it differs from the CIO. The title first developed at dot-com companies in the 1990s and then expanded to IT departments. The CTO role became popular as the information technology (IT) industry grew, but it is also used in other industries such as e-commerce, healthcare, telecommunications, and government.



Although there is overlap between the two positions, since both deal with IT, CTOs generally look outward, using technology to improve the company's customer experience—the use of the goods and services. CIOs generally look inward, developing and using technology to improve the company's procedures and operations.


  Who Does a CTO Report To?  

CTOs often report to CIOs. However, they may report directly to a company's CEO, especially if there is no CIO position.


  What Does a Chief Technology Officer Do?  

A chief technology officer (CTO) is responsible for overseeing the development and dissemination of technology for external customers, vendors, and other clients to help improve and increase business. They may also deal with internal IT operations if a company is small and doesn't have a chief information officer.


  What It Takes To Become a CTO  

CTOs start out with bachelor's degrees in a computer-science-related field. They often earn master's degrees as well, again in computer sciences or mathematics fields—though more general MBAs are common as well.



CTOs generally have at least 15 years of IT job experience under their belts. Along with technical expertise, they must demonstrate leadership, decision-making, management, and business strategy skills.
What Is the Child Tax Credit?  

The Child Tax Credit is a tax benefit granted to American taxpayers with children under the age of 17 as of the end of the year. For the 2022 tax year, the credit is $2,000 for each qualifying child.



You qualify for the full amount for each child if you earn up to $200,000 as an individual filer or $400,000 for joint filers. The benefit is phased out for parents with higher incomes.



This benefit has reverted to pre-2021 levels after two years during which emergency legislation related to the COVID-19 pandemic boosted the benefit to as much as $3,000 per child and $3,600 for children under age 6.



The credit also is no longer refundable. That is, taxpayers whose credit exceeds their tax liability won't receive a check for the unused portion of the credit, with exceptions only for certain very low-income earners.





Key Takeaways

The Child Tax Credit is a $2,000-per-child tax benefit claimed by filing Form 1040 and attaching Schedule 8812 to the return.To qualify for the credit, the taxpayer's dependent must generally be under the age of 17 and must have a Social Security number.As of the 2022 tax year, the full benefit is available to people whose income did not exceed $400,000 for joint filers, or $200,000 for single filers. It phases out at higher income levels.


   How the Child Tax Credit Works  

The Child Tax Credit lowers taxpayers’ total taxes owed on a dollar-for-dollar basis. (That's better than a tax deduction, which reduces total taxable income and generally results in smaller savings.)



To get the credit, you must have a Social Security number for the dependent child. It can be claimed by filing Schedule 8812, Credits for Qualifying Children and Other Dependents with Form 1040.



The credits are available if the dependent child or children meet the following qualifications:



Is under age 17 at the end of the tax year.Is a child, stepchild, foster child, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, half-brother, half-sister, or a descendant of any of those family members.Has lived with you for more than half the year.Has contributed no more than half of his or her own support.Has been claimed as a dependent on your taxes.Has not filed a joint return with a spouse, or has filled only to clam a refund of estimated tax paid.Is a U.S. citizen, national, or resident alien.



The IRS offers a useful tool to help taxpayers figure out if their child or dependent qualifies for the Child Tax Credit.






The Child Tax Credit is not considered earned income. Therefore, it does not affect other government benefits such as unemployment insurance, Medicaid, SNAP, SSI, or Public Housing.


   How to Claim the Child Tax Credit  

Some people with low income don't bother filing taxes because they know they don't owe any money. That can be a mistake for several reasons.



First of all, all but the lowest income earners are required to file a tax return.



Even more importantly, you may be missing out on some important benefits that you are eligible to receive. One of these, if you have a family, is the Child Tax Credit.



To claim the Child Tax Credit, a taxpayer must file Form 1040 (U.S. Individual Income Tax Return). In addition, a taxpayer must attach Schedule 8812 (Credits for Qualifying Children and Other Dependents).



Schedule 8812 is used to figure out the amount of Child Tax Credit a taxpayer is eligible to receive.


   Child Tax Credit: Impact on Policy and Poverty  

Since its enactment in 1997, the Child Tax Credit has benefited most working families, Over the years, it has been criticized regularly for providing little or no benefit to the poorest families, many of whom are not taxpayers and do not file tax returns.



The expansion of the Child Tax Credit during the pandemic had important implications for the economy at large as well as for low- and moderate-income families. The emergency measures include prepayment of the benefits to eligible taxpayers. Some efforts also were made to reach out to very low-income families who didn't normally file tax returns and therefore weren't easily identifiable by the IRS when it came time to mail out the checks.



Well before the pandemic, frequent amendments increased the Child Tax Credit amount and widened its eligibility requirements; at one time, refunds were restricted to taxpayers with three or more children. But, for years, the Child Tax Credit did not reach the poorest families.



In 2021, for the first time, the significant increase in the credit amount and the provision of total refundability extended benefits to the neediest families. According to the Center on Poverty & Social Policy at Columbia University, "...the sixth Child Tax Credit payment kept 3.7 million children from poverty in December [2021]."



On its own, the Child Tax Credit reduced monthly child poverty by nearly 30%."



The expanded and fully refundable Child Tax Credit was enacted as part of the American Rescue Plan Act, a law formally targeted at relieving the economic problems created by the COVID-19 pandemic. It also addressed many limitations considered problematic in the earlier versions of the Child Tax Credit.



The enlarged credit constituted an enormous financial commitment. Congressional Democrats strongly supported the increased Child Tax Credit. Republicans generally favored some expanded benefits for children but criticized the version of the Child Tax Credit that was enacted for its cost and for the lack of any work requirement. The Biden administration undertook an extensive public educational and promotional program to maximize the credit’s use and benefits.




Who Is Eligible for the Child Tax Credit?
There are eligibility requirements for the taxpayer and the dependent. The taxpayer must meet certain relationship requirements with the dependent, and the credit is phased out at higher income levels.Both the taxpayer and the child must have Social Security numbers and only one taxpayer may claim the Child Tax Credit for any single dependent (even if that dependent can be claimed by other taxpayers).It's often more difficult to meet the requirements for the qualifying child. The individual must be under the age of 17 at the end of the year (as of the 2022 tax year), provide no more than half of their own financial support, and have lived with the taxpayer for at least half of the year. The qualifying child must be the taxpayer's son, daughter, stepchild, brother, sister, stepsibling, half-sibling, or a descendant of any of these.




What Are the Child Tax Credit Income Limits for the 2022 Tax Year?
The full Child Tax Credit is available to individuals earning no more than $200,000. It's $400,000 for couples filing jointly. The credit phases out, so taxpayers with higher incomes may be eligible for a partial refund.




How Do I Claim the Child Tax Credit?
Form 8812 is used to claim the Child Tax Credit. This requires you to identify each qualified dependent and their Social Security numbers. It also calculates the amount you qualify to receive.Attach Form 8812 to your Form 1040.


   The Bottom Line  

Parents are no longer getting the extra Child Tax Credit benefits that were sent out to taxpayers with dependents in the 2020 and 2021 tax years as part of Coronavirus emergency legislation.



However, the Child Tax Credit has not ended. The credit for the 2022 tax year is $2,000 for each child or other dependent.
What Is a Chinese Wall?  

The term Chinese wall, as it is used in the business world, describes a virtual barrier intended to block the exchange of information between departments if it might result in business activities that are ethically or legally questionable. In the United States, corporations, brokerage firms, investment banks, and retail banks have used Chinese walls to describe situations where there is a need to maintain confidentiality in order to prevent conflicts of interest.



Over the years, large financial institutions have used Chinese wall policies as a means to self-regulate their business dealings by creating ethical boundaries between departments. However, these efforts have not always been effective. Thus, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has enacted regulations governing how financial institutions share information. The SEC has implemented fines, penalties, and legal consequences for companies that break these regulations.





Key Takeaways

A Chinese wall is a business term used to describe a virtual barrier erected to block the exchange of information between departments in a company.The wall is not a physical one, but an ethical one intended to prevent the sharing of information that might lead to ethical or legal violations.In the financial industry, the need for such barriers grew with the enactment of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA), which repealed federal laws banning firms from any combination of banking, investing, and insurance services.


   How a Chinese Wall Works  

The policy of building a Chinese wall within a company is common in investment banking. Through their client relationships, investment bankers frequently have access to non-public, material information concerning publicly traded companies or companies that are about to become public through an initial public offering (IPO). Investment bankers are responsible for developing information barriers that control confidential information from one department of the bank to another and to other business units within the bank.



The need for a Chinese wall in the financial industry became more critical after the enactment of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA). The law repealed federal regulations prohibiting companies from providing any combination of banking, investing, and insurance services. The GLBA reversed restrictions on such combinations that had been in place since the Great Depression. The GLBA also enabled the creation of today's financial giants such as Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase.






In recent times, the use of the term Chinese wall has been denounced as culturally insensitive. One judge suggested an "ethics wall" as an alternative.


   Examples of a Chinese Wall  

A financial services firm might have a corporate investment arm that is acting on the behalf of a public company planning a takeover of a rival company. The talks are highly confidential, not least because of the potential for illegal insider trading on the information. Yet, the same firm has investment advisers in another division who may be actively advising clients to buy or sell stock in the companies involved. The Chinese wall is supposed to prevent any knowledge of the takeover talks from reaching the investment advisers.



The need for a Chinese wall policy was strengthened in 2002 by the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), which mandated that companies have stricter safeguards against insider trading.



The concept of a Chinese wall exists in other professions. They may be temporary or permanent. For example, if a legal firm is representing both sides in an ongoing legal dispute, a temporary wall may be placed between the two legal teams to prevent actual or perceived collusion or bias.


   Special Considerations  

The Chinese wall got its name from the Great Wall of China, the impervious structure erected in ancient times to protect China from its enemies. The term entered the language shortly after the stock market crash of 1929 when Congress began debating the need to put regulatory barriers between brokers and investment bankers.



In more recent times, the term has been denounced as culturally insensitive. In 1988, Justice Low, a judge in Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. vs. the Superior Court, wrote extensively about the offensiveness of the phrase and its negative connotation towards Chinese culture and business practices.



For that matter, the judge noted, the metaphor isn't even appropriate. The phrase is meant to define a two-way seal to prevent communication between parties, while the actual Great Wall of China is a one-way barrier to keep invaders out. Justice Low offered the term "ethics wall" as an alternative.
What Is Churn Rate?  

The churn rate, also known as the rate of attrition or customer churn, is the rate at which customers stop doing business with an entity. It is most commonly expressed as the percentage of service subscribers who discontinue their subscriptions within a given time period. It is also the rate at which employees leave their jobs within a certain period. For a company to expand its clientele, its growth rate (measured by the number of new customers) must exceed its churn rate.





Key Takeaways

The churn rate measures a company's loss in subscribers for a given period of time.Churn rates can be applied to subscription-based businesses as well to the number of employees that leave a firm.The churn rate and growth rate are diametrically opposite factors, as the former measures the loss of customers and the other measures the acquisition of customers. For a company to experience growth it must ensure that its new subscriptions are higher than its lost subscriptions in a given period.Each industry will have a different average churn rate that companies can compare themselves with to understand their competitiveness.


   Understanding Churn Rate  

A high churn rate could adversely affect profits and impede growth. Churn rate is an important factor in the telecommunications industry. In most areas, many of these companies compete, making it easy for people to transfer from one provider to another.



The churn rate not only includes when customers switch carriers but also includes when customers terminate service without switching. This measurement is most valuable in subscriber-based businesses in which subscription fees comprise most of the revenues.



What is considered a good or bad churn rate can vary from industry to industry.


   Churn Rate vs. Growth Rate  

A company can compare its new subscribers versus its loss of subscribers to determine both its churn rate and growth rate to see if there was overall growth or loss in a specific time period. While the churn rate tracks lost customers, the growth rate tracks new customers.



If the growth rate is higher than the churn rate, the company experienced growth. When the churn rate is higher than the growth rate, the company experienced a loss in its customer base.



For example, if in one quarter a company added 100 new subscribers but lost 110 subscribers, the net loss would be 10. There was no growth for the company this quarter but rather a loss. This would be a negative growth rate and a positive churn rate.






It's important to pay attention to customer acquisition costs and to note whether a customer churns before you have made back the money spent on acquiring that customer.



It is critical for a company to ensure that its growth rate is higher than its churn rate otherwise it will experience declining revenues and profits with the eventual scenario of having to close the business.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Churn Rate  
  Advantages  

The advantage of calculating a company's churn rate is that it provides clarity on how well the business is retaining customers, which is a reflection on the quality of the service the business is providing, as well as its usefulness.



If a company sees that its churn rate is increasing from period to period then it understands that a fundamental component of how it is running its business is flawed. The company may be providing a faulty product, it may have poor customer service, or its product may not be attractive to individuals who decided the cost is not worth the utility.



The churn rate will indicate to a company that it needs to understand why its clients are leaving and where to fix its business. The cost of acquiring new customers is much higher than it is to retain current customers, so as you ensure that the customers you worked hard to attract remain as paying customers, it makes sense to understand the quality of your business.


  Disadvantages  

One of the limitations of the churn rate is that it does not take into consideration the types of customers that are leaving. Customer decay is primarily seen in the most recently acquired customers.



Perhaps your company had a recent promotion that attracted new customers. Once this promotion was over or even if the benefit of the promotion never ended, customers that were trying out the product may determine it's not for them, canceling their subscription.



The impact of losing new customers versus long-term customers is critical. New customers are transient whereas old customers are entrenched and have enjoyed your product and there must be a more significant reason as to why they are leaving. A high churn rate in one period may be indicative of a high growth rate from the previous period rather than a judgment on the quality of the business.



The churn rate also does not provide a true industry comparison of the types of companies within an industry. Most new companies will have a high acquisition rate as new people try the business, but they will also have a higher churn rate as these new clients leave.



A company that is mature and has been around for decades will have a low churn rate as its clients are established but its acquisition rate will also be lower. Comparing the churn rates of both these companies will be like comparing apples and oranges.





Pros

Provides clarity on the quality of the business
Indicates whether customers are satisfied or dissatisfied with the product or service
Allows for comparison with competitors to gauge an acceptable level of churn
Easy to calculate



Cons

Does not provide clarity on the types of customers leaving: new versus old
Does not differentiate between types of companies in industry comparison: startups, growing, and mature





   Examples of Churn Rate  
  Telecommunications Industry Churn Rates  

The churn rate is a particularly useful measurement in the telecommunications industry. This includes cable or satellite television providers, internet providers, and telephone service providers (landline and wireless service providers).



As most customers have multiple options from which to choose, the churn rate helps a company determine how it is measuring up to its competitors. If one out of every 20 subscribers to a high-speed internet service terminated their subscriptions within a year, the annual churn rate for that internet provider would be 5%.


  Employment Churn Rate  

Employee turnover within a business can also be measured with the churn rate, as it provides a method for analyzing the company's hiring and retention patterns. This can be especially helpful if overall employee longevity within a company is low.



When statistics are examined on a department by department basis, it can highlight which particular departments are experiencing more frequent turnover within the company, or at a higher rate than the business average. This can help determine if the pay is satisfactory, the quality of the managers in that division, as well as the workload that each employee bears.




What Does Churning Mean in Business?
"Churning" in a business refers to the number of subscribers that leave a provider or the number of employees that leave a firm in a given period.




How Do You Calculate Churn Rate?
To calculate the churn rate, choose a specific time period and divide the total number of subscribers lost by the total number of subscribers acquired, and then multiply for the percentage.For example, say in a quarter you acquired 100 new subscribers but you lost 12 subscribers, your churn rate would be (12 / 100) x 100 = 12%.You can also calculate the churn rate by dividing the number of subscribers lost in a period by the total number of subscribers at the beginning of that period.




What Is a Good Churn Rate?
Ideally, a churn rate of zero would be the best churn rate, as that would indicate a business is not losing any subscribers; however, that is never the reality. A business will always lose subscribers for one reason or another.In this case, it is important to compare the churn rate of the business to its industry's average churn rate, taking into consideration if the business is new or mature. Knowing an industry's churn rate versus that of the business is the only way to understand if a churn rate is acceptable or poor. Every industry has a different business model and, therefore, will have different acceptable churn rates.




What Does a High Churn Rate Mean?
A high churn rate indicates that a business is losing significant customers, certainly more than it is bringing in. This would mean that the business is doing something wrong, whether that be delivering a poor product, having poor customer service, or a host of other negative reasons that would explain why it is losing customers fast. A high churn rate would most likely mean a company is suffering significant losses.




What Is Netflix's Churn Rate?
Between Q1 2009 and Q2 2021, Netflix had a churn rate between 2.3% and 2.4%.


   The Bottom Line  

Churn rate is a calculation that shows the percentage of subscribers of a business that are leaving. It can also be used to show the percentage of employees that are leaving a firm. Understanding a company's churn rate is one metric in understanding its financial health and its long-term prospects.



Companies with high churn rates are losing a large number of subscribers, resulting in little growth, which significantly impacts revenues and profits. Companies with low churn rates are managing to retain customers.



Understanding the churn rate of your company will also shed light on how your business is operating, whether you are providing a quality product matched with good customer service or whether your business needs improvements to lower its churn rate.
What Is Churning?  

Churning is the illegal and unethical practice by a broker of excessively trading assets in a client's account in order to generate commissions.



While there is no quantitative measure for churning, frequent buying and selling of stocks or any assets that do little to meet the client's investment objectives may be evidence of churning.





Key Takeaways

Churning is excessive trading of assets in a client's brokerage account in order to generate commissions.Churning is illegal and unethical and is subject to severe fines and sanctions.Brokerages may charge a commission on trades or a flat percentage fee for managed accounts.Flat-fee accounts can be subjected to "reverse churning," in which little or no trading is done in return for an annual slice of the assets.Investors can avoid churning and reverse churning by maintaining an active role in decision-making regarding their portfolios.


   Understanding Churning  

Churning may result in substantial losses in the client's account. Even if the trades are profitable, they may generate a greater than necessary tax liability for the client.



A broker overtrades by excessively buying and selling stocks on the investor’s behalf in order to increase the commissions earned on the transactions.



In some cases, a broker for a financial firm may be incentivized to place newly issued securities that were underwritten by the firm's investment banking arm. For example, brokers may receive a 10% bonus if they buy a certain number of shares on behalf of their clients. Such incentives may not be offered with the investors' best interests in mind.



Churning is hard to spot. An investor may conclude that a broker has been overtrading when the frequency of trades becomes counterproductive to the client's investment objectives, driving commission costs higher without observable results over time.


   Types of Churning  

At its most basic level, churning is defined by excessive trading by a broker to generate commissions. If a client is being charged frequent commissions with no noticeable portfolio gains, churning might be the problem.



Churning also applies to excessive or unnecessary trading of mutual funds and annuities. Mutual funds with an upfront load, the so-called A-shares, are intended to be long-term investments. Selling an A-share fund within five years and purchasing another A-share fund needs to be justified as a prudent investment decision.



Most mutual fund companies allow investors to switch into any fund within a fund family without incurring an upfront fee. A broker recommending an investment change should first consider funds within the fund family.



Deferred annuities are retirement savings accounts that usually do not have upfront fees like mutual funds. Instead, annuities typically have surrender charges, a type of penalty for early withdrawal of funds. Surrender charges vary from one to 10 years.



To prevent churning, many states have implemented exchange and replacement rules. These rules allow an investor to compare the new contract and highlight surrender penalties or fees.






To prevent churning, keep an eye on your account. Read every transaction notice, and review every monthly statement. Know how much commission you're paying.


   How to Prevent Churning  

Churning can only occur if a broker has discretionary authority over the client's account. A client can avoid this risk by maintaining full control, requiring the client's permission to make changes in the account.



Another way to eliminate churning is to use a fee-based account rather than a commission-based account. Known as a wrap account, this type of account eliminates the incentive for churning. The fee is charged quarterly or annually and is generally 1% to 3% of the assets under management.



The wrap account does not work for all investors. The flat fee can turn out to be excessive if there is little or no trading of the assets in the account. In fact, that situation is indicative of another form of churning called reverse churning.


   How to Prove Churning  

Churning is serious financial misconduct, but it's not easy to prove. Your best defense is to pay careful attention to your portfolio.



You can request that your broker discuss any buy or sell transactions with you in advance. You can explicitly sign that right away when opening the account but you can opt not to do that.Whether or not you discuss transactions with your broker in advance, you will receive a written notice from everyone. That's a federal requirement. If you're receiving notifications every day or every week, you might be a victim of churning.The above is particularly true if the transactions are in mutual funds, annuities, or insurance products. These are not the kinds of investments that should be traded frequently.When you review your monthly statements, check how much you're paying in commissions. High total commissions mean less profit for you.



If you think your broker is churning, you can report it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).


   Sanctions for Churning  

The SEC defines churning as excessive buying and selling in a customer’s account that the broker controls in order to generate increased commissions. Brokers who overtrade may be in breach of SEC Rule 15c1-7, which governs manipulative and deceptive conduct.



The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) looks into complaints about brokers who appear to be putting their own interests over that of their clients.



The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) governs overtrading under rule 2111 and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) prohibits the practice under Rule 408(c).



Investors who believe they have been a victim of churning can file a complaint with either the SEC or FINRA.



Churning is a serious offense and, if proven, can lead to employment termination, barring from the industry, and legal ramifications. In addition, FINRA may impose a fine ranging from $5,000 to $116,000.



FINRA also has the right to suspend the broker for anywhere from one month to two years. In more egregious cases, FINRA can suspend the violator for a longer period or even bar the broker indefinitely.


   Churning FAQs  

Here are the answers to some commonly asked questions about churning.


  What Is Credit Card Churning?  

Credit card churning involves opening a series of new credit card accounts in order to take advantage of the introductory rewards offered by each, and then closing the accounts or leaving them unused. Credit card churners used to be able to rack up a lot of rewards points by doing this.



This practice is not illegal but credit card companies don't like it. They have now put in place safeguards to prevent customers from repeatedly opening and closing accounts.


  What Is Reverse Churning?  

Churning occurs when a broker who is paid a commission for every trade makes many trades just to boost the commission pot. Reverse churning occurs when a broker who is paid a flat fee does little or no trading to earn that fee, which is a percentage of the assets under management.



To back up a step, investors have a choice to make when opening an account with a broker:



An account that pays the broker a commission for each buy and sell order made for the account, or,An account that pays the broker a flat-rate commission, usually ranging from 1% to 3% per year of the total assets under management.



Online or discount brokers charge a flat fee for every transaction, with zero fees common for certain transactions up to a limit. This is the do-it-yourself option with no professional advice or management, although online brokers are adding premium tiered services for those who want that.



In the worst-case scenario, an investor could flee a commission-based broker to avoid excessing transaction fees, only to open an account with a flat-rate broker who does nothing but take a slice off the top of the account every year.



A better option for the investor might be to maintain control over the account, approving or disapproving any buy and sell decisions. And, make it clear at the outset how active you expect the management of your portfolio to be.


  What Is Churning in the Insurance Industry?  

Insurance salespeople work on a commission basis. If they attempt to boost their own commissions by persuading their customers to switch insurance products instead of automatically renewing their existing policies, then they are churning.



The practice is illegal in most states.
What Is the Circular Flow Model?  

The circular flow model demonstrates how money moves through society. Money flows from producers to workers as wages and flows back to producers as payment for products. In short, an economy is an endless circular flow of money.



That is the basic form of the model, but actual money flows are more complicated. Economists have added in more factors to better depict complex modern economies. These factors are the components of a nation's gross domestic product (GDP) or national income. For that reason, the model is also referred to as the circular flow of income model.





Key Takeaways

The circular flow model demonstrates how money moves from producers to households and back again in an endless loop.In an economy, money moves from producers to workers as wages and then back from workers to producers as workers spend money on products and services.The models can be made more complex to include additions to the money supply, like exports, and leakages from the money supply, like imports.When all of these factors are totaled, the result is a nation's gross domestic product (GDP) or the national income.Analyzing the circular flow model and its current impact on GDP can help governments and central banks adjust monetary and fiscal policy to improve an economy.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Understanding the Circular Flow Model  

The basic purpose of the circular flow model is to understand how money moves within an economy. It breaks the economy down into two primary players: households and corporations. It separates the markets that these participants operate in as markets for goods and services and the markets for the factors of production. Other sectors can be added for more robust cash flow tracking.



The circular flow model is used to measure a nation's income, as the circular flow model measures both cash coming into and exiting a nation's economy. It is also used to gauge the interconnectivity between sectors as a fully robust and strong economy will have interaction between components. For instance, the relationship between a government's taxation policies and a household's consumption spending will have a direct impact on a business's ability to sell goods.



The circular flow model is aptly named because funds tend to continuously flow between sectors. As highlighted in the diagram below, money often flows from one sector to another, awarding benefits along the way. No single sector should hoard or collect all resources; instead, a fully-functioning circular model will continuously move funds so each sector can operate appropriately. Note that this example below is a single type of model and does not represent all circular flow models.












   Sectors of a Circular Flow Model  

There are different types of circular flow models, each with a different number of sectors it tracks. Below are the potential sectors that could be included in a circular flow model. Each sector within a circular flow model may be designated with a capital letter often used to describe how to calculate GDP.


  Household Sector  

In a two-sector model, circular flow models start with the household sector that engages in consumption spending (C). Households contribute to an economy by working (giving away time and labor) and by buying products (giving away money). In return, households consume products and utilize government programs.


  Business Sector  

In a two-sector model, circular flow models also include the business sector that produces the goods. Businesses absorb a variety of production costs including labor, materials, and overhead. As a result, many companies are able to manufacture products that benefit other parties.


  Government Sector  

In a three-sector model, government sector cash flows are included. The government injects money into the circle through government spending (G) on programs such as Social Security and the National Park Service. It also extracts money from households and businesses by way of taxes.


  Foreign Sector  

In a four-sector model, money also flows into the circle through exports (X), which bring in cash from international buyers from the foreign sector. By extension, this indicates that the two-sector or three-sector models are domestic activity only. The foreign sector is different from the domestic sector as there may be administrative inefficiencies that result in lost cash flow due to import taxes, duties, or fees.


  Financial Sector  

In a five-sector model, cash flow from the financial sector is added. This includes banks and other institutes that provide cash flow via lending services. Some circular flow models also outline investor activity, as cashflow from entrepreneurs and investors may represent an inflow to businesses while net profits from the company represent an outflow.






A change in one sector may critically change the rest of the circular flow model. For example, imagine if governments doubled individual tax rates. This change would likely have major repercussions on business, individuals, and other sectors within the circular flow model.


   Circular Flow Model: Injections and Leakages  

Just as money is injected into the economy, money is withdrawn or leaked through various means as well. Taxes (T) imposed by the government reduce the flow of income. Money paid to foreign companies for imports (M) also constitutes a leakage. Savings (S) by businesses that otherwise would have been put to use are a decrease in the circular flow of an economy’s income.



A government calculates its gross national income by tracking all of these injections into the circular flow of income and the withdrawals from it. The circular flow of income for a nation is said to be balanced when leakage equal injections. That is:



The level of injections is the sum of government spending (G), exports (X), and investments (I).The level of leakage or withdrawals is the sum of taxation (T), imports (M), and savings (S).



When G + X + I is greater than T + M + S, the level of national income (GDP) will increase. When the total leakage is greater than the total injected into the circular flow, national income will decrease. As long as a country's injections is greater than its leakages, a country's economy can theoretically remain sustaining forever. However, if there are cash flow shortages (i.e. leakages), the country must find additional cash flow to compensate for the shortage.


   Calculating Gross Domestic Product (GDP)  

GDP is calculated as consumer spending plus government spending plus business investment plus the sum of exports minus imports. It is represented as GDP = C + G + I + (X – M).



If businesses decided to produce less, it would lead to a reduction in household spending and cause a decrease in GDP. Or, if households decided to spend less, it would lead to a reduction in business production, also causing a decrease in GDP.



GDP is often an indicator of the financial health of an economy. A common, though not official, definition of a recession is two consecutive quarters of declining GDP. When this happens, governments and central banks adjust fiscal and monetary policy to boost growth.



Keynesian economics, for example, believes that spending leads to economic growth, so a central bank might cut interest rates, making money cheaper, so that individuals will buy more goods, such as houses and cars, increasing overall spending. As consumer spending increases, companies increase output and hire more workers to meet the increase in demand. The increase in employed people means more wages and, therefore, more people spending in the economy, leading producers to increase output again, continuing the cycle.





$25.7 Trillion

The United States GDP as of Q3 2022.


   Example of Circular Flow Model  

Consider a circular flow model involving Apple employees and Apple product consumers. In this example, we'll also include the government to form a three-sector circular flow model.



From the household/consumer perspective, there are several factors to consider. First, households may spend money and in return, the households get new innovative technology products. Second, households may be employed by Apple. Households may contribute labor hours and time to the company resulting in Apple growing and becoming a more successful company. Households receive income from Apple, though part of these funds is given to the government via taxes. Households then benefit from government programs.



From the business perspective, the company exists to create products. From above, they sell products and take money from households. They also take time for workers to make those products. A certain portion of the company's profits is given to the government in the form of taxes. In some cases, Apple may benefit from government programs or subsidies, so part of these tax dollars may indirectly benefit Apple.



From the government's perspective, both households and business pay taxes. These dollars are then used to deploy capital projects or public programming, both of which may benefit Apple, its employees, or its customers.



In this example, additional sectors (or additional flows) could be added. For example, Apple is an international company that sells goods around the world. Another example is how investors may contribute money into Apple in return for a portion of the company. This example highlights the complexity of the circular flow model as inputs and outputs are continually cycling throughout a systematic economy.




What Is the Outcome of a Circular Flow Model?
A circular flow model doesn't necessarily end or have an outcome. Instead, it describes the current position of an economy regarding how its inflows and outflows are used. This information can be used to make changes about the economy. For example, if a country realizes it has deficient national income, it may choose to reduce its imports and scale back certain government programs.




Why Is It Called a Circular Flow Model?
The economy often moves in a circle as money flows from one sector to another. Households spend money and businesses use that money to create new, better products for the households to buy in the future. Meanwhile, the businesses pay households for their time in helping develop those products. After adding in governments, investors, and foreign markets, the circular flow model depicts how cashflow moves money from one sector to the next in a systematic, organized way.




What Are the Limitations of a Circular Flow Model?
A circular flow model depicts where an economy is now. However, it fails to clearly communicate how a change in one variable may impact all other flows. For example, economists may struggle in determining how a 5% increase in unemployment may impact the circular flow model. Though it's understood that reduced income may lead to less consumption and less tax revenue, a circular flow model may not explain how one change will numerically change other values.


   The Bottom Line  

Our global economy is incredibly interconnected, and this is often graphically depicted using the circular flow model. The circular flow model details how resources flow into and out of households, businesses, governments, investors, markets, and foreign entities. This cycle shows how the resources of one sector are used to develop others in a cyclical manner.
What Is Classical Economics?  

Classical economics is a broad term that refers to the dominant school of thought for economics in the 18th and 19th centuries. Most consider Scottish economist Adam Smith the progenitor of classical economic theory. However, Spanish scholastics and French physiocrats made earlier contributions. Other notable contributors to classical economics include David Ricardo, Thomas Malthus, Anne Robert Jacques Turgot, John Stuart Mill, Jean-Baptiste Say, and Eugen Böhm von Bawerk.





Key Takeaways

Classical economic theory was developed shortly after the birth of western capitalism. It refers to the dominant school of thought for economics in the 18th and 19th centuries.Classical economic theory helped countries to migrate from monarchic rule to capitalistic democracies with self-regulation.Adam Smith’s 1776 release of the Wealth of Nations highlights some of the most prominent developments in classical economics.Theories to explain value, price, supply, demand, and distribution, were the focus of classical economics.Classical economics was eventually replaced with more updated ideas, such as Keynesian economics, which called for more government intervention.


   Understanding Classical Economics  

Self-regulating democracies and capitalistic market developments form the basis for classical economics. Before the rise of classical economics, most national economies followed a top-down, command-and-control, monarchic government policy system. Many of the most famous classical thinkers, including Smith and Turgot, developed their theories as alternatives to the protectionist and inflationary policies of mercantilist Europe. Classical economics became closely associated with economic, and later political, freedom.


   The Rise of Classical Economics  

Classical economic theory was developed shortly after the birth of western capitalism and the Industrial Revolution. Classical economists provided the best early attempts at explaining capitalism's inner workings. The earliest classical economists developed theories of value, price, supply, demand, and distribution. Nearly all rejected government interference with market exchanges, preferring a looser market strategy known as laissez-faire, or "let it be."



Classical thinkers were not completely unified in their beliefs or understanding of markets although there were notable common themes in most classical literature. The majority favored free trade and competition among workers and businesses. Classical economists wanted to transition away from class-based social structures in favor of meritocracies.


   The Decline of Classical Economics  

The classical economics of Adam Smith had drastically evolved and changed by the 1880s and 1890s, but its core remained intact. By that time, the writings of German philosopher Karl Marx had emerged to challenge the policy prescriptions of the classical school. However, Marxian economics made very few lasting contributions to economic theory.



A more thorough challenge to classical theory emerged in the 1930s and 1940s through the writings of British mathematician John Maynard Keynes. Keynes was a student of Alfred Marshall and admirer of Thomas Malthus. Keynes thought that free-market economies tended toward underconsumption and underspending. He called this the crucial economic problem and used it to criticize high-interest rates and individual preferences for saving. Keynes also refuted Say's Law of Markets.



Keynesian economics advocated for a more controlling role for central governments in economic affairs, which made Keynes popular with British and American politicians. After the Great Depression and World War II, Keynesianism had replaced classical and neoclassical economics as the dominant intellectual paradigm among world governments.


   Real World Example  

Adam Smith’s 1776 release of the Wealth of Nations highlights some of the most prominent developments in classical economics. His revelations centered around free trade and a concept called the "invisible hand" which served as the theory for the beginning stages of domestic and international supply and demand.



This theory, the dual and competing forces of demand-side and sell-side, moves the market to price and production equilibrium. Smith’s studies helped promote domestic trade and led to more efficient and rational pricing in the product markets based on supply and demand.
What Is a Clawback?  

A clawback is a contractual provision whereby money already paid to an employee must be returned to an employer or benefactor, sometimes with a penalty.



Many companies use clawback policies in employee contracts for incentive-based pay like bonuses. They are most often used in the financial industry. Most clawback provisions are non-negotiable. Clawbacks are typically used in response to misconduct, scandals, poor performance, or a drop in company profits.





Key Takeaways

A clawback is a contractual provision that requires an employee to return money already paid by an employer, sometimes with a penalty.Clawbacks act as insurance policies in the event of fraud or misconduct, a drop in company profits, or for poor employee performance.Provisions typically only involve incentive-based pay like bonuses or other benefits.Clawbacks are used primarily in the financial industry, but can also be found in government contracts, and for pensions and Medicaid.


   Understanding Clawbacks  

Following the financial crisis of 2008, clawback clauses have become more common since they allow a company to recover incentive-based pay from CEOs if there is misconduct or any discrepancies in the company's financial reports. 



Clawbacks are also written into employee contracts so employers can control bonuses and other incentive-based payments. The clawback acts as a form of insurance in case the company needs to respond to a crisis such as fraud, misconduct, or if the company sees a drop in profits. The employee must also pay back monies if the employer feels their performance has been poor.



Clawbacks are different from other refunds or repayments because they often come with a penalty. In other words, an employee must pay additional funds to the employer in case the clawback is put into effect.



Clawback provisions prevent people from using incorrect information and are used to put a balance between community development and corporate welfare. For example, they can help to prevent the misuse of accounting information by employees in the financial industry.



Clawbacks are considered an important part of the business model because they help to restore the confidence and faith of investors and the public in a company or industry. For example, banks implemented clawback provisions following the financial crisis as a way to correct any future mistakes by their executives.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   Special Considerations  
  Clawbacks and Executive Compensation  

The first federal statute to allow for clawbacks of executive pay was the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. It provides for clawbacks of bonuses and other incentive-based compensation paid to CEOs and CFOs in the event that misconduct on the part of the company—not necessarily the executives themselves—leads it to restate financial performance.



The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, which was amended the following year, allows for clawbacks of bonuses and incentive-based compensation paid to an executive or the next 20 highest-paid employees. It applies in cases where financial results are found to have been inaccurate, regardless of whether there was any misconduct. The law only applies to companies that received Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) funds.



In July 2015, a proposed Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rule associated with the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 would allow companies to claw back incentive-based compensation paid to executives in the event of an accounting restatement. The clawback is limited to the excess of what would have been paid under the restated results. The rule would require stock exchanges to prohibit companies that do not have such clawback provisions written into their contracts from listing. This rule has yet to be approved.


   Clawbacks in Private Equity  

The term clawback can also be found in some other settings. In private equity, it refers to the limited partners' right to reclaim part of the general partners' carried interest, in cases where subsequent losses mean the general partners received excess compensation.



Clawbacks are calculated when a fund is liquidated. Medicaid can claw back the costs of care from deceased patients' estates. In some cases, clawbacks may not even refer to money—lawyers can claw back privileged documents accidentally turned over during electronic discovery.






The term clawback also refers to the fall in a stock's price after it increased.


   Examples of Clawback Provisions  

Several proposed and enacted federal laws allow clawbacks of executive compensation based on fraud or accounting errors. Companies may also write clawback provisions into employee contracts, whether such provisions are required by law or not, so that they can take back bonuses that have already been paid out.



There are many examples of clawbacks used by corporations, insurance companies, and the federal government. Below are some of the most common clawback provisions put into place today:



Executive compensation: Clawbacks can be used if an executive breaches an agreement, misuses information, or goes to work for a competitor. 
Life insurance: A provision could dictate that the policy is canceled and payments will need to be returned.
Dividends: These can be clawed back under certain circumstances. 
Government contracts: Contractors may be subject to clawbacks if some requirements of the contract are not met. 
Medicaid: Medicaid can recover any monies paid to care for a Medicaid recipient after they have died.
Pensions: Companies can claw back pensions if there is any evidence of fraud or misuse of information by the pensioner.
What Is the Clayton Antitrust Act?  

The Clayton Antitrust Act is a piece of legislation, passed by the U.S. Congress and signed into law in 1914, that defines unethical business practices, such as price fixing and monopolies, and upholds various rights of labor.



The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) enforce the provisions of the Clayton Antitrust Act, which continue to affect American business practices today.





Key Takeaways

The Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914 continues to regulate U.S. business practices today.Intended to strengthen earlier antitrust legislation, the act prohibits anti-competitive mergers, predatory and discriminatory pricing, and other forms of unethical corporate behavior.The act also protects individuals by allowing lawsuits against companies and upholding the rights of labor to organize and protest peacefully.There have been several amendments to the act, expanding its provisions.The law is jointly enforced by the FTC and DOJ.


   Understanding the Clayton Antitrust Act  

At the turn of the 20th century, a handful of large U.S. corporations began to dominate entire industry segments by engaging in predatory pricing, exclusive dealings, and mergers designed to destroy competitors.



In 1914, Rep. Henry De Lamar Clayton of Alabama introduced legislation to regulate the behavior of massive entities. The bill passed the House of Representatives with a vast majority on June 5, 1914. Then the Senate passed its own version, and a final version, based on deliberation between House and Senate, passed the Senate on Oct. 6 and the House on Oct. 8. President Woodrow Wilson signed the initiative into law on Oct. 15, 1914.



The act is enforced by the FTC and prohibits exclusive sales contracts, certain types of rebates, discriminatory freight agreements, and local price-cutting maneuvers. It also forbids certain types of holding companies. According to the FTC, the Clayton Act also allows private parties to take legal action against companies and seek triple damages when they have been harmed by conduct that violates the Clayton Act. They may also seek and get a court order against any future anti-competitive practice.



In addition, the Clayton Act specifies that labor is not an economic commodity. It upholds issues conducive to organized labor, declaring peaceful strikes, picketing, boycotts, agricultural cooperatives, and labor unions as legal under federal law.


   Sections of the Clayton Antitrust Act  

There are 27 sections to the Clayton Act. The most notable among them are discussed more in-depth below.


  Section Two  

The second section deals with the unlawfulness of price discrimination, price cutting, and predatory pricing. This section prohibits a company from monopolizing or attempting to monopolize any part of interstate commerce. It also makes it illegal for a company to perform anti-competitive practices.


  Section Three  

The third section addresses tying arrangements. A tying arrangement occurs when one party enters into a contract with another, and one of the terms of the arrangement is to not conduct business with a specific third party. This section does not allow companies buying or selling to enter into such agreements.


  Section Four  

The fourth section states the right of private lawsuits. Any individual that has been injured by anything forbidden in the antitrust laws has the right to potential compensation via lawsuit.


  Section Six  

The sixth section covers labor and the exemption of the workforce. The section exempts labor unions and agricultural organizations with the premise that labor of a human being is not a commodity or article of commerce.


  Section Seven  

The seventh section handles mergers and acquisitions and is often referred to when multiple companies attempt to become a single entity. The section prohibits mergers and acquisitions where the end result is less market competition. This section also identifies specific concepts including holding companies that are used through the act.


  Section Eight  

The eighth section handles directors and officers and their board stewardship. The section prohibits directors, officers, or other executives of the corporate structure from serving on multiple boards at the same time in which the boards are for competing firms. This is subject to several exceptions.






The Clayton Antitrust Act mandates that companies that want to merge must notify and receive permission from the government through the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to do so.


   Clayton Antitrust Act Amendments  

The Clayton Act is still in force today, essentially in its original form. However, it has evolved over the years and is different today from when it was first drafted.


  Robinson-Patman Act of 1936  

The Clayton Antitrust Act was somewhat amended by the Robinson-Patman Act of 1936. The Robinson-Patman Act reinforces laws against price discrimination among customers. The law was passed in response to concerns that large retailers were able to negotiate better prices from manufacturers than smaller retailers.



The Robinson-Patman Act involves a variety of practices. For example, the act disallows giving preferential services or allowance to one customer over another. It also prohibits charging different prices for the same product to different geographic areas. Last, the act does not allow for discounts or incentives to be offered based on the condition that a competitor is not to be transacted with.


  Celler-Kefauver Act of 1950  

Another amendment is the Celler-Kefauver Act of 1950. The Celler-Kefauver Act prohibits one company from acquiring the stock or assets of another firm if an acquisition reduces competition. It further extends antitrust laws to cover all types of mergers across industries, not just horizontal ones within the same sector.



The act gives the government authority to block mergers that would allow a company to gain "significant market power", even if the new company technically is not a monopoly. The act also requires companies give the government notice should they meet certain size thresholds.


  Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976  

The Clayton Act was also amended by the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. This amendment requires that companies planning big mergers or acquisitions make their intentions known to the government before taking any such action.



Under the act, companies must file a premerger notification if the transaction is greater than a specific value or if the companies involved have a certain amount of total assets or annual sales. The act also imposes a waiting period of 30 days during which the transaction can't be completed, though this period can be extended should government agencies need more time to review the merger request.


   Provisions of the Clayton Antitrust Act  

Another way to consider the Clayton Antitrust Act is through the lens of the provisions contained in the legislation. Some major highlights of the act via the provisions are below:



Price Discrimination: The Clayton Act prohibits price discrimination. This is the act of selling the same product to different buyers and charging different prices based on who is purchasing the goods. The law prohibits such practices if they substantially lessen competition, as this practice may incidentally create a monopoly.
Tying Agreements: As discussed early, the Clayton Act prohibits tying agreements. Sellers can not require a buyer to buy a product or service under the premise that they cannot transact with another competitor for another product or service. This is done to prevent the seller's competitors from getting a foothold in the market which would reduce market competition.
Mergers and Acquisitions: The Clayton Act gives the FTC the authority to review mergers and acquisitions. This is done to decide whether the merger or acquisition would substantially lessen competition create a monopoly. If the FTC determines that a merger or acquisition would have anti-competitive effects, the FTC can disallow the companies from combining.
Interlocking Directorates: The Clayton Act prohibits interlocking directorates, as discussed above. This is the practice of having the same person serve on the board of directors of two or more competing companies. As that one individual can influence either aspect of the competition to their advantage, this composition is disallowed.
Private Enforcement: The Clayton Act allows private parties to sue for damages resulting from antitrust violations. This allows individuals to seek compensation for damages that arise due to any of the provisions mentioned above.


   Clayton Antitrust Act and Labor Unions  

As mentioned earlier, Section 6 of the Clayton Act provides protections for the right to organize and join labor unions. This section states that no court can stop a workers' strike or organization. This provision is intended to protect collective bargaining rights without interference from employers or the courts.



The Clayton Act also provides some protections for unions and their members against antitrust actions. Section 20 of the Clayton Act provides an exemption from antitrust liability for certain activities by labor unions such as collective bargaining and strikes. This means that, although certain activities would otherwise be considered anticompetitive, these activities may also be necessary to negotiate fair wages and working conditions.



It's important to note that the Clayton Act makes it clear that labor unions are not immune from antitrust liability for all of their activities. For example, if a union goes beyond the boundaries of a collective bargaining agreement, it can still be held liable for price-fixing. In addition, courts can issue injections against unions if their activities threaten to cause damage to property.


   Enforcement of the Clayton Antitrust Act  

The DOJ's Antitrust Division primarily enforces the Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914 in the United States. In some cases, the FTC can enforce the law as well. The FTC and Antitrust Division investigate and prosecute alleged violations of the Clayton Act and other federal antitrust laws, and investigators can conduct investigations on their own or respond to complaints or referrals.



In the event that the Antitrust Division or FTC determines that a Clayton Act violation has occurred, they can take legal action to stop the anticompetitive conduct and seek compensation for any harm suffered. Some remedies include injunctions to stop behavior, divestiture of assets, or imposition of fines or fees.



As discussed earlier, the Clayton Antitrust Act allows for private parties to bring about lawsuits to seek damages for harm they have suffered related to antitrust matters. They may also seek injective relief to stop the behavior from continuing.


   Clayton Antitrust Act vs. Sherman Antitrust Act  

The Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890 was proposed by Sen. John Sherman of Ohio and later amended by the Clayton Antitrust Act. The Sherman Act prohibited trusts and outlawed monopolistic business practices, making them illegal in an effort to bolster competition within the marketplace.



The act contained three sections. The first section defined and banned different types of anti-competitive conduct, the second section addressed the end results considered to be anti-competitive, and the third and final section extended the provisions in the first section to include the District of Columbia and any U.S. territories.



But the language used in the Sherman Act was deemed too vague. This allowed businesses to continue engaging in operations that discouraged competition and fair pricing. These controlling practices directly impacted local concerns and often drove smaller entities out of business, which necessitated the passing of the Clayton Antitrust Act in 1914.



While the Clayton Act continues the Sherman Act’s ban on anti-competitive mergers and the practice of price discrimination, it also addresses issues that the older act didn’t cover by outlawing incipient forms of unethical behavior. For example, while the Sherman Act made monopolies illegal, the Clayton Act bans operations intended to lead to the formation of monopolies.




Is the Clayton Act the Only Piece of Antitrust Legislation?
No. There are three main antitrust laws in the United States. Aside from the Clayton Act, there are also the Sherman Act, The Celler-Kefauver Act, and the Federal Trade Commission Act.




What Is the Clayton Act’s Overall Goal?
The Clayton Act, in conjunction with other antitrust laws, is responsible for making sure that companies behave themselves and that there is fair competition in the marketplace, which, according to economic theory, should lead to lower prices, better quality, greater innovation, and wider choice.




Is the Clayton Act Necessary?
Most people agree that these types of antitrust laws benefit society. If companies were given free rein to make profits by any means necessary, it would likely prove detrimental to everyone other than the company that came out on top.There are, however, many people who oppose antitrust laws like the Clayton Act. In their view, allowing businesses to compete without restraints and to fully capitalize on their market power would ultimately prove favorable to consumers and the economy.




What Are the 4 Main Points of the Clayton Antitrust Act?
The Clayton Antitrust Act targeted four anti-competitive practices in particular:mergers,acquisitions,interlocking board directorates, andprice price discrimination


   The Bottom Line  

While America is touted as a free market economy, there are several federal laws and regulations that prohibit anti-competitive practices and prevent the formation of monopolies. Among these pieces of legislation is the Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914, which made certain monopolistic practices illegal, enforceable by both the Federal Trade Commission and Dept. of Justice. Since then, other pieces of antitrust legislation have also been passed in order to promote competition, encourage fair practices, and benefit consumers.
What Is Clearing?  

Clearing is the procedure by which financial trades settle; that is, the correct and timely transfer of funds to the seller and securities to the buyer. Often with clearing, a specialized organization acts as the intermediary and assumes the role of tacit buyer and seller to reconcile orders between transacting parties.



Clearing is necessary for the matching of all buy and sell orders in the market. It provides smoother and more efficient markets as parties can make transfers to the clearing corporation rather than to each individual party with whom they transact.





Key Takeaways

Clearing is the correct and timely transfer of funds to the seller and securities to the buyer.A specialized organization often acts as an intermediary known as a clearinghouse and assumes the role of tacit buyer and seller to reconcile orders between transacting parties.Clearing is necessary to match all buy and sell orders to ensure smoother and more efficient markets.When trades don't clear, the resulting out trades can cause real monetary losses.The clearing process protects the parties involved in a transaction by recording the details and validating the availability of funds.


   How Clearing Works  

Clearing is the process of reconciling purchases and sales of various options, futures, or securities, and the direct transfer of funds from one financial institution to another. The process validates the availability of the appropriate funds, records the transfer, and in the case of securities, ensures the delivery of the security to the buyer. Non-cleared trades can result in settlement risk, and, if trades do not clear, accounting errors will arise where real money can be lost.



An out trade is a trade that cannot be placed because it was received by an exchange with conflicting information. The associated clearinghouse cannot settle the trade because the data submitted by parties on both sides of the transaction is inconsistent or contradictory.



Stock exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the NASDAQ, have clearing firms. They ensure that stock traders have enough money in their account, whether using cash or broker-provided margin, to fund the trades they are taking. The clearing division of these exchanges acts as the middleman, helping facilitate the smooth transfer of funds.



When an investor sells a stock they own, they want to know that the money will be delivered to them. The clearing firms make sure this happens. Similarly, when someone buys a stock, they need to be able to afford it. The clearing firm makes sure that the appropriate amount of funds is set aside for trade settlement when someone buys stocks.


   Clearing Banks  

Clearing can have a variety of meanings depending on the instrument with which it is associated. In the case of check clearing, this is the process involved in transferring the funds promised on the check to the recipient's account. Some banks place holds on funds deposited by check since the transfer is not instantaneous and may require time to process.



The Federal Reserve Banks provide check collection services to depository institutions. When a depository institution receives a check drawn on another institution, it may send the check for collection to the institution directly, deliver the check to the institution through a local clearinghouse exchange, or use the check-collection services of a correspondent institution or a Federal Reserve Bank.






Most of the checks the Federal Reserve Banks receives are collected and settled within one business day.


   Clearinghouses  

For futures and options, a clearinghouse functions as an intermediary for the transaction, acting as the implicit counterparty to both the buyer and seller of the future or option. This extends to the securities market, where the stock exchange validates the trade of the securities through to settlement.



Clearinghouses charge a fee for their services, known as a clearing fee. When an investor pays a commission to the broker, this clearing fee is often already included in that commission amount. This fee supports the centralizing and reconciling of transactions and facilitates the proper delivery of purchased investments.



When a clearinghouse encounters an out trade, it gives the counterparties a chance to reconcile the discrepancy independently. If the parties can resolve the matter, they resubmit the trade to the clearinghouse for appropriate settlement. But, if they cannot agree on the terms of the trade, then the matter is sent to the appropriate exchange committee for arbitration.


  Automated Clearing House  

An automated clearing house (ACH) is an electronic system used for the transfer of funds between entities, often referred to as an electronic funds transfer (EFT). The ACH performs the role of intermediary, processing the sending/receiving of validated funds between institutions.



An ACH is often used for the direct deposit of employee salaries and can be used to transfer funds between an individual and a business in exchange for goods and services.



Traditionally, the sending and receiving bank account information needs to be provided, including the account and routing numbers, to facilitate the transaction. This process may also be seen as an electronic check, as it provides the same information as a written check.


   Example of Clearing  

As a hypothetical example, assume that one trader buys an index futures contract. The initial margin required to hold this trade overnight is $6,160. This amount is held as a "good faith" assurance that the trader can afford the trade. This money is held by the clearing firm, within the trader's account, and can't be used for other trades. This helps offset any losses the trader may experience while in a trade.



This process helps reduce the risk to individual traders. For example, if two people agree to trade, and there is no one else to verify and back the trade, it is possible that one party could back out of the agreement or experience financial trouble and be unable to produce the funds to hold up their end of the bargain.



The clearing firm takes this risk away from the individual trader. Each trader knows that the clearing firm will be collecting enough funds from all trading parties, so they don't need to worry about credit or default risk of the person on the other side of the transaction.




What Is Clearing in the Banking System?
Clearing in the banking system is the process of settling transactions between banks. Millions of transactions occur every day, so bank clearing tries to minimize the amounts that change hands on a given day. For example, if Bank A owes Bank B $2 million in cleared checks, But Bank B owes Bank A $1 million, Bank A only pays Bank B $1 million.




Which Banks Are Clearing Banks in the United States?
Clearing banks in the United States include the following: Bank of America; Bank of the West; Barclays; The Bank of New York Mellon; BB&T; Capital One; Citi; Citizens; Comeria; Deutsche Bank; AG Consultants, Fifth Third Bank; HSBC; JP Morgan Chase; Key Bank; M&T Bank; MUFG Union Bank; PNC; Regions Bank; Santander; State Street; SunTrust; TD Bank; UBS; U.S. Bank; and Wells Fargo.




What Is an Example of a Clearinghouse?
An example of a clearinghouse is the London Clearing House, which is the biggest derivatives clearing house followed by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Clearing firms are typically big investment banks, such as JP Morgan, Deutsche Bank, and HSBC.




What Is a Clearing Process?
Clearing is the process of reconciling an options, futures, or securities transaction or the direct transfer of funds from one financial institution to another. The process validates the availability of the appropriate funds, records the transfer, and in the case of securities, ensures the delivery of the security or funds to the buyer.


   The Bottom Line  

The process of clearing ensures that the entities or parties engaged in a financial transaction are protected, receive their due amount, and the transaction goes smoothly. The clearinghouse acts as a third party or mediator for the transaction while the clearing process records the details of the transaction and validates the availability of funds.
The Clearinghouse: An Overview  

A clearinghouse is a designated intermediary between a buyer and seller in a financial market. The clearinghouse validates and finalizes the transaction, ensuring that both the buyer and the seller honor their contractual obligations.



Every financial market has a designated clearinghouse or an internal clearing division to handle this function.


   Understanding the Clearinghouse  

The responsibilities of a clearinghouse include "clearing" or finalizing trades, settling trading accounts, collecting margin payments, regulating delivery of the assets to their new owners, and reporting trading data.



Clearinghouses act as third parties for futures and options contracts, as buyers to every clearing member seller, and as sellers to every clearing member buyer.



The clearinghouse enters the picture after a buyer and a seller execute a trade. Its role is to accomplish the steps that finalize, and therefore validate, the transaction. In acting as a middleman, the clearinghouse provides the security and efficiency that is integral to stability in a financial market.



In order to act efficiently, a clearinghouse takes the opposite position of each trade, which greatly reduces the cost and risk of settling multiple transactions among multiple parties. While their mandate is to reduce risk, the fact that they have to act as both buyer and seller at the inception of a trade means that they are subject to default risk from both parties. To mitigate this, clearinghouses impose margin requirements.


  The Clearinghouse in the Futures Market  

The futures market is highly dependent on the clearinghouse since its financial products are leveraged. That is, they typically involve borrowing in order to invest, a process that requires a stable intermediary.



Each exchange has its own clearinghouse. All members of an exchange are required to clear their trades through the clearinghouse at the end of each trading session and to deposit with the clearinghouse a sum of money, based on the clearinghouse's margin requirements, that is sufficient to cover the member's debit balance.





Key Takeaways

A clearinghouse or clearing division is an intermediary between a buyer and a seller in a financial market.In acting as the middleman, the clearinghouse provides the security and efficiency that is integral for financial market stability.To mitigate default risk in futures trading, clearinghouses impose margin requirements.


  Futures Clearing House Example  

Assume that a trader buys a futures contract. At this point, the clearinghouse has already set the initial and maintenance margin requirements.



The initial margin can be viewed as a good faith assurance that the trader can afford to hold the trade until it is closed. These funds are held by the clearing firm but within the trader's account, and can't be used for other trades. The intention is to offset any losses the trader may experience in the transaction.



The maintenance margin, usually a fraction of the initial margin requirement, is the amount that must be available in a trader's account to keep the trade open. If the trader's account equity drops below this threshold, the account holder will receive a margin call demanding that the account be replenished to the level that satisfies the initial margin requirements.



If the trader fails to meet the margin call, the trade will be closed since the account cannot reasonably withstand further losses.



In this example, the clearinghouse has ensured that there is sufficient money in the account to cover any losses that the account holder may suffer in the trade. Once the trade is closed, the remaining margin funds are released to the trader. 



The process has helped reduce default risk. In its absence, one party could back out of the agreement or fail to produce money owed at the end of the transaction.



In general, this is termed transactional risk and is obviated by the involvement of a clearinghouse.


  Stock Market Clearinghouses  

Stock exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) have clearing divisions that ensure that a stock trader has enough money in an account to fund the trades being placed. The clearing division acts as the middle man, helping facilitate the smooth transfer of the stock shares and the money.



An investor who sells stock shares needs to know that the money will be delivered. The clearing divisions make sure this happens.




What is a Clearinghouse?
A ClearingHouse is a intermediary between a buyer and a seller in the financial markets, whose job is to ensure that both parties honor their obligations.




What is the Difference Between a Broker and a Clearinghouse?
A broker is a person or entity through with customers can access the financial markets and place trades. The clearinghouse handles the back office operations after the trade is placed, ensuring the trade is cleared.




Can a Clearinghouse Fail?
While it is technically possible for a clearinghouse to fail, under the Dodd-Frank Act, regulators are authorized to designate clearinghouses as systemically important to the smooth functioning of financial markets and to step in to provide emergency funding is so required.


   The Bottom Line  

Clearinghouses are essential to the smooth functioning of the financial markets, They act as intermediaries, between the buyer and seller ensuring the smooth functioning of the markets.
What Is a Close Position?  

Closing a position refers to executing a security transaction that is the exact opposite of an open position, thereby nullifying it and eliminating the initial exposure. Closing a long position in a security would entail selling it, while closing a short position in a security would involve buying it back. Taking offsetting positions in swaps is also very common to eliminate exposure prior to maturity.



Closing a position is also known as "position squaring."





Key Takeaways

Closing a position refers to canceling out an existing position in the market by taking the opposite position. In a short sale, this would mean buying back the security, while a long position entails selling the security.A closing transaction is generally initiated by a trader but, in some instances, it may also be forced closed by brokerage firms if certain conditions are met.


   Understanding Close Positions  

When trades and investors transact in the market, they are opening and closing positions. The initial position that an investor takes on a security is an open position, and this could be either taking a long position or short position on the asset. In order to get out of the position, it needs to be closed. A long will sell to close; a short will buy to close.



Closing a position thus involves the opposite action that opened the position in the first place. An investor who purchased Microsoft (MSFT) shares, for example, holds those securities in his account. When he sells the shares, he closes the long position on MSFT.



The difference between the price at which the position in a security was opened and the price at which it was closed represents the gross profit or loss on that security position. Positions can be closed for any number of reasons—to take profits or stem losses, reduce exposure, generate cash, etc. An investor who wants to offset his capital gains tax liability, for example, will close his position on a losing security in order to realize or harvest a loss.



The time period between the opening and closing of a position in a security indicates the holding period for the security. This holding period may vary widely, depending on the investor's preference and the type of security. For example, day traders generally close out trading positions on the same day that they were opened, while a long-term investor may close out a long position in a blue-chip stock many years after the position was first opened.



It may not be necessary for the investor to initiate closing positions for securities that have finite maturity or expiry dates, such as bonds and options. In such cases, the closing position is automatically generated upon maturity of the bond or expiry of the option.


   Special Considerations  

While most closing positions are undertaken at the discretion of investors, positions are sometimes closed involuntarily or by force. For example, a long position in a stock held in a margin account may be closed out by a brokerage firm if the stock declines steeply, and the investor is unable to put in the additional margin required. Likewise, a short position may be subject to a buy-in in the event of a short squeeze.



A close position might be partial or full. If the security is illiquid, the investor may not be able to close all his positions at once at the limit price specified. Also, an investor may purposely close only a portion of his position. For example, a crypto trader that has an open position on three XBT (token for Bitcoin), may close his position on only one token. To do this, he will enter a sell order for one XBT, leaving him with two open positions on the cryptocurrency.


   Example of a Closed Position  

Suppose an investor has taken a long position on stock ABC and is expecting its price to increase 1.5 times from the date of his investment. The investor will close out his investment, after the price reaches the desired level, by selling the stock.
What Is a Closed Economy?  

A closed economy typically refers to a country that does not trade or engage in other financial exchanges with any other country. That means no imports come into the country and no exports leave it. The goal of a closed economy is complete self-sufficiency, providing domestic consumers with everything they need from within the country's own borders. In today's interconnected world, closed economies are more of a theoretical concept than a reality, although some economies are more closed than others.





Key Takeaways

A closed economy refers to a country that produces all of its own goods and services and doesn't participate in international trade.Closed economies are virtually nonexistent today, although some countries come closer than others to having one.Even in countries with relatively open economies, governments may close off a specific sector or industry from international competition through the use of quotas, subsidies, and tariffs—a practice often referred to as protectionism.


   Why There Are No Real Closed Economies Today  

The trend toward globalization in recent decades suggests that governments are becoming more open to participating in international trade. Closed economies are counterintuitive to modern economic theory, which promotes the opening of domestic markets to international trade to capitalize on comparative advantages, ideally to the benefit of all citizens. By allocating labor and other resources to their most productive, efficient operations, companies and individuals can increase their wealth, the theory maintains.



In addition, according to the international Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), "Relatively open economies grow faster than relatively closed ones, and salaries and working conditions are generally better in companies that trade than in those that do not. More prosperity and opportunity around the world also helps promote greater stability and security for everyone."



Potential advantages aside, maintaining a genuinely closed economy is difficult in modern society, in part because raw materials play a vital role in everyday life and in the production of finished goods. Many countries that are powerhouses when it comes to manufacturing and exporting do not have all the necessary raw materials locally and have no choice but to import them.



For instance, in 2021, according to World's Top Exports, an independent research and educational website, the five biggest importers of crude oil were:



China: $229.3 billion (22.3% of the total)United States: $138.4 billion (13.5%)India: $106.4 billion (10.4%)South Korea: $67 billion (6.5%)Japan: $63.1 billion (6.1%)



The United States, in fact, is both an importer and an exporter of crude oil, importing about 6.11 million barrels a day from other countries, while at the same time exporting about 2.90 million barrels a day, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.



A more dramatic example, now and in the future, may be lithium, a metal that has become integral to the production of the batteries that power electric vehicles. The U.S. and many other industrialized nations have very limited lithium reserves and must rely on others for their supply. In fact, Australia, Latin America, and China collectively accounted for 98% of the world's lithium production in 2020, according to McKinsey & Co.


   Why Close Off an Economy?  

Although totally closed economies are essentially nonexistent today, governments may still close off a specific industry or sector of their economy from international competition. Some oil-producing countries, for example, have a history of prohibiting foreign petroleum firms from doing business within their borders.



The argument in favor of a partially closed economy is that a completely open one runs the risk of becoming overly dependent on imports, resulting in a severely lopsided balance of trade. Also, domestic producers may suffer because they cannot compete at low international prices. Therefore, governments may use trade controls like tariffs, subsidies, and quotas to support domestic enterprises. This policy is often referred to as protectionism.



The United States, for example, which has relatively low tariffs overall, imposed a 25% tariff on steel imports and a 10% tariff on aluminum imports in 2018, in the name of protecting domestic producers from unfair foreign competition, particularly from China. In 2022, those rules were amended.


   Measuring How Closed an Economy Is  

One way to assess the degree to which an economy is open or closed is by measuring the country's imports and exports as a percentage of its gross domestic product (GDP).



By that measure, the African nation of Sudan may have the most closed economy today. Using the most recently available figures, imports represent just 1.9% of Sudan's GDP, while exports represent 2.3%. In the U.S., by comparison, those figures are 13.3% and 10.2% respectively.




What Does Balance of Trade Mean?
The term balance of trade refers to the value of a country's imports as compared to the value of its ports. A country that imports more that it exports will have a trade deficit, while one that exports more than it imports will have a trade surplus.




What Is the Difference Between a Tariff and a Quota?
A tariff imposes a tax on a particular good coming in from another country, while a quota limits the quantity of such goods.




What Is a Trade Subsidy?
A trade subsidy is a financial benefit that a government provides to a company or industry in order to make its products more competitive at home and in international markets.


   The Bottom Line  

No country today appears to have a completely closed economy. But some are more closed than others. Countries with relatively closed economies rely less on imports and exports than those with more open economies, attempting to produce whatever goods and services they require from within their own borders. Economists generally believe that relatively open economies are more beneficial for their citizens, and the world at large, than relatively closed ones.
What Is a Closed-End Fund?  

A closed-end fund is a type of mutual fund that issues a fixed number of shares through a single initial public offering (IPO) to raise capital for its initial investments. Its shares can then be bought and sold on a stock exchange but no new shares will be created and no new money will flow into the fund.



In contrast, an open-ended fund, such as most mutual funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs), accepts a constant flow of new investment capital. It issues new shares and buys back its own shares on demand.



Many municipal bond funds and some global investment funds are closed-end funds.





Key Takeaways

The initial capital for a closed-end fund is raised through a one-time offering of a limited number of shares in the fund.The shares may then be bought and sold on a public stock exchange but no new shares can be created.Closed-end funds are usually actively managed, unlike index mutual funds and ETFs, and typically concentrate on a single industry, sector, or region.






   Understanding Closed-End Funds  

Like many mutual funds, a closed-end fund has a professional manager overseeing the portfolio and actively buying, selling, and holding assets.



Like any stock or ETF, its shares fluctuate in price throughout the trading day. However, the closed-end fund's parent company will issue no additional shares, and the fund itself won't buy back shares—as opposed to an interval fund which will buy back shares.



Closed-end funds and open-end mutual funds have many similarities. Both make distributions of income and capital gains to their shareholders. Both charge an annual expense ratio for their services. Moreover, the companies that offer them must be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).


  Differences Between Closed-End Funds and Open-End Funds  

Closed-end funds differ from open-ended funds in fundamental ways. As noted, a closed-end fund raises a prescribed amount of capital in a one-time offering of a fixed number of shares. Once the shares are sold the offering is "closed."



Most mutual funds and exchange-traded funds constantly accept new investor dollars, issuing additional shares, and redeeming—or buying back—shares from shareholders who wish to sell.



A closed-end fund lists on a stock exchange where the shares trade just like stocks throughout the trading day.



Open-end mutual funds price their shares only once a day, at the end of the trading day, basing the price on the net asset value of the portfolio. The stock price of a closed-end fund fluctuates according to the usual forces of supply and demand and the changing values of the fund's holdings.



Because they trade exclusively in the secondary markets, closed-end funds require a brokerage account to buy and sell. Open-end funds can usually be purchased directly through the fund's sponsoring investment company.





Pros

Diversified portfolio
Professional management
Transparent pricing
Potential for higher yields



Cons

Subject to volatility
Less liquid than open-end funds
Available only through brokers
May get heavily discounted





  Closed-End Funds and Net Asset Value (NAV)  

Its pricing is one of the unique characteristics of a closed-end fund. The NAV of the fund is calculated regularly, based on the value of the assets in the fund. However, the price that it trades for on the exchange is market-driven. This means that a closed-end fund can trade at a premium or a discount to its NAV. (A premium price means the price of a share is above the NAV, while a discount is the opposite, below NAV, value.)



There are several reasons for this. A fund's market price may rise because it is focused on a sector that is currently popular with investors, or because its manager is well regarded among investors. Or, a history of underperformance or volatility may make investors wary of the fund, driving down its share value.


  Closed-End Fund Performance  

Closed-end funds do not repurchase their shares from investors. That means they don't have to maintain a large cash reserve level, leaving them with more money to invest.



They can also make heavy use of leverage—borrowed money—to boost their returns.



As a result, closed-end funds may be able to offer higher overall returns than their open-fund mutual fund counterparts.


   Examples of Closed-End Funds  

The largest type of closed-end fund, as measured by assets under management, is the municipal bond fund. These large funds invest in the debt obligations of state and local governments and federal government agencies. Managers of these funds often seek broad diversification to minimize risk, but also may rely on leverage to maximize returns.



Managers also build closed-end global, international funds, and emerging markets funds that mix stocks and fixed-income instruments. (Global funds combine U.S. and international securities. International funds purchase only non-U.S. securities. Emerging markets funds focus on fast-growing and volatile foreign sectors and regions.)



One of the largest closed-end funds is the Eaton Vance Tax-Managed Global Diversified Equity Income Fund (EXG). Founded in 2007, it had a market cap of $2.5 billion as of June 2022. The primary investment objective is to provide current income and gains, with a secondary objective of capital appreciation.




What Are the Advantages of a Closed-End Fund?
You have two potential ways to make money with a closed-end fund: You can enjoy the income or growth that is produced by the fund's investments. And, you may be able to buy shares of the fund at a discount to its net asset value (NAV).An open-end mutual fund calculates its NAV as the real current value of the investments that are owned by the fund. Shares of a closed-end fund trade throughout the day on a stock exchange, and that market-driven price may differ from its NAV.




How Are Closed-End Funds Different From Open-End Funds?
An open-end mutual fund issues new shares whenever an investor chooses to buy into it, and buy them back when they're available.A closed-end fund issues shares only once. The only way to get into the fund later is to buy some of those existing shares on the open market.Notably, closed-end funds make frequent use of leverage, or borrowed money, to boost their returns to investors. That means higher potential rewards in good times and higher potential risks in bad times.One thing that closed-end and open-end funds have in common: fees. Most closed-end funds are actively managed and charge relatively high fees compared to index funds and ETFs.
What Is Cloud Computing?  

Cloud computing is the delivery of different services through the Internet. These resources include tools and applications like data storage, servers, databases, networking, and software.



Rather than keeping files on a proprietary hard drive or local storage device, cloud-based storage makes it possible to save them to a remote database. As long as an electronic device has access to the web, it has access to the data and the software programs to run it.



Cloud computing is a popular option for people and businesses for a number of reasons including cost savings, increased productivity, speed and efficiency, performance, and security.





Key Takeaways

Cloud computing is the delivery of different services through the Internet, including data storage, servers, databases, networking, and software.Cloud storage has grown increasingly popular among individuals who need larger storage space and for businesses seeking an efficient off-site data back-up solution.Cloud-based storage makes it possible to save files to a remote database and retrieve them on demand.Services can be both public and private—public services are provided online for a fee while private services are hosted on a network to specific clients.Cloud security has become an increasingly important field in IT.


   Understanding Cloud Computing  

Cloud computing is named as such because the information being accessed is found remotely in the cloud or a virtual space. Companies that provide cloud services enable users to store files and applications on remote servers and then access all the data via the Internet. This means the user is not required to be in a specific place to gain access to it, allowing the user to work remotely.



Cloud computing takes all the heavy lifting involved in crunching and processing data away from the device you carry around or sit and work at. It also moves all of that work to huge computer clusters far away in cyberspace. The Internet becomes the cloud, and voilà—your data, work, and applications are available from any device with which you can connect to the Internet, anywhere in the world.



Cloud computing can be both public and private. Public cloud services provide their services over the Internet for a fee. Private cloud services, on the other hand, only provide services to a certain number of people. These services are a system of networks that supply hosted services. There is also a hybrid option, which combines elements of both the public and private services.


   Types of Cloud Services  

Regardless of the kind of service, cloud computing services provide users with a series of functions including:



EmailStorage, backup, and data retrievalCreating and testing appsAnalyzing dataAudio and video streamingDelivering software on demand



Cloud computing is still a fairly new service but is being used by a number of different organizations from big corporations to small businesses, nonprofits to government agencies, and even individual consumers.


   Deployment Models  

There are various types of clouds, each of which is different from the other. Public clouds provide their services on servers and storage on the Internet. These are operated by third-party companies, who handle and control all the hardware, software, and the general infrastructure. Clients access services through accounts that can be accessed by just about anyone.



Private clouds are reserved for specific clientele, usually one business or organization. The firm's data service center may host the cloud computing service. Many private cloud computing services are provided on a private network.



Hybrid clouds are, as the name implies, a combination of both public and private services. This type of model allows the user more flexibility and helps optimize the user's infrastructure and security.






Newer forms of cloud computing services include the community cloud, the big data cloud, and the multicloud.


   Types of Cloud Computing  

Cloud computing is not a single piece of technology like a microchip or a cellphone. Rather, it's a system primarily comprised of three services: software-as-a-service (SaaS), infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS), and platform-as-a-service (PaaS).



Software-as-a-service (SaaS) involves the licensure of a software application to customers. Licenses are typically provided through a pay-as-you-go model or on-demand. This type of system can be found in Microsoft Office's 365.
Infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) involves a method for delivering everything from operating systems to servers and storage through IP-based connectivity as part of an on-demand service. Clients can avoid the need to purchase software or servers, and instead procure these resources in an outsourced, on-demand service. Popular examples of the IaaS system include IBM Cloud and Microsoft Azure.
Platform-as-a-service (PaaS) is considered the most complex of the three layers of cloud-based computing. PaaS shares some similarities with SaaS, the primary difference being that instead of delivering software online, it is actually a platform for creating software that is delivered via the Internet. This model includes platforms like Salesforce.com and Heroku. 


   Advantages of Cloud Computing   

Cloud-based software offers companies from all sectors a number of benefits, including the ability to use software from any device either via a native app or a browser. As a result, users can carry their files and settings over to other devices in a completely seamless manner.



Cloud computing is far more than just accessing files on multiple devices. Thanks to cloud computing services, users can check their email on any computer and even store files using services such as Dropbox and Google Drive. Cloud computing services also make it possible for users to back up their music, files, and photos, ensuring those files are immediately available in the event of a hard drive crash.



It also offers big businesses huge cost-saving potential. Before the cloud became a viable alternative, companies were required to purchase, construct, and maintain costly information management technology and infrastructure. Companies can swap costly server centers and IT departments for fast Internet connections, where employees interact with the cloud online to complete their tasks.



The cloud structure allows individuals to save storage space on their desktops or laptops. It also lets users upgrade software more quickly because software companies can offer their products via the web rather than through more traditional, tangible methods involving discs or flash drives. For example, Adobe customers can access applications in its Creative Cloud through an Internet-based subscription. This allows users to download new versions and fixes to their programs easily.


   Disadvantages of the Cloud  

With all of the speed, efficiencies, and innovations that come with cloud computing, there are, naturally, risks.



Security has always been a big concern with the cloud especially when it comes to sensitive medical records and financial information. While regulations force cloud computing services to shore up their security and compliance measures, it remains an ongoing issue. Encryption protects vital information, but if that encryption key is lost, the data disappears.



Servers maintained by cloud computing companies may fall victim to natural disasters, internal bugs, and power outages, too. The geographical reach of cloud computing cuts both ways: A blackout in California could paralyze users in New York, and a firm in Texas could lose its data if something causes its Maine-based provider to crash.



As with any technology, there is a learning curve for both employees and managers. But with many individuals accessing and manipulating information through a single portal, inadvertent mistakes can transfer across an entire system.


   The World of Business  

Businesses can employ cloud computing in different ways. Some users maintain all apps and data on the cloud, while others use a hybrid model, keeping certain apps and data on private servers and others on the cloud.



When it comes to providing services, the big players in the corporate computing sphere include:



Google Cloud
Amazon Web Services (AWS)
Microsoft Azure
IBM Cloud
Alibaba Cloud



Amazon Web Services is 100% public and includes a pay-as-you-go, outsourced model. Once you’re on the platform you can sign up for apps and additional services. Microsoft Azure allows clients to keep some data at their own sites. Meanwhile, Alibaba Cloud is a subsidiary of the Alibaba Group.




What Is an Example of Cloud Computing?
Today, there are several examples of cloud computing applications used by both businesses and individuals. One type of cloud service would be streaming platforms for audio or video, where the actual media files are stored remotely. Another would be data storage platforms like Google Drive, Dropbox, OneDrive, or Box.




What Are the Main Types of Cloud Computing?
The main types of cloud computing services include Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), Platforms-as-a-Service (PaaS), and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS).IaaS provides IT infrastructure to end-users via the internet and is commonly associated with serverless computing.PaaS serves both software and hardware to end-users, who are generally software developers. PaaS allows the user to develop, run, and manage their own apps without having to build and maintain the infrastructure.SaaS is a software licensing model, which allows access to software on a subscription basis using external servers without having to download and install them locally.




Is Cloud Computing Safe?
Because software and data are stored remotely in cloud computing, data security and platform security are a big concern. Cloud security refers to the measures undertaken to protect digital assets and data stored on cloud-based services. Measures to protect this data include two-factor authorization (2FA), the use of VPNs, security tokens, data encryption, and firewall services, among others.
What Is the CBOE Options Exchange?  

Founded in 1973, the CBOE Options Exchange is the world's largest options exchange with contracts focusing on individual equities, indexes, and interest rates.



Originally known as the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE), the exchange changed its name in 2017 as part of a rebranding effort by its holding company, CBOE Global Markets. Traders refer to the exchange as the CBOE ("see-bo"). CBOE is also the originator of the CBOE Volatility Index (VIX), the most widely used and recognized proxy for market volatility.





Key Takeaways

The CBOE is an important options exchange based in Chicago, founded in 1973.The CBOE Options Exchange was previously the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE).In 2010 the exchange incorporated as a holding company with the exchange as its main asset.In 2017 the holding company and exchange rebranded as CBOE Global Markets Inc. and the CBOE Options Exchange, respectively.CBOE is home to the VIX volatility index and many other volatility instruments.


   Understanding the CBOE Options Exchange  

CBOE offers trading across multiple asset classes and geographies, including options, futures, U.S. and European equities, exchange-traded products (ETPs), global foreign exchange(FX), and multi-asset volatility products. It is the largest options exchange in the U.S. and the largest stock exchange in Europe, by value traded. It is the second-largest stock exchange operator in the U.S. and a top global market for ETP trading.



The exchange has a rich history, including the creation of the CBOE Clearing Corp., which later became the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC), the industry clearinghouse for all U.S. options trades.



The business of the CBOE goes beyond simple trade executions, and in 1985 it formed The Options Institute, its educational arm, developed to educate investors around the world about options. In addition, the company offers seminars, webinars, and online courses, including learning for professionals.


   CBOE Products  

The exchange offers access to many diverse products, starting with, of course, put and call options on thousands of publicly traded stocks, as well as on exchange traded funds (ETFs) and exchange traded notes (ETNs). Investors typically use these products for hedging and income production through the selling of covered calls or cash-secured puts.



There are options available on stock and sector indexes, including the Standard & Poor's 500, S&P 100, Dow Jones Industrial Average, Russell indexes, selected FTSE indexes, Nasdaq Indexes, MSCI Indexes, and sector indexes including the 10 sectors contained within the S&P 500.



The exchange offers social media indexes and specialty indexes covering several options strategies, such as "put write," butterfly, and collar.



Finally, the VIX index is the premier barometer of equity market volatility. This Index is based on real-time prices of near-the-money options on the S&P 500 Index (SPX) and is designed to reflect investors' consensus view of future (30-day) expected stock market volatility. Traders call the VIX Index the "fear gauge" because it tends to spike to very high levels when investors believe the market is very bearish or unstable.



The VIX Index is also the flagship index of the CBOE Global Markets' volatility franchise. This includes volatility indexes on broad-based stock indexes, ETFs, individual stocks, commodities, and other specialty indexes.






The CBOE created the VIX Index in 1993. It has since become the de facto barometer of U.S. equity market volatility.




How Many Options Contracts Trade on the CBOE?
In Q1 2022, total volume across CBOE's options exchanges reached 830.3 million options contracts, a record amount. Quarterly average daily volume (ADV) also reached a new all-time high of 13.4 million contracts traded per day.




When Were Put Options First Listed on the CBOE?
When the CBOE launched in 1973, it only listed call options. It was not until 1977 that the exchange added put options as well.




When Were LEAP Options First Listed on the CBOE?
LEAPs (Long-Term AnticiPation Securities) are long-dated options listed on exchanges, with expirations longer than one year and up to three or more years. The CBOE first introduced listed LEAP trading in 1990.



Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME)?  

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), colloquially known as the Chicago Merc, is an organized exchange for the trading of futures and options. The CME trades futures, and in most cases options, in the sectors of agriculture, energy, stock indices, foreign exchange, interest rates, metals, real estate, and even weather.





Key Takeaways

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange, or Merc, is an organized exchange for trading futures and options.CME was originally called the Chicago Butter and Egg Board and was used for trading agricultural products, such as wheat and corn.In the 1970s the CME added financial futures, followed shortly by precious metals, Treasuries, and other assets.In 2007, the CME merged with the Chicago Board of Trade to create CME Group, one of the world's largest financial exchange operators. CME Group now owns several other exchanges in different cities.Nowadays, CME is also known for trading unusual commodities like Bitcoin futures and weather derivatives.






   Understanding the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME)  

Founded in 1898, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange began life as the "Chicago Butter and Egg Board" before changing its name in 1919. It was the first financial exchange to "demutualize" and become a publicly traded, shareholder-owned corporation in 2000.



The CME launched its first futures contracts in 1961 on frozen pork bellies. In 1969, it added financial futures and currency contracts followed by the first interest rate, bond, and futures contracts in 1972.


   Creation of CME Group  

In 2007, a merger with the Chicago Board of Trade created the CME Group, one of the largest financial exchanges in the world. In 2008, the CME acquired NYMEX Holdings, Inc., the parent of the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) and Commodity Exchange, Inc (COMEX). By 2010, the CME purchased a 90% interest in the Dow Jones stock and financial indexes.



The CME grew again in 2012 with the purchase of the Kansas City Board of Trade, the dominant player in hard red winter wheat. In late 2017, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange began trading in Bitcoin futures.



According to the CME Group, on average it handles 3 billion contracts worth approximately $1 quadrillion annually. In 2021 CME Group ended open outcry trading for most commodities, although outcry trading continues in the Eurodollar options pit. Additionally, the CME Group operates CME Clearing, a leading central counterparty clearing provider.





$1 quadrillion

The approximate total value of all CME contracts in one year.


   CME Futures and Risk Management  

With uncertainties always present in the world, there is a demand that money managers and commercial entities have tools at their disposal to hedge their risk and lock in prices that are critical for business activities. Futures allow sellers of the underlying commodities to know with certainty the price they will receive for their products at the market. At the same time, it will enable consumers or buyers of those underlying commodities to know with certainty the price they will pay at a defined time in the future.



While these commercial entities use futures for hedging, speculators often take the other side of the trade hoping to profit from changes in the price of the underlying commodity. Speculators assume the risk that the commercials hedge. A large family of futures exchanges such as the CME Group provides a regulated, liquid, centralized forum to carry out such business. Also, the CME Group provides settlement, clearing, and reporting functions that allow for a smooth trading venue.






CME is one of the only regulated markets for trading in Bitcoin futures.


   CME Regulation  

CME is regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which oversees all commodities and derivatives contracts in the United States. The CFTC is responsible for oversight of brokers and merchants, conducts risk surveillance of derivatives trades, and investigates market manipulation and other abusive trade practices. It also regulates trading in virtual assets, such as Bitcoin.


   Chicago Mercantile Exchange vs. Chicago Board of Trade  

The Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) is another Chicago-based futures exchange, founded in 1848. The CBOT originally focused on agricultural products, such as wheat, corn, and soybeans; it later expanded to financial products such as gold, silver, U.S. Treasury bonds, and energy. The CME merged with the CBOT in 2006, in a move approved by shareholders of both organizations.


   Example of Chicago Mercantile Exchange  

Most commodities can be traded anywhere, but there's one you can only trade at the CME: weather. CME is the only futures exchange to offer derivatives based on weather events, allowing traders to bet on cold temperatures, sunshine, or rainfall. In 2020, the CME traded as many as 1,000 weather-related contracts per day. The total notional value of futures totaled $750 million, while the total notional value of options totaled $480 million.




How Active Is the Chicago Mercantile Exchange?
The CME is the largest futures and options exchange by daily volume. According to CME Group, the exchange handles 3 billion contracts per year, worth approximately $1 quadrillion.




How Big Is the Chicago Mercantile Exchange?
As of March 2022, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange reported almost $206 billion of total assets and just over $178 billion of liabilities. At the end of 2021, CME group had 3,480 employees and offices in more than 15 countries.




How Much Money Does the Chicago Mercantile Exchange Make?
Through the first quarter of 2022, CME had generated $711 million of net income, approximately $136 million more than the same period last year. CME Group reported a net income of $2.6 billion in 2021, with total revenues of $4.7 billion.


   The Bottom Line  

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange is a key part of America's financial infrastructure. Originally a marketplace for settling agricultural futures, it is now a major trading hub for precious metals, foreign currencies, treasury bonds, cryptocurrencies, and many kinds of derivatives.
What Is the Coase Theorem?  

The Coase Theorem is a legal and economic theory developed by economist Ronald Coase regarding property rights, which states that where there are complete competitive markets with no transaction costs and an efficient set of inputs and outputs, an optimal decision will be selected.



It basically asserts that bargaining between individuals or groups related to property rights will lead to an optimal and efficient outcome, no matter what that outcome is.





Key Takeaways

The Coase Theorem argues that under the right conditions parties to a dispute over property rights will be able to negotiate an economically optimal solution, regardless of the initial distribution of the property rights.The Coase Theorem offers a potentially useful way to think about how to best resolve conflicts between competing businesses or other economic uses of limited resources.In order for the Coase Theorem to apply fully, the conditions of efficient, competitive markets, and most importantly zero transaction costs, must occur.In the real world, it is rare that perfect economic conditions exist, making the Coase Theorem better suited to explaining why inefficiencies exist as opposed to a way to resolve disputes.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding the Coase Theorem  

The Coase Theorem is applied when there are conflicting property rights. The Coase Theorem states that under ideal economic conditions, where there is a conflict of property rights, the involved parties can bargain or negotiate terms that will accurately reflect the full costs and underlying values of the property rights at issue, resulting in the most efficient outcome.



In order for this to occur, the conditions conventionally assumed in the analysis of efficient, competitive markets must be in place, particularly the absence of transaction costs. The information must be free, perfect, and symmetrical.



One of the tenets of the Coase Theorem is that bargaining must be costless; if there are costs associated with bargaining, such as those relating to meetings or enforcement, it affects the outcome. Neither party can possess market power relative to the other so that bargaining power between the parties can be equal enough that it does not influence the outcome of the settlement.



The Coase Theorem shows that where property rights are concerned, involved parties do not necessarily consider how the property rights are divided up if these conditions apply and that they care only about current and future income and rent without regard to issues such as personal sentiment, social equity, or other non-economic factors.



The Coase Theorem has been widely viewed as an argument against the legislative or regulatory intervention of conflicts over property rights and privately negotiated settlements thereof. It was originally developed by Ronald Coase when considering the regulation of radio frequencies. He posited that regulating frequencies was not required because stations with the most to gain by broadcasting on a particular frequency had an incentive to pay other broadcasters not to interfere.


   Example of the Coase Theorem  

The Coase Theorem is applied to situations where the economic activities of one party impose a cost on or damage to the property of another party. Based on the bargaining that occurs during the process, funds may either be offered to compensate one party for the other's activities or to pay the party whose activity inflicts the damages in order to stop that activity.



For example, if a business that produces machines in a factory is subject to a noise complaint initiated by neighboring households who can hear the loud noises of machines being made, the Coase Theorem would lead to two possible settlements.



The business may choose to offer financial compensation to the affected parties in order to be allowed to continue producing the noise or the business might refrain from producing the noise if the neighbors can be induced to pay the business to do so, in order to compensate the business for additional costs or lost revenue associated with stopping the noise. The latter would not actually occur, so the result would be the business continuing operations with no exchange of money.



If the market value produced by the activity that is making the noise exceeds the market value of the damage that the noise causes to the neighbors, then the efficient market outcome to the dispute is that the business will continue making machines. The business can continue to produce the noise and compensate the neighbors out of the revenue generated.



If the value of the business's output of making machines is less than the cost imposed on the neighbors by the noise, then the efficient outcome is that the business will stop making machines and the neighbors would compensate the business for doing so. In the real world, however, neighbors would not pay a business to stop making machines because the cost of doing so is higher than the value they place on the absence of the noise.


   Can the Coase Theorem Be Applied in the Real World?  

In order for Coase Theorem to apply, conditions for efficient competitive markets around the disputed property must occur. If not, an efficient solution is unlikely to be reached.



These assumptions: zero transaction (bargaining) costs, perfect information, no market power differences, and efficient markets for all related goods and production factors, are obviously a high hurdle to pass in the real world where transaction costs are ubiquitous, information is never perfect, market power is the norm, and most markets for final goods and production factors do not meet the requirements for perfect competitive efficiency.



Because the conditions necessary for the Coase Theorem to apply in real-world disputes over the distribution of property rights virtually never occur outside of idealized economic models, some question its relevance to applied questions of law and economics.



Recognizing these real-world difficulties with applying the Coase Theorem, some economists view the theorem not as a prescription for how disputes ought to be resolved, but as an explanation for why so many apparently inefficient outcomes to economic disputes can be found in the real world.
What Is a Code of Ethics?  

A code of ethics is a guide of principles designed to help professionals conduct business honestly and with integrity. A code of ethics document may outline the mission and values of the business or organization, how professionals are supposed to approach problems, the ethical principles based on the organization's core values, and the standards to which the professional is held.



A code of ethics, also referred to as an "ethical code," may encompass areas such as business ethics, a code of professional practice, and an employee code of conduct.





Key Takeaways

A code of ethics sets out an organization's ethical guidelines and best practices to follow for honesty, integrity, and professionalism.For members of an organization, violating the code of ethics can result in sanctions including termination.In some industries, including banking and finance, specific laws govern business conduct. In others, a code of ethics may be voluntarily adopted.The main types of codes of ethics include a compliance-based code of ethics, a value-based code of ethics, and a code of ethics among professionals.A focus on climate change has become an integral part of companies' codes of ethics, detailing their commitment to sustainability.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Codes of Ethics  

Business ethics refers to how ethical principles guide a business's operations. Common issues that fall under the umbrella of business ethics include employer-employee relations, discrimination, environmental issues, bribery, insider trading, and social responsibility.



While many laws exist to set basic ethical standards within the business community, it is largely dependent upon a business's leadership to develop a code of ethics.



Both businesses and trade organizations typically have some sort of code of ethics that their employees or members are supposed to follow. Breaking the code of ethics can result in termination or dismissal from the organization. A code of ethics is important because it clearly lays out the rules for behavior and provides the groundwork for a preemptive warning.






While a code of ethics is often not required, many firms and organizations choose to adopt one, which helps to identify and characterize a business to stakeholders.



Given the importance of climate change and how human behavior has led to severely impacting the climate, many companies have taken to include climate factors in their code of ethics. These principles include manners in which the company is dedicated to operating sustainably or how they will shift to doing so.



In many cases, this commitment to sustainability adds to the costs of a company, but because consumers are becoming more focused on the types of businesses they choose to engage with, it is often worth the cost to maintain a good public image.



Regardless of size, businesses count on their management staff to set a standard of ethical conduct for other employees to follow. When administrators adhere to the code of ethics, it sends a message that universal compliance is expected of every employee.


   Types of Codes of Ethics  

A code of ethics can take a variety of forms, but the general goal is to ensure that a business and its employees are following state and federal laws, conducting themselves with an ideal that can be exemplary, and ensuring that the business being conducted is beneficial for all stakeholders. The following are three types of codes of ethics found in business.


  Compliance-Based Code of Ethics  

For all businesses, laws regulate issues such as hiring and safety standards. Compliance-based codes of ethics not only set guidelines for conduct but also determine penalties for violations.



In some industries, including banking, specific laws govern business conduct. These industries formulate compliance-based codes of ethics to enforce laws and regulations. Employees usually undergo formal training to learn the rules of conduct. Because noncompliance can create legal issues for the company as a whole, individual workers within a firm may face penalties for failing to follow guidelines.



To ensure that the aims and principles of the code of ethics are followed, some companies appoint a compliance officer. This individual is tasked with keeping up to date on changes in regulation codes and monitoring employee conduct to encourage conformity.



This type of code of ethics is based on clear-cut rules and well-defined consequences rather than individual monitoring of personal behavior. Despite strict adherence to the law, some compliance-based codes of conduct do not thus promote a climate of moral responsibility within the company.


  Value-Based Code of Ethics  

A value-based code of ethics addresses a company's core value system. It may outline standards of responsible conduct as they relate to the larger public good and the environment. Value-based ethical codes may require a greater degree of self-regulation than compliance-based codes.



Some codes of conduct contain language that addresses both compliance and values. For example, a grocery store chain might create a code of conduct that espouses the company's commitment to health and safety regulations above financial gain. That grocery chain might also include a statement about refusing to contract with suppliers that feed hormones to livestock or raise animals in inhumane living conditions.


   Code of Ethics in Different Professions  

Certain professions, such as those in the finance or health fields, have specific laws that mandate codes of ethics and conduct. 


  Accountants  

Certified public accountants, who are not typically considered fiduciaries to their clients, still are expected to follow similar ethical standards, such as integrity, objectivity, truthfulness, and avoidance of conflicts of interest, according to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA).


  Financial Advisers  

Financial advisers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or a state regulator are bound by a code of ethics known as a fiduciary duty. This is a legal requirement and also a code of loyalty that requires them to act in the best interest of their clients.


   Code of Ethics vs. Code of Conduct  

A code of ethics is similar to a code of conduct. Both are sets of professional standards to guide the behavior of an organization's members.



However, there are some subtle differences: A code of ethics is used to ensure that members have sound and unclouded judgment. Examples include the legal codes that prohibit lawyers from accepting cases where they have a conflict of interest or those that prevent brokers from trading against their clients.



A code of conduct, on the other hand, guides the specific actions of a company's employees. It may contain certain norms of professional responsibility, such as punctuality and accuracy. Most companies have an employee code of conduct, both to maintain professionalism and to prevent friction among their employees.


   How to Create a Code of Ethics  

Organizations create codes of ethics in order to eliminate unacceptable or immoral behavior from their members. These are typically structured around existing ethical issues within their industry.



The first step is for the organization to identify its priorities, as well as any ethical issues that it wishes to avoid. For example, an organization may want to avoid having conflicts of interest, because of previous scandals in which employees acted against the interests of the company or clients. As a result, their code of ethics might prohibit certain inappropriate relationships, or prohibit employees from any appearance of a conflict of interests.


   Example of Code of Ethics  

Many firms and organizations have adopted a Code of Ethics. One good example comes from the CFA Institute (CFAI), the grantor of the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation and creator of the CFA exams. CFA Charterholders are among the most respected and globally recognized financial professionals. According to the CFAI's website, members of the CFA Institute, including CFA Charterholders, and candidates for the CFA designation must adhere to the following Code of Ethics:



Act with integrity, competence, diligence, respect, and in an ethical manner with the public, clients, prospective clients, employers, employees, colleagues in the investment profession, and other participants in the global capital markets.Place the integrity of the investment profession and the interests of clients above their own personal interests.Use reasonable care and exercise independent professional judgment when conducting investment analysis, making investment recommendations, taking investment actions, and engaging in other professional activities.Practice and encourage others to practice professionally and ethically that will reflect credit on themselves and the profession.Promote the integrity and viability of the global capital markets for the ultimate benefit of society.Maintain and improve their professional competence and strive to maintain and improve the competence of other investment professionals.




What Are the 5 Ehical Principles?
All companies will have a different code of ethics with different areas of interest, based on the industry they are involved in, but the five areas that companies typically focus on include integrity, objectivity, professional competence, confidentiality, and professional behavior.




What Is a Code of Ethics in Business?
A code of ethics in business is a set of guiding principles intended to ensure a business and its employees act with honesty and integrity in all facets of its day-to-day operations and to only engage in acts that promote a benefit to society.




What Is a Code of Ethics for Teachers?
A code of ethics for teachers defines the primary responsibilities of a teacher to their students and the role of the teacher in the student's life. Teachers are required to show impartiality, integrity, and ethical behavior in the classroom.




What Is an Example of a Code of Ethics?
An example of a code of ethics would be a business that drafts a code outlining all the ways the business should act with honesty and integrity in its day-to-day operations, from how its employees behave and interact with clients, to the types of individuals it does business with, including suppliers and advertising agencies.




What Is the Difference Between a Code of Ethics and a Code of Conduct?
A code of ethics is broader in its nature, outlining what is acceptable for the company in terms of integrity and how it operates. A code of conduct is more focused in nature and instructs how a business' employees should act daily and in specific situations.


   The Bottom Line  

A code of ethics is a guiding set of principles intended to instruct professionals to act in a manner that is honest and that is beneficial to all stakeholders involved. A code of ethics is drafted by a business and tailored to the specific industry at hand, requiring all employees of that business to adhere to the code.



The moral choices of businesses have evolved, from the industrial age to the modern era. In the world we live in today, working conditions, how a business impacts the environment, and how it deals with inequality are all areas that society deems important that perhaps two centuries ago it did not as much. A code of ethics helps ensure that businesses will always act with integrity.
What Is the Coefficient of Determination?  

The coefficient of determination is a statistical measurement that examines how differences in one variable can be explained by the difference in a second variable when predicting the outcome of a given event. In other words, this coefficient, more commonly known as r-squared (or r2), assesses how strong the linear relationship is between two variables and is heavily relied on by investors when conducting trend analysis.



This coefficient generally answers the following question: If a stock is listed on an index and experiences price movements, what percentage of its price movement is attributed to the index's price movement?





Key Takeaways

The coefficient of determination is a complex idea centered on statistical analysis of data and financial modeling.The coefficient of determination is used to explain the relationship between an independent and dependent variable.The coefficient of determination is commonly called r-squared (or r2) for the statistical value it represents.This measure is represented as a value between 0.0 and 1.0, where a value of 1.0 indicates a perfect correlation. Thus, it is a reliable model for future forecasts, while a value of 0.0 suggests that asset prices are not a function of dependency on the index. 












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding the Coefficient of Determination  

The coefficient of determination is a measurement used to explain how much the variability of one factor is caused by its relationship to another factor. This correlation is represented as a value between 0.0 and 1.0 (0% to 100%).



A value of 1.0 indicates a 100% price correlation and is thus a reliable model for future forecasts. A value of 0.0 suggests that the model shows that prices are not a function of dependency on the index. 



So, a value of 0.20 suggests that 20% of an asset's price movement can be explained by the index, while a value of 0.50 indicates that 50% of its price movement can be explained by it, and so on.






The coefficient of determination is the square of the correlation coefficient, also known as "r" in statistics. The value "r" can result in a negative number, but because r-squared is the result of "r" multiplied by itself (or squared), r2 cannot result in a negative number—regardless of what is found on the internet—the square of a negative number is always a positive value.


   Calculating the Coefficient of Determination  

To calculate the coefficient of determination. This is done by creating a scatter plot of the data and a trend line.



For instance, if you were to plot the closing prices for the S&P 500 and Apple stock (Apple is listed on the S&P 500) for trading days from Dec. 21, 2022, to Jan. 20, 2023, you'd collect the prices as shown in the table below.











S&P Daily Close
APPL Daily Close




Jan. 20
$3,972.61
$137.87


19
$3,898.85
$135.27


18
$3,928.86
$135.21


17
$3,990.97
$135.94


13
$3,999.09
$134.76


12
$3,983.17
$133.41


11
$3,969.61
$133.49


10
$3,919.25
$130.73


9
$3,892.09
$130.15


6
$3,895.08
$129.62


5
$3,808.10
$125.02


4
$3,852.97
$126.36


3
$3,824.14
$125.07


Dec. 30
$3,839.50
$139.93


29
$3,849.28
$129.61


28
$3,783.22
$126.04


27
$3,829.25
$130.03


23
$3,844.82
$131.86


22
$3,822.39
$132.23


21
$3,878.44
$135.45






Then, you'd create a scatter plot. On a graph, how well the data fits the regression model is called the goodness of fit, which measures the distance between a trend line and all of the data points that are scattered throughout the diagram.












  Spreadsheets  

Most spreadsheets use the same formula to calculate the r2 of a dataset. So, if the data reside in columns A and B on your sheet:



= RSQ ( A1 : A10 , B1 : B10 )



Using this formula and highlighting the corresponding cells for the S&P 500 and Apple prices, you get an r2 of 0.347, suggesting that the two prices are less correlated than if the r2 was between 0.5 and 1.0.


  Manual Calculation  

Calculating the coefficient of determination by hand involves several steps. First, you gather the data as in the previous table. Second, you need to calculate all the values you need, as shown in this table, where:



x= S&P 500 daily closey = APPL daily close














x
x2
y
y2
xy




Jan. 20
$3,972.61
$15,781,630.21
$137.87
$19,008.14
$547,703.74


19
$3,898.85
$15,201,031.32
$135.27
$18,297.97
$527,397.44


18
$3,928.86
$15,435,940.90
$135.21
$18,281.74
$531,221.16


17
$3,990.97
$15,927,841.54
$135.94
$18,479.68
$542,532.46


13
$3,999.09
$15,992,720.83
$134.76
$18,160.26
$538,917.37


12
$3,983.17
$15,865,643.25
$133.41
$17,798.23
$531,394.71


11
$3,969.61
$15,757,803.55
$133.49
$17,819.58
$529,903.24


10
$3,919.25
$15,360,520.56
$130.73
$17,090.33
$512,363.55


9
$3,892.09
$15,148,364.57
$130.15
$16,939.02
$506,555.51


6
$3,895.08
$15,171,648.21
$129.62
$16,801.34
$504,880.27


5
$3,808.10
$14,501,625.61
$125.02
$15,630.00
$476,088.66


4
$3,852.97
$14,845,377.82
$126.36
$15,966.85
$486,861.29


3
$3,824.14
$14,624,046.74
$125.07
$15,642.50
$478,285.19


Dec. 30
$3,839.50
$14,741,760.25
$139.93
$19,580.40
$537,261.24


29
$3,849.28
$14,816,956.52
$129.61
$16,798.75
$498,905.18


28
$3,783.22
$14,312,753.57
$126.04
$15,886.08
$476,837.05


27
$3,829.25
$14,663,155.56
$130.03
$16,907.80
$497,917.38


23
$3,844.82
$14,782,640.83
$131.86
$17,387.06
$506,977.97


22
$3,822.39
$14,610,665.31
$132.23
$17,484.77
$505,434.63


21
$3,878.44
$15,042,296.83
$135.45
$18,346.70
$525,334.70


Sum (Σ)
$77,781.69
$302,584,424.00
$2,638.05
$348,307.23
$10,262,772.73






Next, use this formula and substitute the values for each row of the table, where n equals the number of samples taken, in this case, 20:
















r


2



=


(




n


(


∑


x


y


)


−


(


∑


x


)


(


∑


y


)






[


n


∑



x


2



−


(


∑


x



)


2



]




×




[


n


∑



y


2



−


(


∑


y



)


2



]







)


2








\begin{aligned}&r ^ 2 = \Big ( \frac {n ( \sum xy) - ( \sum x )( \sum y ) }{ \sqrt { [ n \sum x ^ 2 - ( \sum x ) ^ 2 ] } \times \sqrt { [ n \sum y ^ 2 - ( \sum y ) ^ 2 ] } } \Big ) ^ 2 \\\end{aligned}


​r2=([n∑x2−(∑x)2]​×[n∑y2−(∑y)2]​n(∑xy)−(∑x)(∑y)​)2​
Where √ represents the square root of the product in the brackets that follow it.
















r


2



=


(





20


(


10


,


262


,


772.73


)


−


(


77


,


781.69


)


(


2


,


638.05


)






[


20


(


302


,


584


,


424


)


−


(


77


,


781.69



)


2



]




×




[


20


(


348


,


307.23


)


−


(


2


,


638.05



)


2



]







)


2









\begin{aligned}&r ^ 2 = \Big ( \tiny { \frac {20 ( 10,262,772.73) - ( 77,781.69 )( 2,638.05 ) }{ \sqrt { [ 20 ( 302,584,424 ) - ( 77,781.69 ) ^ 2 ] } \times \sqrt { [ 20 ( 348,307.23 ) - ( 2,638.05 ) ^ 2 ] } } } \Big ) ^ 2 \\\end{aligned}


​r2=([20(302,584,424)−(77,781.69)2]​×[20(348,307.23)−(2,638.05)2]​20(10,262,772.73)−(77,781.69)(2,638.05)​)2​
So you now have:















1.




(


20


×


10


,


262


,


772.73


)


−


(


77


,


781.69


×


2


,


638.05


)


=


63


,


467.32


















2.




(




(


20


×


302


,


584


,


424


)


−


(


77


,


781.69



)


2





=




1


,


697


,


180.74




=


1


,


302.76


















3.




(




(


20


×


10


,


262


,


772.73


)


−


(


2


,


638.05



)


2





=




6


,


836.85




=


82.69









\begin{aligned}&1. \tiny { ( 20 \times 10,262,772.73 ) - ( 77,781.69 \times 2,638.05 ) = 63,467.32 } \\&2. \tiny { (\sqrt { ( 20 \times 302,584,424 ) - ( 77,781.69 ) ^ 2 } = \sqrt { 1,697,180.74 } = 1,302.76 } \\&3. \tiny { (\sqrt { ( 20 \times 10,262,772.73 ) - ( 2,638.05 ) ^ 2 } = \sqrt { 6,836.85 } = 82.69 }\\\end{aligned}


​1.(20×10,262,772.73)−(77,781.69×2,638.05)=63,467.322.((20×302,584,424)−(77,781.69)2​=1,697,180.74​=1,302.763.((20×10,262,772.73)−(2,638.05)2​=6,836.85​=82.69​
Then, multiply steps two and three, divide step one by the result, and square it:















(




63


,


467.32




1


,


302.76


×


82.69





)


2



=


0.347







\begin{aligned}&\Big ( \frac { 63,467.32 }{ 1,302.76 \times 82.69 } \Big ) ^ 2 = 0.347\end{aligned}


​(1,302.76×82.6963,467.32​)2=0.347​

You can see how this can become very tedious with lots of room for error, especially, if you're using more than a few weeks of trading data.


  Interpreting the Coefficient of Determination  

Once you have the coefficient of determination, you use it to evaluate how closely the price movements of the asset you're evaluating correspond to the price movements of an index or benchmark. In the Apple and S&P 500 example, the coefficient of determination for the period was 0.347.



Because 1.0 demonstrates a high correlation and 0.0 shows no correlation, 0.357 shows that Apple stock price movements are somewhat correlated to the index.






Apple is listed on many indexes, so you can calculate the r2 to determine if it corresponds to any other indexes' price movements.



One aspect to consider is that r-squared doesn't tell analysts whether the coefficient of determination value is intrinsically good or bad. It is their discretion to evaluate the meaning of this correlation and how it may be applied in future trend analyses.




How Do You Interpret a Coefficient of Determination?
The coefficient of determination shows how correlated one dependent and one independent variable are. Also called r2 (r-squared), the value should be between 0.0 and 1.0. The closer to 0.0, the less correlated the dependent value is. The closer to 1.0, the more correlated the value is.




What Does R-Squared Tell You in Regression?
It tells you whether there is a dependency between two values and how much dependency one value has on the other.




What If the Coefficient of Determination Is Greater Than 1?
The coefficient of determination cannot be more than one because the formula always results in a number between 0.0 and 1.0. If it is greater or less than these numbers, something is not correct.


   The Bottom Line  

The coefficient of determination is a ratio that shows how dependent one variable is on another variable. Investors use it to determine how correlated an asset's price movements are with its listed index.



When an asset's r2 is closer to zero, it does not demonstrate dependency on the index; if its r2 is closer to 1.0, it is more dependent on the price moves the index makes.
What Is the Co-efficient of Variation (CV)?  

The co-efficient of variation (CV) is a statistical measure of the dispersion of data points in a data series around the mean. The co-efficient of variation represents the ratio of the standard deviation to the mean, and it is a useful statistic for comparing the degree of variation from one data series to another, even if the means are drastically different from one another.





Key Takeaways

The co-efficient of variation (CV) is a statistical measure of the relative dispersion of data points in a data series around the mean.It represents the ratio of the standard deviation to the mean.The CV is useful for comparing the degree of variation from one data series to another, even if the means are drastically different from one another.In finance, the co-efficient of variation allows investors to determine how much volatility, or risk, is assumed in comparison to the amount of return expected from investments.The lower the ratio of the standard deviation to mean return, the better risk-return tradeoff.


   Understanding the Co-efficient of Variation (CV)  

The co-efficient of variation shows the extent of variability of data in a sample in relation to the mean of the population.



In finance, the co-efficient of variation allows investors to determine how much volatility, or risk, is assumed in comparison to the amount of return expected from investments. Ideally, if the co-efficient of variation formula should result in a lower ratio of the standard deviation to mean return, then the better the risk-return tradeoff.



They’re most often used to analyze dispersion around the mean, but quartile, quintile, or decile CVs can also be used to understand variation around the median or 10th percentile, for example.






The co-efficient of variation formula or calculation can be used to determine the deviation between the historical mean price and the current price performance of a stock, commodity, or bond, relative to other assets.


   Co-efficient of Variation (CV) Formula  

Below is the formula for how to calculate the co-efficient of variation:


















CV


=



σ


μ

















where:
















σ


=


standard deviation
















μ


=


mean







\begin{aligned} &\text{CV} = \frac { \sigma }{ \mu } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\sigma = \text{standard deviation} \\ &\mu = \text{mean} \\ \end{aligned}


​CV=μσ​where:σ=standard deviationμ=mean​



To calculate the CV for a sample, the formula is:








C


V


=


s


/


x


∗


100



CV = s/x * 100


CV=s/x∗100where:s = samplex̄ = mean for the population






Multiplying the co-efficient by 100 is an optional step to get a percentage rather than a decimal.


  Co-efficient of Variation (CV) in Excel  

The co-efficient of variation formula can be performed in Excel by first using the standard deviation function for a data set. Next, calculate the mean by using the Excel function provided. Since the co-efficient of variation is the standard deviation divided by the mean, divide the cell containing the standard deviation by the cell containing the mean.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Co-efficient of Variation (CV) vs. Standard Deviation  

The standard deviation is a statistic that measures the dispersion of a data set relative to its mean. It is used to determine the spread of values in a single data set rather than to compare different units.



When we want to compare two or more data sets, the co-efficient of variation is used. The CV is the ratio of the standard deviation to the mean. And because it’s independent of the unit in which the measurement was taken, it can be used to compare data sets with different units or widely different means.



In short, the standard deviation measures how far the average value lies from the mean, whereas the co-efficient of variation measures the ratio of the standard deviation to the mean.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of the Co-efficient of Variation (CV)  
  Advantages  

The co-efficient of variation can be useful when comparing data sets with different units or widely different means.



That includes when the risk/reward ratio is used to select investments. For example, an investor who is risk-averse may want to consider assets with a historically low degree of volatility relative to the return, in relation to the overall market or its industry. Conversely, risk-seeking investors may look to invest in assets with a historically high degree of volatility.


  Disadvantages  

When the mean value is close to zero, the CV becomes very sensitive to small changes in the mean. Using the example above, a notable flaw would be if the expected return in the denominator is negative or zero. In this case, the co-efficient of variation could be misleading.






If the expected return in the denominator of the co-efficient of variation formula is negative or zero, then the result could be misleading.


   How Can the Co-efficient of Variation Be Used?  

The co-efficient of variation is used in many different fields, including chemistry, engineering, physics, economics, and neuroscience.



Other than helping when using the risk/reward ratio to select investments, it is used by economists to measure economic inequality. Outside of finance, it is commonly applied to audit the precision of a particular process and arrive at a perfect balance.


   Example of Co-efficient of Variation (CV) for Selecting Investments  

For example, consider a risk-averse investor who wishes to invest in an exchange-traded fund (ETF), which is a basket of securities that tracks a broad market index. The investor selects the SPDR S&P 500 ETF, the Invesco QQQ ETF, and the iShares Russell 2000 ETF. Then, they analyze the ETFs’ returns and volatility over the past 15 years and assumes that the ETFs could have similar returns to their long-term averages.



For illustrative purposes, the following 15-year historical information is used for the investor’s decision:



If the SPDR S&P 500 ETF has an average annual return of 5.47% and a standard deviation of 14.68%, the SPDR S&P 500 ETF’s co-efficient of variation is 2.68.If the Invesco QQQ ETF has an average annual return of 6.88% and a standard deviation of 21.31%, the QQQ’s co-efficient of variation is 3.10.If the iShares Russell 2000 ETF has an average annual return of 7.16% and a standard deviation of 19.46%, the IWM’s co-efficient of variation is 2.72.



Based on the approximate figures, the investor could invest in either the SPDR S&P 500 ETF or the iShares Russell 2000 ETF, since the risk/reward ratios are approximately the same and indicate a better risk-return tradeoff than the Invesco QQQ ETF.




What does the co-efficient of variation tell us?
The co-efficient of variation (CV) indicates the size of a standard deviation in relation to its mean. The higher the co-efficient of variation, the greater the dispersion level around the mean.




What is considered a good co-efficient of variation?
That depends on what you’re looking at and comparing. No set value can be considered universally “good.” However, generally speaking, it is often the case that a lower co-efficient of variation is more desirable, as that would suggest a lower spread of data values relative to the mean.




How do I calculate the co-efficient of variation?
To calculate the co-efficient of variation, first find the mean, then the sum of squares, and then work out the standard deviation. With that information at hand, it is possible to calculate the co-efficient of variation by dividing the standard deviation by the mean.


   The Bottom Line  

The co-efficient of variation is a simple way to compare the degree of variation from one data series to another. It can be applied to pretty much anything, including the process of picking suitable investments.



Generally speaking, a high CV indicates that the group is more variable, whereas a low value would suggest the opposite.
What Is Coinsurance?  

Coinsurance is the amount, generally expressed as a fixed percentage, an insured must pay toward a covered claim after the deductible is satisfied. It is common in health insurance. Some property insurance policies also contain coinsurance provisions. In this case, coinsurance is the amount of coverage that the property owner must purchase for a structure.





Key Takeaways

Coinsurance is common in health insurance and some property insurance policies.In health insurance, coinsurance is the percentage under an insurance plan that the insured person pays toward a covered expense or service, after the policy deductible is satisfied.One of the most common coinsurance breakdowns is the 80/20 split: The insurer pays 80%, the insured 20%.A coinsurance provision is similar to a copayment provision, except copays require the insured to pay a set dollar amount at the time of the service, and coinsurance is a percentage amount of the overall cost.The coinsurance clause in a property insurance policy requires that a home is insured for a percentage of its total cash or replacement value.












Investopedia / Eliana Rodgers


   How Coinsurance Works  

A coinsurance provision is similar to a copayment, or "copay," provision, except that copays require the insured to pay a set dollar amount at the time of the service, and coinsurance is a percentage amount.



One of the most common coinsurance breakdowns is the 80/20 split. Under the terms of an 80/20 coinsurance plan, the insured is billed for 20% of medical costs, while the insurer pays the remaining 80%.



However, these terms only apply after the insured has reached the policy's out-of-pocket deductible amount. Also, most health insurance policies include an out-of-pocket maximum that limits the total amount the insured pays for care in a given period.






Generally speaking, plans with low monthly premiums have higher coinsurance, and plans with higher monthly premiums have lower coinsurance.


   Example of Coinsurance  

Here's how it typically works: Assume you take out a health insurance policy with an 80/20 coinsurance provision, a $1,000 out-of-pocket deductible, and a $5,000 out-of-pocket maximum. Unfortunately, you require outpatient surgery early in the year that costs $5,500. Because you have not yet met your deductible, you must pay the first $1,000 of the bill. After meeting your $1,000 deductible, you are then only responsible for 20% of the remaining $4,500, or $900. Your insurance company will cover 80%, the remaining balance.



If you require another expensive procedure later in the year, your coinsurance provision takes effect immediately because you have previously met your annual deductible. Also, because you have already paid a total of $1,900 out-of-pocket during the policy term, the maximum amount that you will be required to pay for services for the rest of the year is $3,100.



After you reach the $5,000 out-of-pocket maximum, your insurance company is responsible for paying up to the maximum policy limit, or the maximum benefit allowable under a given policy.


   Copay vs. Coinsurance  

Both copay and coinsurance provisions are ways for insurance companies to spread risk among the people they insure. However, both have advantages and disadvantages for consumers.


  Pros and Cons of Coinsurance  

Because coinsurance policies require deductibles before the insurer bears any cost, policyholders absorb more costs upfront. On the other hand, it is also more likely that the out-of-pocket maximum will be reached earlier in the year, resulting in the insurance company incurring all costs for the remainder of the policy term.


  Pros and Cons of Copays  

A copay plan charges the insured a set amount at the time of each service. Copay plans spread the cost of care over a full year and make predicting your medical expenses easier.



The size of the copays varies, depending on the type of service that you receive. For example, a visit to a primary care physician may have a $20 copay, whereas an emergency room visit may have a $100 copay. Other services such as preventative care and screenings may carry full payment without a copayment. A copay policy will likely result in an insured paying for each medical visit.


   Property Insurance Coinsurance  

The coinsurance clause in a property insurance policy requires that a home (or other physical property) be insured for a percentage of its total cash or replacement value. Usually, this percentage is 80%, but different providers may require varying percentages of coverage (90%, 70%, etc.). For example, if a property has a value of $200,000 and the insurance provider requires an 80% coinsurance, the homeowner must have $160,000 of property insurance coverage if they want full reimbursement on any claims.



If a structure is not insured to this level and the owner should file a claim for a covered peril, the provider may impose a coinsurance penalty on the owner. In other words, the policyholder is required to hold a high enough insurance limit to cover a percentage of the property value in order to receive full compensation if there is a loss or damage to the property.


  Waiver of Coinsurance  

Owners may include a waiver of coinsurance clause in policies. A waiver of coinsurance clause relinquishes the homeowner’s requirement to pay coinsurance. Generally, insurance companies tend to waive coinsurance only in the event of fairly small claims. In some cases, however, policies may include a waiver of coinsurance in the event of a total loss.




What Does 30% Coinsurance Mean?
Coinsurance is an insured individual's share of the costs of a covered expense (it usually applies to health-care insurance). It is expressed as a percentage. If you have a "30% coinsurance" policy, it means that, when you have a medical bill, you are responsible for 30% of it. Your health plan pays the remaining 70%.




Is Coinsurance the Same as Copay?
Though both represent an out-of-pocket expense for you, the insured person, coinsurance is not the same as copay. A copay is a set figure you're charged for prescriptions, doctor visits, and other types of health care—generally at the time of service. Your copay applies even if you haven't met your deductible yet. Coinsurance is the percentage of costs of the services and treatment you're responsible for after you've met your health plan's overall deductible.




Is Coinsurance or a Copay Better?
Both coinsurance and copay have their pros and cons. Because you pay a set amount at the time of each service or purchase, copay plans make it easier to anticipate your health-care expenses. You'll always pay the copay, regardless of whether you've met your deductible or not. Coinsurance only kicks in after your deductible's been met. On the other hand, once it starts applying, coinsurance may mean lower outlays overall. Also, coinsurance goes toward meeting your policy out-of-pocket maximums.


   The Bottom Line  

Coinsurance is the amount an insured must pay against a health insurance claim after their deductible is satisfied. Coinsurance also applies to the level of property insurance that an owner must buy on a structure for the coverage of claims. Coinsurance differs from a copay in that a copay is generally a set dollar amount that an insured must pay at the time of each service. Both copay and coinsurance provisions are ways for insurance companies to spread risk among the people it insures. Both have advantages and disadvantages for consumers.
What Is a Collar?  

A collar, also known as a hedge wrapper or risk-reversal, is an options strategy implemented to protect against large losses, but it also limits large gains.



An investor who is already long the underlying creates a collar by buying an out-of-the-money put option while simultaneously writing an out-of-the-money call option. The put protects the trader in case the price of the stock drops. Writing the call produces income (which ideally should offset the cost of buying the put) and allows the trader to profit on the stock up to the strike price of the call, but not higher.





Key Takeaways

A collar is an options strategy that involves buying a downside put and selling an upside call that is implemented to protect against large losses, but that also limits large upside gains.The protective collar strategy involves two strategies known as a protective put and covered call.An investor's best-case scenario is when the underlying stock price is equal to the strike price of the written call option at expiry.












Investopedia / Sydney Burns


   Understanding a Collar  

An investor should consider executing a collar if they are currently long a stock that has substantial unrealized gains. Additionally, the investor might also consider it if they are bullish on the stock over the long term, but are unsure of shorter-term prospects. To protect gains against a downside move in the stock, they can implement the collar option strategy. An investor's best-case scenario is when the underlying stock price is equal to the strike price of the written call option at expiry.



The protective collar strategy involves two strategies known as a protective put and covered call. A protective put, or married put, involves being long a put option and long the underlying security. A covered call, or buy/write, involves being long the underlying security and short a call option.



The purchase of an out-of-the-money put option is what protects the trader from a potentially large downward move in the stock price while the writing (selling) of an out-of-the-money call option generates premiums that, ideally, should offset the premiums paid to buy the put.



The call and put should be the same expiry month and the same number of contracts. The purchased put should have a strike price below the current market price of the stock. The written call should have a strike price above the current market price of the stock. The trade should be set up for little or zero out-of-pocket cost if the investor selects the respective strike prices that are equidistant from the current price of the owned stock.



Since they are willing to risk sacrificing gains on the stock above the covered call's strike price, this is not a strategy for an investor who is extremely bullish on the stock.


   Collar Break Even Point (BEP) and Profit Loss (P/L)  

An investor's breakeven point (BEP) on a collar strategy is the net of the premiums paid and received for the put and call subtracted from or added to the purchase price of the underlying stock depending on whether there is a credit or debit. Net credit is when the premiums received are greater than the premiums paid and net debit is when the premiums paid are greater than the premiums received.



The maximum profit of a collar is equivalent to the call option's strike price less the underlying stock's purchase price per share. The cost of the options, whether for a net debit or credit, is then factored in. The maximum loss is the purchase price of the underlying stock less the put option's strike price. The cost of the option is then factored in.



Maximum Profit = (Call option strike price - Net of Put / Call premiums) - Stock purchase priceMaximum Loss = Stock purchase price - (Put option strike price - Net of Put / Call premiums)


   Collar Example  

Assume an investor is long 1,000 shares of stock ABC at a price of $80 per share, and the stock is currently trading at $87 per share. The investor wants to temporarily hedge the position due to the increase in the overall market's volatility.



The investor purchases 10 put options (one option contract is 100 shares) with a strike price of $77 and a premium of $3.00 and writes 10 call options with a strike price of $97 with a premium of $4.50.



Cost to implement collar (Buy $77 strike Put & write $97 strike call) is a net credit of $1.50 / share.Breakeven point = $80 + $1.50 = $81.50 / share.



The maximum profit is $15,500, or 10 contracts x 100 shares x (($97 - $1.50) - $80). This scenario occurs if the stock prices goes to $97 or above.



Conversely, the maximum loss is $4,500, or 10 x 100 x ($80 - ($77 - $1.50)). This scenario occurs if the stock price drops to $77 or below.
What Is Collateral?  

Collateral in the financial world is a valuable asset that a borrower pledges as security for a loan.



For example, when a homebuyer obtains a mortgage, the home serves as the collateral for the loan. For a car loan, the vehicle is the collateral. A business that obtains financing from a bank may pledge valuable equipment or real estate owned by the business as collateral for the loan. In the event of a default, the lender can seize the collateral and sell it to recoup the loss.



Other nonspecific personal loans can be collateralized by other assets. For instance, a secured credit card may be secured by a cash deposit for the same amount of the credit limit—$500 for a $500 credit limit.





Key Takeaways

Collateral is an item of value pledged to secure a loan.Collateral reduces the risk for lenders.If a borrower defaults on the loan, the lender can seize the collateral and sell it to recoup its losses.Mortgages and car loans are two types of collateralized loans.Other personal assets, such as a savings or investment account, can be used to secure a collateralized personal loan.


   How Collateral Works  

Before a lender issues you a loan, it wants to know that you have the ability to repay it. That's why many of them require some form of security. This security is called collateral, which minimizes the risk for lenders by ensuring that the borrower keeps up with their financial obligation. The borrower has a compelling reason to repay the loan on time because if they default, they stand to lose their home or other assets pledged as collateral.



Loans secured by collateral are typically available at substantially lower interest rates than unsecured loans. A lender's claim to a borrower's collateral is called a lien—a legal right or claim against an asset to satisfy a debt.



In the event that the borrower does default, the lender can seize the collateral and sell it, applying the money it gets to the unpaid portion of the loan. The lender can choose to pursue legal action against the borrower to recoup any remaining balance.


   Types of Collateral  

The nature of the collateral is often predetermined by the loan type. When you take out a mortgage, your home becomes the collateral. If you take out a car loan, then the car is the collateral for the loan. The types of collateral that lenders commonly accept include cars—only if they are paid off in full—bank savings deposits, and investment accounts. Retirement accounts are not usually accepted as collateral.



You also may use future paychecks as collateral for very short-term loans, and not just from payday lenders. Traditional banks offer such loans, usually for terms no longer than a couple of weeks. These short-term loans are an option in a genuine emergency, but even then, you should read the fine print carefully and compare rates.


  Collateralized Personal Loans  

Another type of borrowing is the collateralized personal loan, in which the borrower offers an item of value as security for a loan. The value of the collateral must meet or exceed the amount being loaned. If you are considering a collateralized personal loan, your best choice for a lender is probably a financial institution that you already do business with, especially if your collateral is your savings account. If you already have a relationship with the bank, that bank would be more inclined to approve the loan, and you are more apt to get a decent rate for it.






Use a financial institution with which you already have a relationship if you're considering a collateralized personal loan.


   Examples of Collateral Loans  
  Residential Mortgages  

A mortgage is a loan in which the house is the collateral. If the homeowner stops paying the mortgage for at least 120 days, the loan servicer can begin legal proceedings, which can lead to the lender eventually taking possession of the house through foreclosure. Once the property is transferred to the lender, it can be sold to repay the remaining principal on the loan.


  Home Equity Loans  

A home may also function as collateral on a second mortgage or home equity line of credit (HELOC). In this case, the amount of the loan will not exceed the available equity. For example, if a home is valued at $200,000, and $125,000 remains on the primary mortgage, a second mortgage or HELOC will be available only for as much as $75,000.


  Margin Trading  

Collateralized loans are also a factor in margin trading. An investor borrows money from a broker to buy shares, using the balance in the investor's brokerage account as collateral. The loan increases the number of shares the investor can buy, thus multiplying the potential gains if the shares increase in value. But the risks are also multiplied. If the shares decrease in value, the broker demands payment of the difference. In that case, the account serves as collateral if the borrower fails to cover the loss.




Is Collateral Property?
Collateral guarantees a loan, so it needs to be an item of value. For example, it can be a piece of property, such as a car or a home, or even cash that the lender can seize if the borrower does not pay.




What Loans Do not Use an Asset as Collateral?
If you don't have any collateral necessary to secure a certain type of loan, you may want to consider looking into unsecured loans, such as a personal loan or credit card (both of which don't use an asset as collateral), as an alternative.




Do I Get Back My Collateral?
If you have any assets being used as collateral on a loan and don't miss any payments, you won't lose your collateral. However, if you fail to make payments on time and ultimately default on your loan, the collateral can then be seized and sold, with the profits being used to pay off the remainder of the loan.


   The Bottom Line  

You risk losing your collateral if you fail to pay back your debt. So to ensure you keep your car, home, or any other valuable asset being used as collateral on a loan, always make your payments on time to minimize any possibility of defaulting on your debt.
What Is a Collateralized Debt Obligation (CDO)?  

A collateralized debt obligation (CDO) is a complex structured finance product that is backed by a pool of loans and other assets and sold to institutional investors.



A CDO is a particular type of derivative because, as its name implies, its value is derived from another underlying asset. These assets become the collateral if the loan defaults.





Key Takeaways

A collateralized debt obligation is a complex structured finance product that is backed by a pool of loans and other assets.These underlying assets serve as collateral if the loan goes into default.The tranches of CDOs indicate the level of risk in the underlying loans, with senior tranches having the lowest risk. CDOs backed by risky subprime mortgages were one of the causes of the financial crisis between 2007 and 2009.Though risky and not for all investors, CDOs are a viable tool for diversifying risk and creating more liquid capital for investment banks.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDOs)  

The earliest CDOs were constructed in 1987 by the former investment bank Drexel Burnham Lambert, where Michael Milken, then called the "junk bond king," reigned. The Drexel bankers created these early CDOs by assembling portfolios of junk bonds, issued by different companies. CDOs are called "collateralized" because the promised repayments of the underlying assets are the collateral that gives the CDOs their value.



To create a CDO, investment banks gather cash flow-generating assets—such as mortgages, bonds, and other types of debt—and repackage them into discrete classes, or tranches based on the level of credit risk assumed by the investor.



These tranches of securities become the final investment products, bonds, whose names can reflect their specific underlying assets. For example, mortgage-backed securities (MBS)are comprised of mortgage loans, and asset-backed securities (ABS) contain corporate debt, auto loans, or credit card debt.



Other types of CDOs include collateralized bond obligations (CBOs)—investment-grade bonds that are backed by a pool of high-yield but lower-rated bonds, and collateralized loan obligations (CLOs)—single securities that are backed by a pool of debt, that often contain corporate loans with a low credit rating. 



Collateralized debt obligations are complicated, and numerous professionals have a hand in creating them:



Securities firms, who approve the selection of collateral, structure the notes into tranches and sell them to investorsCDO managers, who select the collateral and often manage the CDO portfoliosRating agencies, who assess the CDOs and assign them credit ratingsFinancial guarantors, who promise to reimburse investors for any losses on the CDO tranches in exchange for premium paymentsInvestors such as pension funds and hedge funds



Ultimately, other securities firms launched CDOs containing other assets that had more predictable income streams. These included automobile loans, student loans, credit card receivables, and aircraft leases. However, CDOs remained a niche product until 2003–2004, during the U.S. housing boom. Issuers of CDOs turned their attention to subprime mortgage-backed securities as a new source of collateral for CDOs.






   CDO Structure  

The tranches of CDOs are named to reflect their risk profiles; for example, senior debt, mezzanine debt, and junior debt—pictured in the sample below along with their Standard and Poor's (S&P) credit ratings. But the actual structure varies depending on the individual product.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang



In the table, note that the higher the credit rating, the lower the coupon rate (rate of interest the bond pays annually). If the loan defaults, the senior bondholders get paid first from the collateralized pool of assets, followed by bondholders in the other tranches according to their credit ratings; the lowest-rated credit is paid last.



The senior tranches are generally safest because they have the first claim on the collateral. Although the senior debt is usually rated higher than the junior tranches, it offers lower coupon rates. Conversely, the junior debt offers higher coupons (more interest) to compensate for their greater risk of default; but because they are riskier, they generally come with lower credit ratings.






Senior Debt = Higher credit rating, but lower interest rates. Junior Debt = Lower credit rating, but higher interest rates.


   CDOs and the Subprime Mortgage Crisis  

Collateralized debt obligations exploded in popularity in the early 2000s, when issuers began to use securities backed by subprime mortgages as collateral. CDO sales rose almost tenfold, from $30 billion in 2003 to $225 billion in 2006.






A subprime mortgage is one held by a borrower with a low credit rating, which indicates that they might be at a higher risk of default on their loan.



These subprime mortgages often had no or very low down payments, and many did not require proof of income. To offset the risk lenders were taking on, they often used tools such as adjustable-rate mortgages, in which the interest rate increased over the life of the loan.



There was little government regulation of this market, and ratings agencies were able to make investing in these mortgage-backed securities look attractive and low-risk to investors. CDOs increased the demand for mortgage-backed securities, which increased the number of subprime mortgages that lenders were willing and able to sell. Without the demand from CDOs, lenders would not have been able to make so many loans to subprime borrowers.



Some banking executives and investors did realize that a number of the subprime mortgages that backed their investments had been designed to fail. But the general consensus was that as long real estate prices continued to go up, both investors and borrowers would be bailed out. However, prices did not continue to rise; the housing bubble burst and prices declined steeply. Subprime borrowers found themselves underwater on homes that were worth less than what they owed on their mortgages. This led to a high rate of defaults.



The correction in the U.S. housing market triggered an implosion in the CDO market, which was backed by these subprime mortgages. CDOs became one of the worst-performing instruments in the subprime meltdown, which began in 2007 and peaked in 2009. The bursting of the CDO bubble inflicted losses running into hundreds of billions of dollars for some of the largest financial services institutions.



These losses resulted in the investment banks either going bankrupt or being bailed out via government intervention. This impacted the housing market, stock market, and other financial institutions, and helped to escalate the global financial crisis, the Great Recession, during this period.



Despite their role in the financial crisis, collateralized debt obligations are still an active area of structured finance investing. CDOs and the even more infamous synthetic CDOs are still in use, as ultimately they are a tool for shifting risk and freeing up capital—two of the outcomes that investors depend on Wall Street to accomplish, and for which Wall Street has always had an appetite.


   Benefits of CDOs  

Like all types of assets, CDOs have benefits as well as drawbacks. Their role in the housing bubble and the subprime mortgage crisis was the result of their main disadvantages: complexity, which made them difficult to value accurately; and being vulnerable to repayment risk, particularly from subprime borrowers.



However, there are also two main benefits:



Diversification: Because the debt bundled in a CDO is spread over many mortgages or other loans, investors are exposed to a range of risks. As long as not all the loans used as collateral are subprime loans, there is an element of diversification in each CDO.Liquidity: A single bond or loan is a relatively illiquid asset for a bank to hold. A CDO, however, turns those into liquid assets. Holding more liquid assets means banks can expand their lending and generate more revenue.




How Are Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDO) Created?
To create a collateralized debt obligation (CDO), investment banks gather cash flow-generating assets—such as mortgages, bonds, and other types of debt—and repackage them into discrete classes, or tranches based on the level of credit risk assumed by the investor. These tranches of securities become the final investment products, bonds, whose names can reflect their specific underlying assets.




What Should the Different CDO Tranches Tell an Investor?
The tranches of a CDO reflect their risk profiles. For example, senior debt would have a higher credit rating than mezzanine and junior debt. If the loan defaults, the senior bondholders get paid first from the collateralized pool of assets, followed by bondholders in the other tranches according to their credit ratings with the lowest-rated credit paid last. The senior tranches are generally safest because they have the first claim on the collateral. 




What Is a Synthetic CDO?
A synthetic CDO is a type of collateralized debt obligation (CDO) that invests in noncash assets that can offer extremely high yields to investors. However, they differ from traditional CDOs, which typically invest in regular debt products such as bonds, mortgages, and loans, in that they generate income by investing in noncash derivatives such as credit default swaps (CDSs), options, and other contracts. Synthetic CDOs are typically divided into credit tranches based on the level of credit risk assumed by the investor.


   The Bottom Line  

A collateralized debt obligation (CDO) is a structured finance product that is backed by a pool of loans and other assets. It can be held by a financial institution and sold to investors. The tranches of a CDO tell investors what level of risk they are taking on, with senior having the highest credit rating, then mezzanine, then junior. In the case of a default on the underlying loan, senior bondholders are paid from the pool of collateral assets first and junior bondholders last.



During the housing bubble in the early 2000s, CDOs held huge bundles of subprime mortgages. When the housing bubble burst and subprime borrowers went into default at high rates, the CDO market went into a meltdown. This caused many investment banks to either go bankrupt or be bailed out by the government. Despite this, CDOs are still in use by investment banks today.
What Is a Collateralized Loan Obligation (CLO)?  

A collateralized loan obligation (CLO) is a single security backed by a pool of debt. The process of pooling assets into a marketable security is called securitization. Collateralized loan obligations (CLO) are often backed by corporate loans with low credit ratings or loans taken out by private equity firms to conduct leveraged buyouts. A collateralized loan obligation is similar to a collateralized mortgage obligation (CMO), except that the underlying debt is of a different type and character—a company loan instead of a mortgage.





Key Takeaways

A collateralized loan obligation (CLO) is a single security backed by a pool of debt.CLOs are often corporate loans with low credit ratings or loans taken out by private equity firms to conduct leveraged buyouts.With a CLO, the investor receives scheduled debt payments from the underlying loans, assuming most of the risk if borrowers default.












Investopedia / Candra Huff


   How Collateralized Loan Obligations (CLOs) Work  

A CLO is a bundle of loans that are ranked below investment grade. They are usually first-lien bank loans to businesses that are initially sold to a CLO manager and consolidated into bundles of 150 to 250 loans. To fund the purchase of new debt, the CLO manager sells stakes in the CLO to outside investors in a structure called tranches.



With a CLO, the investor receives scheduled debt payments from the underlying loans, assuming most of the risk in the event that borrowers default. In exchange for taking on the default risk, the investor is offered greater diversity and the potential for higher-than-average returns. A default is when a borrower fails to make payments on a loan or mortgage for an extended period of time.



Each tranche is a piece of the CLO. The order of the tranches dictates who will be paid out first when the underlying loan payments are made. It also dictates the risk associated with each investment since investors who are paid last have a higher risk of default from the underlying loans. Investors who are paid out first have lower overall risk, but they receive smaller interest payments, as a result. Investors who are in later tranches may be paid last, but the interest payments are higher to compensate for the risk.



A CLO is an actively managed instrument: managers can—and do—buy and sell individual bank loans in the underlying collateral pool in an effort to score gains and minimize losses. In addition, most of a CLO's debt is backed by high-quality collateral, making liquidation less likely, and making it better equipped to withstand market volatility.


   Types of CLO Tranches  

There are two types of tranches: debt tranches and equity tranches. Debt tranches, also called mezzanine tranches, are treated just like bonds and have credit ratings and coupon payments. These debt tranches come first in terms of repayment, and there is also a pecking order within the debt tranches.



Equity tranches do not have credit ratings and are paid out after all debt tranches. Equity tranches are rarely paid a cash flow but do offer ownership in the CLO itself in the event of a sale. Because equity tranche investors usually face higher risks, they often receive higher returns than debt tranche investors.






CLOs offer higher-than-average returns because an investor is assuming more risk by buying low-rated debt.






   CLO Structure  

A CLO consists of several debt tranches, ranked according to the creditworthiness of the underlying loans. The lowest tier is the equity tranche, representing ownership of the underlying collateral.








Structure of a CLO




 AAA Tranche


 AA Tranche


 A Tranche


BBB Tranche


BB Tranche


Equity Tranche






As the CLO enters the repayment phase, investors in higher-ranked tranches are paid first, followed by lower tranches. Lower-ranked tranches have higher risk profiles, but also higher potential returns. In the lowest tier, the equity tranche, investors receive any additional cash flow after the debt investors are paid.



Equity tranche investors also have a degree of control over the CLO that is not available to debt investors. For example, they have options to refinance the underlying CLO loans or reset the reinvestment period.


   CLO Process  

Here's an over-simplied overview of how CLOs are created:



Step 1: Establish the Capital Structure. The first step to creating a CLO is establishing a capital structure, meaning the different levels of debt and equity underlying the security. A typical CLO has several debt tranches and an equity tranche, representing ownership of the underlying collateral.



Step 2: Seek Capital. The next step is to raise capital from investors, which is used to buy loans underlying the security. Each investor will contribute to a different loan tranche, with riskier tranches offering higher returns.



Step 3: Choose Tranches. As investors commit capital, they also have the opportunity to choose a tranche that meets their risk and return appetite.



Step 4: Purchase Loans. The CLO manager will use the capital from investors buy loans. The CLO manager can reinvest loan proceeds to improve the portfolio, either by buying additional collateral or selling poorly-performing loans. At this stage, an underwriter analyzes the loan pool and assesses the creditworthiness of the borrowers. The underwriter also determines the appropriate structure and size of the CLO transaction.



Step 5: Create Special Purpose Vehicle. Most often, a special purpose vehicle (SPV) is created to issue the CLO securities. The SPV is usually designed to protect the investors in case of default.



Step 6: Pay Investors. Ultimately, the CLO will begin repaying investors with a spread that has been pre-determined for each tranche at the time of closing. Afterward, holders of the equity tranche can call or refinance the loan tranches. Eventually, the CLO begins to deleverage. As the underlying loans are paid off, the CLO manager will repay the investors, starting with the most senior tranche. Any remaining proceeds will go to the equity tranche holders.



Step 7: Termination. The CLO transaction may terminate when all of the securities have been repaid or when the underlying loans have been paid off or sold. At this point, any special purpose vehicles are dissolved and any remaining assets are distributed to the investors.


   Benefits of a CLO  

There are a variety of benefits of a CLO, including but not limited to:



Portfolio Diversification: CLOs can provide investors with exposure to a diversified pool of loans made to non-investment grade borrowers. This can help to reduce the risk of default associated with any individual loan or borrower.
Higher Yields: CLOs typically offer higher yields than other fixed-income investments such as government bonds or investment-grade corporate bonds. This is because the loans underlying the CLOs are made to non-investment grade borrowers and are therefore considered to be riskier.
Credit Enhancement: CLOs are structured with tranches with different levels of credit risk. This credit enhancement can provide additional protection to investors in the senior tranches against losses due to defaults in the underlying loans.
Stronger Liquidity: CLO securities are typically more liquid than the underlying loans as they can be bought and sold in the secondary market. This can make it easier for investors to manage their portfolios and exit their positions when needed.
Professionally Management: The collateral manager is responsible for managing the loan pool that backs the CLO securities, which can provide investors with access to professional management and expertise in the credit markets.


   Risks to Consider  

With those benefits in mind, there are also a number of downsides to CLOs. Those risks include but aren't limited to:



Higher Credit Risk: CLOs are exposed to credit risk associated with the underlying loans. These loans are typically made to non-investment grade borrowers, which means they are more likely to default. A sudden increase in loan defaults could cause significant losses for investors.
Residual Liquidity Risk: Although CLO securities are generally more liquid than the underlying loans, they are still subject to liquidity risk. During times of market stress, it may be difficult to find a buyer for CLO securities, which could make it challenging for investors to sell their holdings or exit their positions.
Higher Interest Rate Risk: CLOs are typically structured as fixed-income securities with a set interest rate. If interest rates rise, the value of these securities may decline.
Prepayment Risk: The underlying loans in CLOs can be prepaid, which means the borrower pays off the loan earlier than expected. This can negatively impact the returns of CLO investors, particularly if they were counting on a certain level of interest income over a longer period.
Complexity: CLOs can be complex investment vehicles, with multiple tranches, different levels of credit risk, and varying payment structures. This complexity can make it difficult for investors to fully understand the risks involved and make informed investment decisions.


   Risky Asset?  

Some argue that a CLO isn't that risky. Research conducted by Guggenheim Investments, an asset management firm, found that from 1994 to 2013, CLOs experienced significantly lower default rates than corporate bonds. Only 0.03% of tranches defaulted from 1994 to 2019. Even so, they are sophisticated investments, and typically only large institutional investors purchase tranches in a CLO.



In other words, companies of scale, such as insurance companies, quickly purchase senior-level debt tranches to ensure low risk and steady cash flow. Mutual funds and ETFs normally purchase junior-level debt tranches with higher risk and higher interest payments. If an individual investor invests in a mutual fund with junior debt tranches, that investor takes on the proportional risk of default.




What Is a Collateralized Loan Obligation (CLO)?
A Collateralized Loan Obligation (CLO) is a type of security that allows investors to purchase an interest in a diversified portfolio of company loans. The company selling the CLO will purchase a large number of corporate loans from borrowers such as private companies and private equity firms, and will then package those loans into a single CLO security. The CLO is then sold off to investors in a variety of pieces, called “tranches”, with each tranche offering its own risk-reward characteristics.




What Is the Difference Between a Debt Tranche and an Equity Tranche?
There are two main types of tranches used when selling a CLO: debt tranches and equity tranches. Debt tranches, also called mezzanine, are those that offer the investor a specified stream of interest and principal payments, similar to those offered by other debt instruments such as debentures or corporate bonds.Equity tranches, on the other hand, do not pay scheduled cash flows to the investor, but instead offer a share of the value of the CLO if the CLO is re-sold in the future. Within each of these categories, many different tranches might be available, with the riskier tranches offering higher potential returns.




What Is the Difference Between a CLO and a Collateralized Mortgage Obligation (CMO)?
CLOs are similar to Collateralized Mortgage Obligations (CMOs), in that both securities are based on a large portfolio of underlying debt instruments. The main difference between them, however, is that CLOs are based on debts owed by corporations, whereas CMOs are based on mortgage loans. Both CLOs and CMOs are examples of credit derivatives.


   The Bottom Line  

A CLO, or collateralized loan obligation, is a debt security backed by a pool of debt. Investors can choose one of several debt tranches to put their money into, with higher-risk tranches providing higher returns. Although yields may be higher than average, investors also assume the risk of borrower defaults.
What Is a Collateralized Mortgage Obligation?  

A collateralized mortgage obligation (CMO) refers to a type of mortgage-backed security that contains a pool of mortgages bundled together and sold as an investment. Organized by maturity and level of risk, CMOs receive cash flows as borrowers repay the mortgages that act as collateral on these securities. In turn, CMOs distribute principal and interest payments to their investors based on predetermined rules and agreements.


   Understanding Collateralized Mortgage Obligations (CMO)  

Collateralized mortgage obligations consist of several tranches, or groups of mortgages, organized by their risk profiles. As complex financial instruments, tranches typically have different principal balances, interest rates, maturity dates, and potential of repayment defaults. Collateralized mortgage obligations are sensitive to interest rate changes as well as to changes in economic conditions, such as foreclosure rates, refinance rates, and the rates at which properties are sold. Each tranche has a different maturity date and size and bonds with monthly coupons are issued against it. The coupon makes monthly principal and interest rate payments.





Key Takeaways

Collateralized mortgage obligations are investment debt securities consisting of packaged mortgages organized according to their risk profiles.They are similar to collateralized debt obligations, which are a broader collection of debt obligations across multiple financial instruments.CMOs played a prominent role during the 2008 financial crisis when they ballooned in size.



To illustrate, imagine an investor has a CMO made up of thousands of mortgages. Their potential for profit is based on whether the mortgage holders repay their mortgages. If only a few homeowners default on their mortgages and the rest make payments as expected, the investor recoups their principal as well as interest. In contrast, if thousands of people cannot make their mortgage payments and go into foreclosure, the CMO loses money and cannot pay the investor.



Investors in CMOs, sometimes referred to as Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits (REMICs), want to obtain access to mortgage cash flows without having to originate or purchase a set of mortgages.


   Collateralized Mortgage Obligations vs. Collateralized Debt Obligations  

Like CMOs, collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) consist of a group of loans bundled together and sold as an investment vehicle. However, whereas CMOs only contain mortgages, CDOs contain a range of loans such as car loans, credit cards, commercial loans, and even mortgages. Both CDOs and CMOs peaked in 2007 just before the global financial crisis, and their values fell sharply after that time. For example, at its peak in 2007, the CDO market was worth $1.3 trillion, compared to $850 million in 2013.






Organizations that purchase CMOs include hedge funds, banks, insurance companies and mutual funds.


   Collateralized Mortgage Obligations and the Global Financial Crisis  

First issued by Salomon Brothers and First Boston in 1983, CMOs were complex and involved many different mortgages. For many reasons, investors were more likely to focus on the income streams offered by CMOs rather than the health of the underlying mortgages themselves. As a result, many investors purchased CMOs full of subprime mortgages, adjustable-rate mortgages, mortgages held by borrowers whose income wasn't verified during the application process, and other risky mortgages with high risks of default.



The use of CMOs has been criticized as a precipitating factor in the 2007-2008 financial crisis. Rising housing prices made mortgages look like fail-proof investments, enticing investors to buy CMOs and other MBSs, but market and economic conditions led to a rise in foreclosures and payment risks that financial models did not accurately predict. The aftermath of the global financial crisis resulted in increased regulations for mortgage-backed securities. Most recently, in December 2016, the SEC and FINRA introduced new regulations that mitigate the risk of these securities by creating margin requirements for covered agency transactions, including collateralized mortgage obligations.
A collection agency is a company used by lenders or creditors to recover funds that are past due or from accounts that are in default. Often, a creditor will hire a collection agency after it has made multiple failed attempts to collect its receivables. A lender may outsource the debt-collection activity to a collection agency, or it may have an internal department or a debt-collection subsidiary that would handle the job.





Key Takeaways

A collection agency is a company that lenders use to recover funds that are past due or from accounts that are in default.Collection agencies work closely with lenders to try to retrieve delinquent funds.Collection agencies are regulated by the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) and bound by rules about what they can and cannot do to collect funds.


   How a Collection Agency Works  

Creditors often will hire a collection agency after a borrower is 60–90 days or more past due with a debt. The delinquency typically will be reported to the three major credit bureaus—Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. Reputable collection agencies abide by the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) when it comes to contacting you and trying to collect the debt.





Note

While creditors sometimes hire collection agencies to collect debt on their behalf, they also sometimes sell debt, often for substantially less than the amount of the debt. In these cases, the collection agency becomes the new creditor.


  When a Borrower Pays  

If the borrower pays the debt as a result of the collection agency's efforts, then the creditor pays the collection agency a percentage of the funds, or assets, that it recovers, depending on the terms of the agreement.


  When a Borrower Does Not Pay  

If the borrower will not or cannot cover their arrearage, the collection agency can update the borrower’s credit report with a "collection" status, which leads to a drop in the individual’s credit score. A low credit score can affect a person's chances of obtaining a loan in the long term, as an account under debt collection can remain on their credit report for seven years.



Collection agencies deploy multiple strategies to try to retrieve funds, such as the following:



Calling the debtor’s personal and office telephonesMailing numerous late-payment notices to the debtorContacting a debtor’s family, friends, and neighbors to confirm the debtor’s contact informationAppearing at the individual’s front door


   Debt Collection Agency Regulations  

Third-party collection agencies—but not creditors' in-house collection departments—are bound by the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA), of which some rules are cited below.



A debt collector may not do the following:



Proceed to collect an old debt that has been charged off as "uncollectible"—the debtor has either filed for bankruptcy or cannot be locatedLegally seize assets from a debtor—unless the collection agency has won a lawsuit against a debtorPhysically harm or threaten to harm a debtor in an attempt to extract a paymentContact an individual at work if they have explicitly stated that their employer does not approve of such calls



A debt collector may, however, do the following:



Attempt to collect a debt on which the statute of limitations—usually between four and six years from the first day of default—has run out if you live in a state that allows this practice.
Call an individual between 8 a.m. and 9 p.m. only
Contact the debtor’s employer about overdue child support and alimony, federal student loans, or taxes


   Frequently Asked Questions  


What Does a Collection Agency Do to You?
A collection agency can sue you for the debt you owe. If the debt collector wins the lawsuit, it also can get a court order to take money from your bank accounts or your paychecks.




What Happens if You Don't Pay a Collection Agency?
If the collection agency has a court order against you, you could be arrested if you do not comply. As part of a lawsuit you might be required to provide financial information or to testify. Failing to so so also could lead to a warrant for your arrest.




Is it Worth Paying a Collection Agency?
It depends on the specifics of your situation. If you can afford the debt you owe to the collection agency, it likely is in your best interests to pay the debt. Taking care of the debt can help you begin to repair any damage the debt did to your credit, and it helps you avoid a lawsuit. However, if you have more debt than you can handle, it is advisable to seek professional legal and financial assistance to determine if filing for bankruptcy is your best course of action.


   The Bottom Line  

Companies sometimes will outsource collection efforts on past due accounts. While this can be a cost-effective approach for creditors, being contacted by a collection agency can be stressful for those owing the debt. In most cases, it is best to pay the debt as quickly as possible if you are contacted and do, in fact, owe the debt. Failing to act quickly can damage your credit score further and possibly lead to a lawsuit. Keep in mind, though, that collection agencies are bound by the FDCPA, so it's also a good idea to familiarize yourself with the rights you are afforded if contacted by a collection agency.
What Is Collusion?  

Collusion is a non-competitive, secret, and sometimes illegal agreement between rivals which attempts to disrupt the market's equilibrium. The act of collusion involves people or companies which would typically compete against one another, but who conspire to work together to gain an unfair market advantage. The colluding parties may collectively choose to influence the market supply of a good or agree to a specific pricing level which will help the partners maximize their profits at the detriment of other competitors. It is common among duopolies.





Key Takeaways

Collusion occurs when entities or individuals work together to influence a market or pricing for their own advantage.Acts of collusion include price fixing, synchronized advertising, and sharing insider information.Antitrust and whistleblower laws help to deter collusion.


   Types of Collusion Explained  

Collusion can take many forms across different market types. In each scenario, groups collectively obtain an unfair advantage. One of the most common ways of colluding is price fixing. Price fixing occurs when there are a small number of companies, commonly referred to as an oligopoly, in a particular supply marketplace. This limited number of businesses offer the same product and form an agreement to set the price level. Prices may be forcibly lowered to drive out smaller competitors or may have an inflated level to support the interest of the group at a disadvantage to the buyer. Overall, price fixing can eliminate or reduce competition while also leading to even higher barriers for new entrants.



Collusion may also happen if companies synchronize their advertising campaigns. In this case, the partnering businesses may wish to limit the consumers’ knowledge about a product or service for an added advantage.



In the financial industry, collective partnering through the use of insider information can also be a type of collusion. Colluding groups may have the opportunity to gain several advantages through the sharing of private or preliminary information with one another. This financial collusion can allow the parties to enter and exit trades before the shared information is publicly available.


   Factors That Deter Collusion  

In the United States, collusion is an illegal practice which significantly deters its use. Antitrust laws aim to prevent collusion between companies. Thus, it is complicated to coordinate and execute an agreement to collude. Further, in industries which have strict supervision, it is difficult for companies to partake in collusion.



Defection is another key deterrent of collusion. A company which initially agrees to take part in a collusion agreement may defect and undercut the profits of the remaining members. Additionally, the company that defects may act as a whistleblower and report the collusion to the appropriate authorities.


   Real World Example  

As reported by Fortune, in 2015, a New York appeals court upheld a 2013 ruling against tech behemoth Apple. The multinational technology giant appealed the lower court's finding that the company had illegally conspired with five of the biggest book publishers on the pricing of ebooks. The New York appeals court found in favor of the plaintiffs. The company’s goals were to promote Apple’s new iPad and to prevent Amazon from undercutting its title prices of ebooks. The case led to a $450 million settlement in which Apple paid purchasers twice their losses.
What Is the Combined Loan-to-Value (CLTV) Ratio?  

The combined loan-to-value (CLTV) ratio is the ratio of all secured loans on a property to the value of a property. Lenders use the CLTV ratio to determine a prospective borrower's risk of default when more than one loan is used.



The CLTV differs from the simple loan-to-value (LTV) ratio in that the LTV only includes the first or primary mortgage in its calculation.





Key Takeaways

CLTV ratio is the ratio of all loans on a property to the property's value.Lenders consider CLTV ratios in determining the risk of a borrower defaulting.In general, most lenders are willing to lend to borrowers with strong credit scores and CLTV ratios of 80% and below.The real estate bubble of 2008-2009 underscored the relevance of keeping an eye on CLTV ratios.


   Formula and Calculation of the CLTV Ratio  

A CLTV ratio is calculated by dividing the amount of all loans on the property, including the one you are applying for, by its value. It is expressed as a percentage. In general, lenders are willing to lend at CLTV ratios of 80% and below to borrowers with high credit ratings. The following formula can be used to calculate combined loan-to-value (CLTV) ratio:















CLTV


=




VL1


+


VL2


+


⋯


+


VLn



Total Value of the Property

















where:
















VL


=


Value of loan







\begin{aligned}&\text{CLTV}=\frac{\text{VL1}+\text{VL2}+\dots+\text{VLn}}{\text{Total Value of the Property}}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{VL}=\text{Value of loan}\end{aligned}


​CLTV=Total Value of the PropertyVL1+VL2+⋯+VLn​where:VL=Value of loan​


   What the CLTV Ratio Shows  

Combined loan-to-value (CLTV) ratio is a calculation used by mortgage and lending professionals to determine the total percentage of a homeowner's property that has liens (debt obligations) compared to the value of the property. Lenders use the CLTV ratio along with a handful of other calculations, such as the debt-to-income ratio and the standard loan-to-value (LTV) ratio, to assess the risk of extending a loan to a borrower.



Many economists consider relaxed CLTV standards to be one of the factors that contributed to the foreclosure crisis that plagued the United States during the late 2000s. Beginning in the 1990s and especially during the early and mid-2000s, homebuyers frequently took out second mortgages at the time of purchase in lieu of making down payments. Lenders eager not to lose these customers' business to competitors agreed to such terms despite the increased risk.



Before the real estate bubble that expanded from the late 1990s to the mid-2000s, the standard practice was for homebuyers to make down payments totaling at least 20% of the purchase price. Most lenders kept customers within these parameters by capping LTV at 80%.



When the bubble began to heat up, many of these same companies took steps to allow customers to get around putting 20% down. Some lenders raised LTV caps or did away with them completely, offering mortgages with 5% down payments or less, while others kept LTV requirements in place but raised CLTV caps, often to 100%. This maneuver enabled customers to take out second mortgages to finance their 20% down payments.



The foreclosure spike beginning in 2008 underscored why CLTV is important. Having skin in the game, such as a $100,000 initial cash outlay for a $500,000 house, provides a homeowner with a powerful incentive to keep up with mortgage payments. If the bank forecloses, a homeowner not only loses their home but also the pile of cash they paid to close on the property. Requiring equity in the property also insulates lenders from a dip in real estate prices.


   Special Considerations  

Some homebuyers choose to lower their down payment by receiving multiple mortgages on a property, which results in a lower loan-to-value ratio for the primary mortgage. Also, because of the lower LTV ratio, many homebuyers successfully avoid private mortgage insurance (PMI). Whether it is better to obtain a second mortgage or incur the cost of PMI depends on the particular circumstances of the borrower.






Consequently, because the second mortgagor assumes more risk, the interest rate on a second mortgage is typically higher than the interest rate on a first mortgage.


   Example of a CLTV Ratio  

Let's say you are purchasing a home for $200,000. To secure the property, you provided a down payment of $50,000 and received two mortgages: one for $100,000 (primary) and one for $50,000 (secondary). Your combined loan-to-value ratio (CLTV) is 75%: (($100,000 + $50,000) / $200,000).


   Loan-to-Value vs. CLTV  

Loan-to-value (LTV) and CLTV are two of the most common ratios used during the mortgage underwriting process. Most lenders impose maximums on both values, above which the prospective borrower is not eligible for a loan. The LTV ratio considers only the primary mortgage balance, while the CLTV factors in all loans on the property, such as home equity loans and home equity lines of credit (HELOCs).



Most lenders impose LTV maximums of 80%. Borrowers with good credit profiles can circumvent this requirement but must pay private mortgage insurance (PMI) as long as their primary loan balance is greater than 80% of the home's value. PMI protects the lender, not the borrower, from losses when a home's value falls below the loan balance.



Primary lenders tend to be more generous with CLTV requirements. Considering the example above, in the event of a foreclosure, the primary mortgage holder receives its money in full before the second mortgage holder receives anything. If the property value decreases to $125,000 before the borrower defaults, the primary lien-holder receives the entire amount owed ($100,000), while the second lien-holder only receives the remaining $25,000 despite being owed $50,000. The primary lien-holder shoulders less risk in the case of declining property values and can afford to lend at a higher CLTV.




How Does My CLTV Ratio Impact Rates?
In general, a borrower with a high CLTV ratio is considered to be a higher risk by a lender. This could result in the loan being denied or approved but at a higher interest rate.




What Is a Good CLTV Ratio?
Lenders generally like to see a CLTV ratio of 80% or less. Borrowers will also need good credit scores.




What Loans Does a CLTV Ratio Include?
When calculating a CLTV ratio, lenders include all secured loans on the property. This includes first mortgages, second mortgages, home equity loans, and home equity lines of credit (HELOCs).


   The Bottom Line  

Borrowers should always consider the advantages and disadvantages of taking out multiple loans on one property. Exercising due diligence will help ensure that what is chosen is the best option for the given circumstances.
What Is the Combined Ratio?  

The combined ratio, also called "the combined ratio after policyholder dividends ratio," is a measure of profitability used by an insurance company to gauge how well it is performing in its daily operations. The combined ratio is calculated by taking the sum of incurred losses and expenses and then dividing them by the earned premium.


   The Formula for the Combined Ratio Is  

﻿















Combined Ratio


=




Incurred Losses


+


Expenses




Earned Premium










\begin{aligned} &\text{Combined Ratio} = \frac{ \text{Incurred Losses} + \text{Expenses} }{ \text{Earned Premium} } \\ \end{aligned}


​Combined Ratio=Earned PremiumIncurred Losses+Expenses​​﻿












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   What Does the Combined Ratio Tell You?  

The combined ratio measures the money flowing out of an insurance company in the form of dividends, expenses, and losses. Losses indicate the insurer's discipline in underwriting policies. The expense ratio gauges the efficiency of an insurer and how well it uses its resources to drive top-line growth. The combined ratio is arguably the most important of these three ratios because it provides a comprehensive measure of an insurer's profitability.



The combined ratio is typically expressed as a percentage. A ratio below 100 percent indicates that the company is making an underwriting profit, while a ratio above 100 percent means that it is paying out more money in claims that it is receiving from premiums. Even if the combined ratio is above 100 percent, a company can potentially still be profitable because the ratio does not include investment income.



Many insurance companies believe that the combined ratio is the best way to measure success because it does not include investment income and only includes profit earned through efficient management. This is important to note since a portion of dividends will be invested in equities, bonds, and other securities. The investment income ratio (investment income divided by net premiums earned) takes investment income into account and is used in the calculation of the overall operating ratio.





Key Takeaways

The combined ratio is a measure of profitability used by an insurance company to gauge how well it is performing in its daily operations.The combined ratio is typically expressed as a percentage. A ratio below 100 percent indicates that the company is making an underwriting profit, while a ratio above 100 percent means that it is paying out more money in claims that it is receiving from premiums. Many insurance companies believe that the combined ratio is the best way to measure success because it does not include investment income and only includes profit earned through efficient management.


   Examples of the Combined Ratio  

As a hypothetical example, if an insurer collects $1,000 in policy premiums and pays out $800 in claims and claim-related expenses, plus another $150 in operating expenses, it would have a combined ratio of (800 + 150) / 1,000 = 95%.



Let's take another example: insurance company ZYX has incurred underwriting expenses of $10 million, incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses of $15 million, net written premiums of $30 million and earned premiums of $25 million. We can calculate ZYX's financial basis combined ratio by adding the incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses with the incurred underwriting expenses. The financial basis combined ratio is 1, or 100% (($10 million + $15 million) / $25 million).



The financial basis gives a snapshot of the current year's statutory financial statements. We can also calculate the combined ratio on a trade basis, where you divide the incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses by earned premiums and add to the incurred underwriting expenses divided by net written premiums. The trade basis combined ratio of insurance company XYZ is 0.93, or 93% = ($15 million / $25 million + $10 million / $30 million).


   The Difference Between the Combined Ratio and the Loss Ratio  

The loss ratio measures the total incurred losses in relation to the total collected insurance premiums, while the combined ratio measures the incurred losses and expenses in relation to the total collected premiums. The combined ratio is essentially calculated by adding the loss ratio and expense ratio.



The loss ratio is calculated by dividing the total incurred losses by the total collected insurance premiums. The lower the ratio, the more profitable the insurance company and vice versa. If the loss ratio is above 1, or 100%, the insurance company is likely to be unprofitable and may be in poor financial health because it is paying out more in claims than it is receiving in premiums.


   Limitations of the Combined Ratio  

The components of the combined ratio each tell a story and should be examined both together and separately in order to understand what is driving the insurer to be profitable or unprofitable. Policy dividends are generated from the premiums generated from the insurer’s underwriting activities.



The loss and loss-adjustment ratio demonstrate how much it costs the insurer to offer one dollar of protection. The expense ratio shows how expensive it is to generate new business since it takes into account commissions, salaries, overhead, benefits, and operating costs. (For related reading, see "How Do I Calculate the Combined Ratio?")
What Is a Command Economy?  

A command economy is a key aspect of a political system in which a central governmental authority dictates the levels of production that are permissible and the prices that may be charged for goods and services. Most industries are publicly owned.



The main alternative to a command economy is a free market system in which demand dictates production and prices.



The command economy is a component of a communist political system, while a free market system exists in capitalist societies.





Key Takeaways

In a command economy, the central government dictates the level of production of goods and controls their distribution and prices.Proponents of command economies argue government control rather than private enterprise can ensure the fair distribution of goods and services.In a free market system, private enterprises set production and price levels based on demand.


   Understanding Command Economy  

Cuba, North Korea, and the former Soviet Union all have command economies. China maintained a command economy until 1978 when it began its transition to a mixed economy that blends communist and capitalist elements. Its current system has been described as a socialist market economy.



The command economy, also known as a planned economy, requires that a nation's central government own and control the means of production.



Private ownership of land and capital is nonexistent or severely limited. Central planners set prices, control production levels, and limit or prohibit competition within the private sector. In a pure command economy, there is no private sector, as the central government owns or controls all business.



In a command economy, government officials set national economic priorities, including how and when to generate economic growth, how to allocate resources, and how to distribute the output. This often takes the form of a multi-year plan.


  Arguments Against Command Economies  

Any capitalist would argue that command economies face at least two major problems: first is the incentive problem and second is an information vacuum among the central planners making all the decisions.



The Incentive Problem



The incentive problem starts at the top. Policymakers, even in a command economy, are all too human. Political interest groups and the power struggles between them will dominate policymaking in a command economy even more than in capitalist economies because they are not constrained by market-based forms of discipline such as sovereign credit ratings or capital flight.



Wages are set centrally for workers, and profits are eliminated as an incentive for management. There is no apparent reason to produce excellence, improve efficiency, control costs, or contribute effort beyond the minimum required to avoid official sanction.



Getting ahead in a command economy requires pleasing the party bosses and having the right connections rather than maximizing shareholder value or meeting consumer demands. Corruption tends to be pervasive.



The incentive problem includes the issue known as the tragedy of the commons on a larger scale than is seen in capitalist societies. Resources that are commonly owned are effectively unowned. All of their users (or workers) lack any incentive to preserve them. Things such as housing developments, factories, and machinery wear out, break down, and fall apart rapidly in a command economy. 



 The Information Vacuum



The problem of economic calculation in a command economy was first described by Austrian economists Ludwig von Mises and F. A. Hayek. Central planners must somehow calculate how much of every product and service should be produced and delivered.



In a free market system, this is determined in a decentralized manner through the interaction of supply and demand. Consumers shape demand by the products and services they buy or don't buy. Producers respond by creating more of the products and services that consumers demand.



Moreover, all of these factors are quantifiable. At every step of the supply chain, someone is keeping count of the number of avocados, pairs of blue jeans, and lug wrenches that are in demand out there.



In a command economy, central planners should, at least initially, have a grasp on the basic life-or-death needs of the population in terms of food, clothing, and shelter. But without the forces of supply and demand to guide them, they have no rational method to align the production and distribution of goods with consumer wants and preferences.



Over time, the incentive and economic calculation problems of a command economy mean that resources and capital goods are wasted, and the society is impoverished.


   Arguments in Favor of Command Economies  

Proponents of command economies argue that they allocate resources to maximize social welfare, unlike in free-market economies, where this goal is secondary to maximizing private profit.



Command economies may have better control of employment levels than free-market economies. They can create jobs to put people to work when necessary, even in the absence of a legitimate need.



Lastly, command economies are seen as better able to take decisive, coordinated action in the face of a national emergency or crisis such as a war or natural disaster. Although, even market-based societies may curtail property rights and greatly expand the emergency powers of their central governments during such events, at least temporarily.




What Are the Characteristics of a Command Economy?
Command economies are controlled from the top by government planners. In general, this includes:Public ownership of major industriesGovernment control of production levels and distribution quotasGovernment control of prices and salariesMonopolies are common in command economies as they are considered necessary to meet the goals of the national economy.




How Does a Command Economy Differ From a Free-Market Economy?
In a free-market economy, private enterprises determine their levels of production in response to the law of supply and demand.In a command economy, the decision is dictated by government.Few free-market economies today operate entirely on the principle of laissez-faire. A government may use public policies and regulations to encourage the production of a product, such as fuel-efficient cars.And some command economies have loosened their control. China's economic boom did not begin until it created its own blend of socialist ideology and capitalist enterprise.




How Do Central Plans Work in a Command Economy?
Communist nations with command economies are prone to introducing multi-year plans that are expected to result in improved conditions for all its people. China has had no fewer than 14 five-year plans, with the current one ending in 2025.Central plans generally set goals for each industry and establish strategies for every sector. Industries are required to participate in government objectives such as reducing carbon emissions or revitalizing rural economies.
What Is Commerce?  

Commerce is the exchange of goods or services among two or more parties. It is the subset of business that focuses on the sale of finished or unfinished products rather than their sourcing, manufacturing, transportation, or marketing.



Generally, commerce can refer to an exchange of goods or services for money or something of equal value.



From the broadest perspective, governments are tasked with managing the commerce of their nations in a way that meets the needs of their citizens by providing jobs and producing beneficial goods and services.





Key Takeaways

Commerce began when prehistoric humans started exchanging goods and services for mutual benefit.Today, commerce commonly refers to the large-scale purchases and sales of goods and services.Commerce is a subset of business that focuses on the distribution of goods.Selling a single item is a transaction. All transactions are collectively called commerce.E-commerce is a variation of commerce that entails selling goods and services electronically via the Internet.


   Understanding Commerce  

Commerce has existed from the moment humans started exchanging goods and services with one another. From the early days of bartering to the creation of currencies and the establishment of trade routes, humans have sought ways to facilitate the exchange of goods and services by building a distribution process to bring together sellers and buyers.



Today, the term commerce normally refers to large-scale purchases and sales. The sale or purchase of a single item by a consumer is defined as a transaction, while commerce may refer to all transactions related to the purchase and sale of that item.



Most commerce in modern times is conducted internationally and represents the buying and selling of goods between nations.



Commerce is not synonymous with business but is a subset of it. Commerce does not relate to the sourcing, manufacturing, or production processes but only to the distribution of goods and services. That alone encompasses a number of roles, such as logistical, political, regulatory, legal, social, and economic.


   Commerce vs. Business vs. Trade  

These words are often used interchangeably but they are not the same.


  Business  

Business is any endeavor undertaken for the purpose of making a profit.



It includes selling goods and services, but everyone else involved in the process of creating the product and getting it to a consumer is engaged in business activity.



When you fill up your gas tank at a service station, you are completing a process that started with an oil exploration company locating an oil deposit, continued with a drilling company extracting crude oil, and then went through many stages of transportation, refining, and distribution before it got to your gas tank. A number of people conducted business to get it there.


  Commerce  

Commerce refers specifically to the exchange of products or services between two or more parties. In the above example, you engaged in commerce when you paid to fill up your gas tank.



Along the way, there were other examples of commercial activity. For example, the crude oil was sold in bulk to one or more oil companies. That was a commercial transaction as well.


  Trade  

The distinction between commerce and trade is pretty fine. Both are the direct exchange of goods and services for something of value between two parties. (In modern times, "something of value" means money.)



However, there are some differences in their usage:



Commerce, as in the above example, implies a series of commercial transactions for the purpose of producing a product. The last stage of the commercial process is the sale of a finished product to its consumer.Trade suggests only the final transaction in which a seller provides a finished product and a consumer pays for it. In this sense, trade is a subset of commerce as commerce is a subset of business.


   Regulating Commerce  

When properly managed, commercial activity enhances the standard of living of a nation's citizens and increases its standing in the world. However, when commerce is allowed to run unregulated, large businesses can become too powerful and impose negative externalities on citizens for the benefit of the business owners.



Most nations have established government agencies responsible for promoting and managing commerce, such as the Department of Commerce in the United States.



Large multinational organizations regulate commerce across borders. For example, the World Trade Organization (WTO) and its predecessor, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), established rules for tariffs relating to the import and export of goods between countries. The rules are meant to facilitate commerce and establish a level playing field for member countries.


   The Rise of E-commerce  

The idea of commerce has expanded to include electronic commerce in the 21st century. Electronic commerce, or e-commerce, is defined as any business or commercial transaction that includes the transfer of financial information over the Internet.



E-commerce changed how commerce is conducted. In the past, imports and exports posed logistical hurdles for both the buyer and the seller. Only larger companies with scale in their favor could benefit from export customers.



With the rise of e-commerce, small business owners have a chance to market to international customers and fulfill their orders.



Export management companies help domestic small businesses with the logistics of selling internationally. Export trading companies help small businesses by identifying international buyers and domestic sourcing companies that can fulfill the demand. Import/export merchants purchase goods directly from a domestic or foreign manufacturer, and then they package the goods and resell them on their own as an individual entity, assuming the risk but taking higher profits.




Is Commerce the Same As Business?
The word commerce is not interchangeable with business, but is rather a subset of business. Business includes sourcing, manufacturing, production, and marketing whereas commerce pertains to the distribution side of the business, specifically the distribution of goods and services. 




What Are the Different Types of E-commerce?
There are three distinct types of e-commerce:Business-to-business (B2B) is the direct sale of goods and services between businesses.Retail is the sale of goods and services directly to consumers.Consumer to consumer is the sale of goods and services between individuals, as on eBay or Facebook Marketplace.




What Is E-commerce?
E-commerce is any sale of goods and services that is finalized in a transaction on the Internet.E-commerce is an alternative to transactions that take place in brick-and-mortar stores. Today, many companies offer their customers the choice of online or in-store purchasing.
What Is Commercial?  

Commercial relates to commerce or general business activity. In the investment field, the term commercial is used to refer to commercial trading or an entity engaged in business activities that are hedged by positions in the futures or options markets. Charities and non-profits, as well as government agencies usually operate on a non-commercial basis.





Key Takeaways

Commercial refers to activities of commerce—business operations to earn profits.Non-commercial activity can be conducted by non-profit organizations or government agencies.In financial markets, the term is used to describe a trading activity that is hedged using derivatives contracts.Commercial positions in the options and futures markets generally indicate hedging activity, while non-commercial positions denote speculative activity. A commercial may also refer to an advertisement broadcast over a media channel.


   Understanding Commercial  

Commercial activity is an activity intended for exchange in the market to earn an economic profit. For example, commercial banking refers to banking activities focused on businesses, as opposed to consumer or retail banking which deals with the finance needs of individuals.






The colloquial meaning of the term "commercial" is a paid advertisement that runs on television or radio promoting goods or services available for sale.


  Commercial Trading  

Commercial entities play an active role in the futures and forward markets, ranging from the initial production to the final sales. While the term is also widely used in other areas of finance and everyday life, it generally denotes an activity that pertains to business or one that has a profit motive.



Commercial positions in the options and futures markets generally indicate hedging activity, while non-commercial positions denote speculative activity. Economists like to assess commercial positions in the futures and options market because this trading activity provides an indication of real economic activity that helps them forecast macroeconomic data like gross domestic product (GDP) growth.



Manufacturers have commercial positions to hedge the price of commodities and reduce their exposure to commodity price risk. The U.S. Commitments of Traders (COTS) reports supplied by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) display weekly open interest for commodities traded on futures exchanges, classified by commercial and non-commercial holdings.


  Commercial Scale  

The term commercial is also used to identify large institutional entities that are incumbent participants in a given market and have considerable scale. The opposite of commercial participants tends to be retail participants, which is often used to identify smaller companies or even individuals in a given market.



Commercial-sized companies can meet economies of scale easier and quicker as they have a size and capital advantage. This allows these companies to be able to produce goods and services on a larger scale with few input costs.


   Commercial vs. Non-Commercial Activity  

Commercial trading activity is used by companies that actually need to take delivery of the commodity to use in their production processes. Examples of commercial users include car manufacturers that need to take delivery of steel or oil refiners that need to take delivery of crude oil to produce gasoline.



Non-commercial trading activity, on the other hand, relates to speculative positions where traders are looking to make profits from short-term price variations. These traders do not actually need the commodity they are trading and can even close out all their trading positions at the end of the trading day.


   Commercial FAQs  
  What Are Examples of Commercial Activity?  

Commercial activity is for-profit activity, such as selling furniture via a storefront or a restaurant. More broadly, commercial activity can include selling goods, services, food, or materials.


  What Is Commercial Insurance?  

Commercial insurance is a form of insurance for businesses, offering liability and general business risk coverage. Commercial insurance is meant to cover the business and its employees against certain risks. There are several types of commercial insurance, such as business interruption, cyber, property, and auto coverage.


  What Is Commercial Real Estate?  

Commercial real estate is a property that's used for business or related purposes. Commercial real estate is generally leased and is used for a variety of purposes, including offices, retail, industrial, or multi-family residential.


  What Is Commercial Business?  

Commercial business is an activity conducted by companies to provide goods or services for sale. Commercial business includes the activity done outside of manufacturing or producing the products. Commercial business can also include the use of land or business for business activity, such as retail stores.


  What Is a Commercial Driver’s License?  

A commercial driver's license (CDL) is a license required in the U.S. to operate large or heavy vehicles. Issued by states, there are three classes of CDL—class A, B, and C. Each class includes various qualifications, such as the weight of the vehicle or the number of passengers.


   The Bottom Line  

Commercial generally relates to anything business or commerce. A commercial is an advertisement for a business. Commercial activity is selling goods or services for profit. There's also commercial trading in the forward and futures markets, generally done for hedging purposes.
What Is a Commercial Bank?  

The term “commercial bank” refers to a financial institution that accepts deposits, offers checking account services, makes various loans, and offers basic financial products like certificates of deposit (CDs) and savings accounts to individuals and small businesses. A commercial bank is where most people do their banking.



Commercial banks make money by providing and earning interest from loans such as mortgages, auto loans, business loans, and personal loans. Customer deposits provide banks with the capital to make these loans.





Key Takeaways

Commercial banks offer basic banking services, including deposit accounts and loans, to consumers and small to midsize businesses.Commercial banks make money from a variety of fees and by earning interest income from loans.Commercial banks have traditionally been located in physical locations, but a growing number now operate exclusively online.Commercial banks are important to the economy because they create capital, credit, and liquidity in the market.












Yurle Villegas / Investopedia


   How Commercial Banks Work  

Commercial banks provide basic banking services and products to the general public, both individual consumers and small to midsize businesses. These services include checking and savings accounts; loans and mortgages; basic investment services such as CDs; and other services such as safe deposit boxes.



Banks make money from service charges and fees. These fees vary based on the products, ranging from account fees (monthly maintenance charges, minimum balance fees, overdraft fees, and non-sufficient funds [NSF] charges), safe deposit box fees, and late fees. Many loan products also contain fees in addition to interest charges.



Banks also earn money from interest they earn by lending out money to other clients. The funds they lend comes from customer deposits. However, the interest rate paid by banks on the money they borrow is less than the rate charged on the money they lend. For example, a bank may offer savings account customers an annual interest rate of 0.25%, while charging mortgage clients 4.75% in interest annually.



Commercial banks have traditionally been located in buildings where customers come to use teller window services and automated teller machines (ATMs) to do their routine banking. With the rise in internet technology, most banks now allow their customers to do most of the same services online that they could do in person, including transfers, deposits, and bill payments.






A growing number of commercial banks operate exclusively online, where all transactions with the commercial bank must be made electronically. Because these banks don’t have any brick-and-mortar locations, they can offer a wider range of products and services at a lower cost—or none at all—to their customers.


   Significance of Commercial Banks  

Commercial banks are an important part of the economy. They not only provide consumers with an essential service but also help create capital and liquidity in the market.



Commercial banks ensure liquidity by taking the funds that their customers deposit in their accounts and lending them out to others. Commercial banks play a role in the creation of credit, which leads to an increase in production, employment, and consumer spending, thereby boosting the economy.



As such, commercial banks are heavily regulated by a central bank in their country or region. For instance, central banks impose reserve requirements on commercial banks. This means that banks are required to hold a certain percentage of their consumer deposits at the central bank as a cushion if there’s a rush to withdraw funds by the general public.


   Special Considerations  

Customers find commercial bank investments, such as savings accounts and CDs, attractive because they are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC), and money can be easily withdrawn. Customers have the option to withdraw money upon demand, and the balances are fully insured up to $250,000. Therefore, banks do not have to pay much for this money.



Many banks pay no interest at all (or at least pay very little) on checking account balances and offer interest rates for savings accounts that are well below U.S. Treasury bond (T-bond) rates.



Consumer lending makes up the bulk of North American bank lending, and of this, residential mortgages make up by far the largest share. Mortgages are used to buy properties, and the homes themselves are often the security that collateralizes the loan. Mortgages are typically written for 30-year repayment periods, and interest rates may be fixed, adjustable, or variable. Although a variety of more exotic mortgage products were offered during the U.S. housing bubble of the 2000s, many of the riskier products, including pick-a-payment mortgages and negative amortization loans, are much less common now.



Automobile lending is another significant category of secured lending for many banks. Compared to mortgage lending, auto loans are typically for shorter terms and higher rates. Banks face extensive competition in auto lending from other financial institutions, like captive auto financing operations run by automobile manufacturers and dealers.


  Bank Credit Cards  

Credit cards are another significant type of financing. Credit cards are, in essence, personal lines of credit that can be drawn down at any time. Private card issuers offer them through commercial banks.



Visa and Mastercard run the proprietary networks through which money is moved around between the shopper’s bank and the merchant’s bank after a transaction. Not all banks engage in credit card lending, as the rates of default are traditionally much higher than in mortgage lending or other types of secured lending.



That said, credit card lending delivers lucrative fees for banks—interchange fees charged to merchants for accepting the card and entering into the transaction, late-payment fees, currency exchange, over-limit, and other fees for the card user, as well as elevated rates on the balances that credit card users carry from one month to the next.


   Commercial Banks vs. Investment Banks  

Both commercial and investment banks provide important services and play key roles in the economy. For much of the 20th century, these two branches of the banking industry were generally kept separate from one another in the United States, thanks to the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, which was passed during the Great Depression. It was largely repealed by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, allowing for the creation of financial holding companies that could have both commercial and investment bank subsidiaries.






While it tore down the commercial and investment bank wall, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act did maintain some safeguards: It forbids a bank and a nonbank subsidiary of the same holding company from marketing the products or services of the other entity—to prevent banks from promoting securities underwritten by other subsidiaries to their customers—and placed size limitations on subsidiaries.



While commercial banks have traditionally provided services to individuals and businesses, investment banking offers banking services to large companies and institutional investors. They act as financial intermediaries, providing their clients with underwriting services, merger and acquisition (M&A) strategies, corporate reorganization services, and other types of brokerage services for institutional and high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs).



While commercial banking clients include individual consumers and small businesses, investment banking clients include governments, hedge funds, other financial institutions, pension funds, and large companies.


   Examples of Commercial Banks  

Some of the world’s largest financial institutions are commercial banks or have commercial banking operations—many of which can be found in the U.S. For instance, Chase Bank is the commercial banking unit of JPMorgan Chase. Headquartered in New York City, Chase Bank reported more than $3.3 trillion in assets as of September 2022. Bank of America is the second-largest U.S. bank, with more than $2.4 trillion in assets and 67 million customers, including both retail clients and small and midsize businesses.




Is my bank a commercial bank?
Possibly! Commercial banks are what most people think of when they hear the term “bank.” Commercial banks are for-profit institutions that accept deposits, make loans, safeguard assets, and work with many different types of clients, including the general public and businesses. However, if your account is with a community bank or credit union, it probably would not be a commercial bank.




What role do commercial banks play in the economy?
Commercial banks are crucial to the fractional reserve banking system, currently found in most developed countries. This allows banks to extend new loans of up to (typically) 90% of the deposits they have on hand, theoretically growing the economy by freeing capital for lending.




Is my money safe at a commercial bank?
For the most part, yes. Commercial banks are heavily regulated, and most deposit accounts are covered up to $250,000 by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC). Moreover, commercial banking and investment banking funds cannot be comingled by law.


   The Bottom Line  

Commercial banks are a critical component of the U.S. economy by providing vital capital to businesses and individuals in the form of credit and loans. They provide a secure place where people save money, earn interest, and make payments through checks, debit cards, and credit cards.



Commercial banks are typically in brick-and-mortar locations in cities and towns, many with extensive branch networks. A growing number have no physical location, however—instead, they are accessible online and through mobile applications.
What Is a Commercial Loan?  

A commercial loan is a debt-based funding arrangement between a business and a financial institution such as a bank. It is typically used to fund major capital expenditures and/or cover operational costs that the company may otherwise be unable to afford. Expensive upfront costs and regulatory hurdles often prevent small businesses from having direct access to bond and equity markets for financing. This means that, not unlike individual consumers, smaller businesses must rely on other lending products, such as lines of credit, unsecured loans or term loans.





Key Takeaways

A commercial loan is done between a bank and a business, used to fund operating costs and capital expenditures. Many commercial loans require collateral, such as property or equipment. Companies generally have to provide financial statements to prove their ability to repay. Although most commercial loans are short-term, they can be “rolled,” or renewed to extend the life of the loan.


   How Commercial Loans Work  

Commercial loans are granted to a variety of business entities, usually to assist with short-term funding needs for operational costs or for the purchase of equipment to facilitate the operating process. In some instances, the loan may be extended to help the business meet more basic operational needs, such as funding for payroll or to purchase supplies used in the production and manufacturing process.



These loans often require that a business posts collateral, usually in the form of property, plant or equipment that the bank can confiscate from the borrower in the event of default or bankruptcy. Sometimes cash flows generated from future accounts receivable are used as a loan's collateral. Mortgages issued to commercial real estate are one form of commercial loan.






Commercial loans are most often used for short-term funding needs.


   Special Considerations   

As is true for nearly every type of loan, the creditworthiness of an applicant plays a starring role when a financial institution considers giving out a commercial loan. In most cases, the business applying for the loan will be required to present documentation—generally in the form of balance sheets and other similar documents—that proves the company has a favorable and consistent cash flow. This assures the lender that the loan can and will be repaid according to its terms.



If a company is approved for a commercial loan, it can expect to pay a rate of interest that falls in line with the prime lending rate at the time the loan is issued. Banks typically require monthly financial statements from the company through the duration of the loan and often require the company to take out insurance on any larger items purchased with funds from the loan.


   Types of Commercial Loans  

A commercial loan is most often thought of as a short-term source of funds for a business. Short-duration loans for commercial real estate are called mini-perm. They usually have a three- to five-year term.



There are some banks and other financial institutions that offer renewable loans that can extend indefinitely. This allows the business to get the funds it needs to maintain ongoing operations and to repay the first loan within its specified time period.



After this, the loan may be rolled into an additional or "renewed" loan period. A business will often seek a renewable commercial loan when it must obtain the resources it needs to handle large seasonal orders from certain customers while still being able to provide goods to additional clients.
What Are Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (CMBS)?  

Commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) are fixed-income investment products that are backed by mortgages on commercial properties rather than residential real estate. CMBS can provide liquidity to real estate investors and commercial lenders alike.



Because there are no rules for standardizing the structures of CMBS, their valuations can be difficult. The underlying securities of CMBS may include a number of commercial mortgages of varying terms, values, and property types—such as multi-family dwellings and commercial real estate. CMBS can offer less of a pre-payment risk than residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), as the term on commercial mortgages is generally fixed.





Key Takeaways

CMBS are secured by mortgages on commercial properties rather than residential real estate.Commercial mortgage-backed securities are in the form of bonds, and the underlying loans typically are contained within trusts.The loans in a CMBS act as collateral—with principal and interest passed on to investors—in the event of default.


   How Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (CMBS) Work  

As with collateralized debt obligations (CDO) and collateralized mortgage obligations (CMO) CMBS are in the form of bonds. The mortgage loans that form a single commercial mortgage-backed security act as the collateral in the event of default, with principal and interest passed on to investors.



The loans are typically contained within a trust, with different terms, property types, and amounts. The underlying loans that are securitized into CMBS include loans for properties such as apartment buildings and complexes, factories, hotels, office buildings, office parks, and shopping malls, often within the same trust.



A mortgage loan is typically what is considered a non-recourse debt—any consumer or commercial debt that is secured only by collateral. In case of default, the lender may not seize any assets of the borrower beyond the collateral.



Because CMBS are complex investment vehicles, they require a wide range of market participants—including investors, a primary servicer, a master servicer, a special servicer, a directing certificate holder, trustees, and rating agencies. Each of these players performs a specific role to ensure that CMBS performs properly.






The CMBS market accounts for approximately 2% of the total U.S. fixed-income market.


   Types of CMBS  

The mortgages that back CMBS are classified into tranches according to their levels of credit risk, which typically are ranked from senior—or highest quality—to lower quality. The highest quality tranches will receive both interest and principal payments and have the lowest associated risk. Lower tranches offer higher interest rates, but the tranches that take on more risk also absorb most of the potential loss that can occur as the tranches go down in rank.



The tranches are usually divided as follows::



Senior tranche: The senior tiers are first in line for repayment, and hence have a lower risk profile than other parts of a CMBS. For this reason, they also tend to pay lower interest rates.Mezzanine tranche: the mezzanine tranches have more risk than higher-level tranches, but they also pay higher yields. In the event of a default, these investors are repaid after the investors in the senior tranche. Equity tranche: The equity tranche is the riskiest part of a mortgage-backed security, but it also offers the highest potential gains. 



The lowest tranche in a CMBS structure will contain the riskiest—and possibly speculative—loans in the portfolio. The securitization process that's involved in designing a CMBS's structure is important for both banks and investors. It allows banks to issue more loans in total, and it gives investors easy access to commercial real estate while giving them more yield than traditional government bonds.



Investors should understand, however, that in the case of a default on one or more loans in a CMBS, the highest tranches must be fully paid off, with interest, before the lower tranches will receive any funds.


   Components of a CMBS  

In addition to the underlying mortgages, there are other terms in a CMBS contract that can determine whether it will be a profitable investment. The following are some factors that investors may consider:Interest rates: CMBS loans come with a fixed interest rate, based on the Treasury interest rate. They may also have a favorable introductory payment period. Term length: CMBS loans have a normal term length of 5 to 10 years, usually ending with a balloon payment. But the term length is determined by a range of factors, such as the borrower's credit risk and cash flow. Prepayment penalties: These incentivize the borrowers to continue making regular payments on their mortgage, rather than paying it off early.


   Criticism of CMBS  

Typically, only very wealthy investors invest in CMBS because there are not many options here for the average investor. It's difficult to find mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETF) that invest solely in this asset class, though many real estate mutual funds invest a portion of their portfolios into CMBS.


   Requirements for CMBS  

In December 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) introduced new regulations to mitigate some of the risks of CMBS by creating margin requirements for covered agency transactions, including collateralized mortgage obligations.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of a CMBS  

As with other types of debt securities, investors assume certain risks when they purchase a CMBS. However, there are some features that make them popular for borrowers and investors.


  Fixed Interest Rates  

CMBS loans come with fixed interest rates, meaning that repayments will not fluctuate over the lifetime of the loan. This is a benefit for commercial borrowers, who cannot count on their revenues increasing with the loan terms.


  Nonrecourse  

A CMBS loan is non-recourse, meaning that lenders cannot hold borrowers personally responsible if they fail to repay the loan. However, there are some circumstances, such as fraud or misrepresentation, that would give investors recourse against the borrower.


  Loan Assumption  

When a mortgaged property is sold, the new owner is able to assume the previous owner's loan for a fee. This makes it easier to buy and sell properties without taking out a new loan.


  Prepayment Penalties  

Borrowers must pay a penalty if they pay off the loan early, in order to compensate investors for the interest they would have received in later years. These penalties are typically riskier than the prepayment penalties for residential mortgages.


  Defeasance  

Some CMBS contracts include a defeasance clause, meaning that if the borrower pays off the loan early, they must replace the lost interest and collateral with similar securities. For example, if a borrower prepays their loan, they may be required to purchase Treasury securities with enough cash flow to compensate investors for the lost interest. Defeasance requirements are spelled out in the contract and can be quite complex.




Pros and Cons of Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities

Pros

Fixed interest rates
In most cases, borrowers are not personally responsible for failure to make payments.
When a mortgaged property is sold, the loan can be passed on to new buyers.



Cons

High prepayment penalties to discourage borrowers from paying a loan early.
Borrowers may be required to provide alternative collateral if they wish to pay a loan early.







What Is the Difference Between CMBS and RMBS?
A residential mortgage-backed security, or RMBS, is a security backed by a bundle of residential loans for homes or apartments. A CMBS is backed by commercial real estate, such as office buildings, storefronts, malls, or other business spaces.




What Are the Risks of a CMBS?
The main risk for a CMBS investor is the possibility of a default in the underlying loans. Because these are non-recourse loans, the borrower cannot be held personally responsible if the loan defaults.




What Is the Main Benefit of a CMBS?
For investors, the main benefit of a CMBS is a reliable cash flow based on a fixed interest rate. Moreover, prepayment penalties help discourage borrowers from early payments, ensuring that the cash flow will continue for the full term of the loan.


   The Bottom Line  

A commercial mortgage-backed security (CMBS) is a type of security backed by a bundle of commercial real estate loans.As borrowers make payments, the money is used to repay investors of the CMBS.
What Is Commercial Paper?  

Commercial paper is an unsecured, short-term debt instrument issued by corporations. It's typically used to finance short-term liabilities such as payroll, accounts payable, and inventories. Commercial paper is usually issued at a discount from face value. It reflects prevailing market interest rates.



Commercial paper involves a specific amount of money that is to be repaid by a specific date. Minimum denominations are $100,000. Terms to maturity extend from one to 270 days. They average 30 days.





Key Takeaways

Commercial paper is a form of unsecured, short-term debt.It's commonly issued by companies to finance their payrolls, payables, inventories, and other short-term liabilities.Maturities on commercial paper range from one to 270 days, with an average of around 30 days.Commercial paper is issued at a discount and matures at its face value.The minimum denomination of commercial paper is $100,000 and it pays a fixed rate of interest that fluctuates with the market.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding Commercial Paper  

Commercial paper was first introduced over 150 years ago when New York merchants began to sell their short-term obligations to dealers in order to access capital needed to cover near-term obligations. These dealers, or middlemen, purchased the paper, (also known as promissory notes) at a discount from their par value. They then sold the paper to banks and other investors. The merchants would repay the investors an amount equal to the par value of the note.



Commercial paper is not backed by any form of collateral, making it unsecured debt. It differs from asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP), a class of debt instrument backed by assets selected by the issuer. In either case, commercial paper is only issued by firms with high ratings from credit rating agencies. These firms can easily find buyers without having to offer a substantial discount (at a higher cost to themselves) for the debt issue.



Commercial paper is issued by large institutions in denominations of $100,000 or more. Other corporations, financial institutions, and wealthy individuals, are usually buyers of commercial paper.






Marcus Goldman, the founder of investment bank Goldman Sachs, was the first dealer in the money market to purchase commercial paper. His company became one of the biggest commercial paper dealers in America following the Civil War. 


   Types of Commercial Paper  

There are four types of commercial paper: promissory notes, drafts, checks, and certificates of deposit (CDs).


  Promissory Notes  

Promissory notes, or, simply, notes, are debt instruments written by one party to another that promise to pay a specific amount of money by a certain date. Notes are a common way for companies to issue commercial paper.


  Drafts  

A draft is a written agreement between three parties: a bank (the drawer), a payer (the drawee), and a payee. The bank instructs the commercial paper issuer to pay the lender (payee) a specific amount of money at a specific time. 


  Checks  

Checks are paid on demand by a bank rather than by a certain time. They are the fastest way to issue commercial paper. For this type of commercial paper, the issuing company instructs a bank to give the payee a specific amount of money instantly.


  Certificates of Deposit  

A certificate of deposit is exactly what the name implies: a bank receipt, or certificate, that asserts that the bank has received a sum of money deposited by an investor. It agrees to pay back this money plus interest at a specific time in the future. The CD also states the interest rate to be paid and the maturity date. 


   Commercial Paper Terms  
  Issuer  

The issuer of commercial paper is the entity that is creating the short-term debt to fund their short-term cash needs. As mentioned earlier, most issuers are large corporations with strong credit, as the issuer may demonstrate a high probability of being able to pay back debt especially in the short-term.


  Term/Maturity  

The maturity of commercial paper designates how long the debt is outstanding for the issuer. Commercial paper often a term up to 270 days, though companies often issue commercial paper with a maturity of 30 days. At the end of the maturity period, the commercial paper is technically due, and the issuer is now liable to return investor capital (though they may choose to simply re-issue more commercial paper).


  Secured/Unsecured  

Commercial paper is often unsecured, which means there is no collateral for the debt the issuing company is taking on. If the issuing company goes bankrupt, holders of the issuer's commercial paper may not have recourse in receiving funds. The idea is because commercial paper's maturity is so short and the credit worthiness of issuers is higher, the debt does not need backing by corporate assets.


  Discount/Face Value  

Commercial paper is issued at face value, meaning a debt instrument has a value to it often in denominations of $100,000. Instead of paying interest, commercial paper is instead often issued at a discount, or a price that less than face value. When the commercial paper reaches maturity, the investor will receive the face value amount of the instrument even though they paid a lower discount amount.


  Liquidity  

Commercial paper is often tied to liquidity, the measurement of well a company's short-term cash flows will be able to cover its short-term debt. Therefore, issuers often create commercial paper to increase their liquidity as it may need cash in the short-term. On the other hand, buyers of commercial paper may not need cash right away, so they are willing to buy and hold the instrument to increase their cash on hand in the future.






Commercial paper is just like bonds, though each instrument has its own unique characteristics.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Commercial Paper  
  Advantages  

A major benefit of commercial paper is that it does not need to be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as long as it matures in no more than nine months, or 270 days.



This makes it a cost-effective and a simple means of financing. Although maturities can go as long as 270 days before coming under the purview of the SEC, maturities for commercial paper average about 30 days.



Commercial paper is also easier to deal with compared to the effort, time, and money involved in getting a business loan.



It offers issuers the advantage of lower interest rates while it offers investors a low risk of default.



Commercial paper provides an effective way for investors to diversify portfolios.


  Disadvantages  

Companies must have extremely good credit to issue commercial paper. So, it doesn't offer access to capital for all institutions.



What's more, the proceeds from this type of financing can only be used on current assets or inventories. They are not allowed to be used on fixed assets, such as a new plant, without SEC involvement.



Low interest rates for issuers mean low rates of return for investors. Also, due to the large minimum denomination of $100,000, commercial paper typically isn't directly available to smaller investors. However, they can invest indirectly through companies that buy commercial paper.









Pros and Cons of Commercial Paper


Pros 
Cons




Issuers can access capital markets without having to register securities with the SEC
Commercial paper isn't FDIC-insured


Issuers can get funding without having to get a business loan
There's no guarantee that investors will be repaid


Issuers risk of default is low
Companies must have high credit ratings, so not all can use this funding option


Great for diversification purposes
Low rates of return for investors





   Commercial Paper vs. Bonds  

Both commercial paper and bonds are debt instruments. However, there are important differences between them that are useful to know.



Commercial paper maturities extend from one to 270 days. Bonds mature in one to 30 years. Though a company may report part of their bonds as short-term debt, a majority of bonds are usually longer-term compared to commercial paper.



Commercial paper has no coupon payments. Everything is repaid at maturity, with one payment. Bonds pay interest at regular intervals (twice a year) over the life of the loan. Though both instruments result in a return of capital at the maturity date of the instrument, bonds also make payments along the way.



Another potential difference between the two is the collateral requirements. For long-term bonds, investors will often want security that if something were to happen, they have the first right to claim company assets. Therefore, many bonds may be secured, while the riskiest bonds may more closely mirror commercial paper by being unsecured.


   Example of Commercial Paper  

Let's say a retail firm is looking for short-term funding to finance some new inventory for an upcoming holiday season. The firm needs $10 million. It offers investors commercial paper with a face value of $10.1 million. This is in line with prevailing interest rates.



When the commercial paper matures, investors in effect receive an interest payment of $100,000 along with the $10 million they loaned out. This equates to an interest rate of 1%. This interest rate can be adjusted for time, contingent on the number of days the commercial paper is outstanding.



Say the term of the commercial paper is 30 days. This means the firm will raise $10 million today and in 30 days, it may repay $10.1 million to investors holding the commercial paper.




Is Commercial Paper a Type of Debt?
Yes. Commercial paper is short-term, unsecured debt issued by institutions who want to raise capital needed for a short amount of time. It's an alternative to having to go through the effort and cost involved in getting a business loan.




Who Are the Primary Buyers of Commercial Paper?
Due to the large minimum denominations (usually $100,000 or more), large institutions comprise the main buyers of commercial paper. According to the SEC, these include "investment companies, retirement accounts, state and local governments, financial and non-financial firms."




How Do Individuals Invest in Commercial Paper?
The minimum investment in commercial paper is usually $100,000. So the best way for smaller investors to invest in commercial paper is to put their money in the companies that buy it. These include money market funds, mutual funds, and even exchange-traded funds.


   The Bottom Line  

Commercial paper is unsecured debt with short terms (up to 270 days) issued by companies with high credit ratings. It offers a less expensive way to raise money to pay short-term expenses compared to getting a business loan.



Commercial paper can also be attractive for issuers due to the low interest rate that's usually attached to it. While that rate isn't always as appealing to investors, it can be a higher return than that offered by some bonds (such as Treasuries). Plus, it's an investment option that can help diversify portfolios.



Investors in commercial paper are usually institutions rather than individuals, due to the large minimum denominations involved.



Commercial paper may be seen as a low risk investment due to the high credit rating preferred for issuers. Bear in mind, however, that like any other investment, it involves some degree of risk.
What Is Commercial Real Estate (CRE)?  

Commercial real estate (CRE) is property used exclusively for business-related purposes or to provide a workspace rather than a living space, which would instead constitute residential real estate. Most often, commercial real estate is leased to tenants to conduct income-generating activities. This broad category of real estate can include everything from a single storefront to a huge shopping center.



Commercial real estate comes in a variety of forms. It can be anything from an office building to a residential duplex, or even a restaurant, coffee shop, or warehouse. Individuals, companies, and corporate interests can make money from commercial real estate by leasing it out, or holding it and reselling it.



Commercial real estate includes several categories, such as retailers of all kinds: office space, hotels and resorts, strip malls, restaurants, and healthcare facilities.





Key Takeaways

Commercial real estate refers to properties used specifically for business or income-generating purposes.Commercial real estate differs from residential real estate because it has the potential to generate profit for the property owner through capital gain or rental income.The four main classes of commercial real estate are office space, industrial, multifamily rentals, and retail.Commercial real estate provides rental income as well as the potential for some capital appreciation for investors.Publicly traded real estate investment trusts (REITs) are a feasible way for individuals to indirectly invest in commercial real estate.


   Understanding Commercial Real Estate (CRE)  

Commercial real estate and residential real estate comprise the two primary categories of real estate property. Residential properties include structures reserved for human habitation and not for commercial or industrial use. As its name implies, commercial real estate is used in commerce, and multiunit rental properties that serve as residences for tenants are classified as commercial activity for the landlord.



Commercial real estate is typically categorized into four classes, depending on function:



Office space
Industrial use
Multifamily rental
Retail



Individual categories may also be further classified. There are, for instance, a number of different types of retail real estate:



Hotels and resortsStrip mallsRestaurantsHealthcare facilities



Similarly, office space has several subtypes. It is often characterized as class A, class B, or class C:



Class A represents the best buildings in terms of aesthetics, age, quality of infrastructure, and location.Class B buildings are usually older and not as competitive—price-wise—as class A buildings. Investors often target these buildings for restoration.Class C buildings are the oldest, usually more than 20 years of age, located in less attractive areas, and in need of maintenance.



Note that some zoning and licensing authorities further break out industrial properties—sites used for the manufacture and production of goods, especially heavy goods—but most consider it a subset of commercial real estate.


   Commercial Leases  

Some businesses own the buildings that they occupy. However, the more typical case is that the commercial property is leased. Usually, an investor or a group of investors owns the building and collects rent from each business that operates there. Commercial lease rates—the price to occupy a space over a stated period—are customarily quoted in annual rental dollars per square foot. Conversely, residential real estate rates quote as an annual sum or a monthly rent.



Commercial leases will typically run from one year to 10 years or more, with office and retail space typically averaging five- to 10-year leases. This can be contrasted with more short-term yearly or month-to-month residential leases.



There are four primary types of commercial property leases, each requiring different levels of responsibility from the landlord and the tenant.



A single net lease makes the tenant responsible for paying property taxes.
A double net (NN) lease makes the tenant responsible for paying property taxes and insurance.
A triple net (NNN) lease makes the tenant responsible for paying property taxes, insurance, and maintenance.
Under a gross lease, the tenant pays only rent, and the landlord pays for the building’s property taxes, insurance, and maintenance.


   Managing Commercial Real Estate  

Owning and maintaining leased commercial real estate requires full and ongoing management by the owner. Property owners may wish to employ a commercial real estate management firm to help them find, manage, and retain tenants, oversee leases and financing options, and coordinate property upkeep and marketability. The specialized knowledge of a commercial real estate management company is helpful, as the rules and regulations governing such property vary by state, county, municipality, industry, and size.



The landlord must often strike a balance between maximizing rents and minimizing vacancies and tenant turnover. Turnover can be costly for CRE owners because space must be adapted to meet the specific needs of different tenants—for example, if a restaurant is moving into a property once occupied by a yoga studio.


   How Investors Make Money in Commercial Real Estate  

Investing in commercial real estate can be potentially lucrative and serve as a hedge against the volatility of the stock market. Investors can make money through property appreciation when they sell, but most returns come from tenant rents.


  Direct Investment  

Investors can use direct investments where they become landlords through the ownership of the physical property. People best suited for direct investment in commercial real estate are those who either have a considerable amount of knowledge about the industry or can employ firms that do. Commercial properties are a high-risk, high-reward real estate investment. Such an investor is likely to be a high-net-worth individual since CRE investing requires a considerable amount of capital.



The ideal property is in an area with low CRE supply and high demand, which will give favorable rental rates. The strength of the area’s local economy also affects the value of the CRE purchase.


  Indirect Investment  

Alternatively, investors may invest in the commercial market indirectly through either ownership of various market securities, such as real estate investment trusts (REITs) or exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that invest in commercial property-related stocks, or investment in companies that cater to the commercial real estate market, such as banks and Realtors.


   Advantages of Commercial Real Estate  

One of the biggest advantages of commercial real estate is attractive leasing rates. In areas where the amount of new construction is limited by either land or law, commercial real estate can have impressive returns and considerable monthly cash flows. Industrial buildings generally rent at a lower rate, though they also have lower overhead costs compared with an office tower.



Commercial real estate also benefits from comparably longer lease contracts with tenants than residential real estate. This long lease length gives the commercial real estate holder a considerable amount of cash flow stability, as long as long-term tenants occupy the building.



In addition to offering a stable and rich source of income, commercial real estate offers the potential for capital appreciation, as long as the property is well-maintained and kept up to date. And, like all forms of real estate, it is a distinct asset class that can provide an effective diversification option to a balanced portfolio.


   Disadvantages of Commercial Real Estate  

Rules and regulations are the primary deterrents for most people wanting to invest in commercial real estate directly. The taxes, mechanics of purchasing, and maintenance responsibilities for commercial properties are buried in layers of legalese. These requirements shift according to state, county, industry, size, zoning, and many other designations. Most investors in commercial real estate either have specialized knowledge or a payroll of people who do.



Another hurdle is the increased risk brought with tenant turnover, especially relevant in an economy where unexpected retail closures leave properties vacant with little advance notice. 



With residences, the facilities requirements of one tenant usually mirror those of previous or future tenants. However, with a commercial property, each tenant may have very different needs that require costly refurbishing. The building owner then has to adapt the space to accommodate each tenant’s specialized trade. A commercial property with a low vacancy but high tenant turnover may still lose money due to the cost of renovations for incoming tenants.



For those looking to invest directly, buying a commercial property is a much more costly proposition than a residential property. Moreover, while real estate in general is among the more illiquid of asset classes, transactions for commercial buildings tend to move especially slowly.





Pros

Hedge against stock market
High-yielding source of income
Stable cash flows from long-term tenants
Capital appreciation potential



Cons

More capital required to directly invest
Greater regulation
Higher renovation costs
Illiquid asset





   Commercial Real Estate and COVID-19  

The global COVID-19 pandemic beginning in 2020 did not cause real estate values to drop substantially. Except for an initial drop at the beginning of the pandemic, property values have remained steady or even risen, much like the stock market, which recovered from its dramatic drop in the second quarter (Q2) of 2020 with an equally dramatic rally that ran through much of 2021.



This is a key difference between the economic fallout occurring in 2020 and what happened a decade earlier. What is not known is if the required remote work environment that began in 2020 for most Americans will have any long-term impact on corporate office needs.



Companies have begun to roll out hybrid solutions requiring employees to return to the office. For example, in May 2023, Amazon required employees to begin returning back to physical offices at least three days each week. However, the commercial real estate has still yet to fully recover. Consider how American Tower Corporation (AMT), one of the largest United States REITS, was priced at roughly $250 per share in June 2022. Fast-forward one year, the REIT traded at roughly $187 per share in June 2023.


   Commercial Real Estate Outlook and Forecasts  

The U.S. commercial property market took a big hit during the 2008–2009 recession, but it has experienced consistent annual gains since 2010. These gains have helped recover the recession-era losses. Most research maintained that the property market remains healthy overall. J.P. Morgan, in its 2019 Commercial Real Estate Outlook, largely echoed this view, commenting that 2019 was the 10th year of increases in commercial property rents and valuations.



After major disruptions discussed above as part of the pandemic, the commercial real estate is attempting to emerge from an unclear state. According to J.P. Morgan Chase, remote and hybrid work have largely reduced demand for office space. B- and C-class office buildings may face more difficult prospects, but A-class spaces with long-term leases (of at least a decade) seem to be more favorably positioned to recover.



For the most part, CBRE agrees. In their 2023 forecast, CBRE stated it would be a year more favorable for tenants. In addition, less than 38 million square feet of of commercial office space is slated for delivery in 2023, down 27% from the average of the past five years. These supply constraints appear due to developers hitting pause, according to CBRE.




What Is the Difference Between Commercial and Residential Real Estate?
Residential real estate is used exclusively for private living quarters. Commercial real estate refers to any property used for business activities. Types of commercial real estate include hospitals, assembly plants, storage warehouses, shopping centers, office spaces, or any other location for a business enterprise.




Is Commercial Real Estate a Good Investment?
It can be. Commercial real estate can have impressive returns and considerable monthly cash flows, and returns stood up well during the market shocks of the past decade. As with any investment, however, commercial real estate comes with risks.




What Are the Disadvantages of Commercial Real Estate?
Rules and regulations are the primary deterrents for most people wanting to invest in commercial real estate. The taxes, mechanics of purchasing, and maintenance responsibilities for commercial properties are buried in layers of legalese, and they can be difficult to understand without acquiring or hiring specialist knowledge.


   The Bottom Line  

Commercial real estate refers to real estate that is used specifically for business or income-generating purposes. It differs from residential real estate because it has the potential to provide rental income as well as capital appreciation for investors. The four main classes of commercial real estate are office space, industrial, multifamily rentals, and retail.



Investing in commercial real estate usually requires more sophistication and larger amounts of capital from investors than does residential real estate, but it can offer high returns. Publicly traded REITs are a feasible way for individuals to indirectly invest in commercial real estate without specialist knowledge of the sector.
What Is Commercialization?  

Commercialization is the process of bringing new products or services to market. The broader act of commercialization entails production, distribution, marketing, sales, customer support, and other key functions critical to achieving the commercial success of the new product or service.



Typically, commercialization occurs after a small business has grown and scaled its operations and reach levels that allow it to successfully reach a larger market. For example, if a small bakery is known for its cinnamon rolls and has sold them with great success, it can commercialize its products by selling the packaged cinnamon rolls to local grocery stores, where others can buy the pastries and the bakery can increase its sales by multiple factors.





Key Takeaways

Commercialization is the process of bringing new products or services to market.Commercialization requires a carefully-developed three-tiered product roll-out and marketing strategy, that includes the ideation phase, the business process, and the stakeholder stage.The broader act of commercialization entails production, distribution, marketing, sales, customer support, and other key functions critical to achieving the commercial success of the new product or service.


   Understanding Commercialization  

Commercialization requires a carefully-developed three-tiered product roll-out and marketing strategy, that encompasses the following major components:



The ideation phase
The business process stage
The stakeholder stage


  The Commercialization Process  

Many people view the ideation stage as the mouth of a funnel. Although many ideas enter the funnel top, only a fraction ultimately make their ways downward towards implementation. Ideation attempts to generate new products and services that meet unanswered consumer demands, and the most functional designs align with the company's business model, by offering high benefits at low cost.



The ideation stage strives to incorporate a marketing philosophy known as "The Four Ps," which stands for product, price, place, and promotion. Often referred to as the marketing mix, companies use this concept to determine the products to create, the price points at which to sell them, the customer base it wishes to target, and the marketing campaigns it will roll out in an effort to move merchandise off shelves.



For a potential product to be eligible for commercialization, research and development (R&D) efforts must telegraph a degree of public value that could potentially result in increased profitability for the company. In the business process stage, considerations are made in terms of feasibility, costs, and thinking through how a potential commercialization strategy could actually be rolled out.



That being said, the stakeholder stage is typically bundled in thinking through who target audiences and stakeholders for a commercialized product or service is. For commercialization to truly succeed, a company must satisfy both its customer and stakeholder needs.


  Selling New Products in the Marketplace  

Patents, trademark registrations, and other legal measures must be undertaken to protect a product's intellectual rights, before the product may be brought to market. Manufacturing may occur in-house, or it may be subcontracted to third parties factories. Once a product line is complete, promotional efforts then bring awareness to the target market, which is accessed through distribution channels as well as partnerships with retailers.



Although businesses that produce, market, and distribute products in-house tend to reap higher profits because they don't have to share proceeds with intermediaries, they also assume greater liability with respect to production cost overages.
What Is a Commingled Fund?  

A commingled fund is a portfolio consisting of assets from several accounts that are blended together. Commingled funds exist to reduce the costs of managing the constituent accounts separately.



Commingled funds are a type of pooled fund that is not publicly listed or available to individual retail investors. Instead, these are used in closed retirement plans, pension funds, insurance policies, and other institutional accounts.





Key Takeaways

A commingled is when an investment manager accumulates money from several investors and combines it into one fund.Like mutual funds, commingled funds are overseen and managed by portfolio managers who invest in a range of securities.Unlike mutual funds, commingled funds are typically not regulated by the SEC.Commingled funds do not trade publicly and are not available for individual purchase; instead, they feature in institutional accounts such as pensions, retirement plans, and insurance policies.


   Understanding a Commingled Fund  

Commingling involves combining assets contributed by investors into a single fund or investment vehicle. Commingling is a primary feature of most investment funds. It may also be used to combine various types of contributions for various purposes



In many ways, commingled funds are similar to mutual funds. Both are professionally managed by one or more fund managers and invest in basic financial instruments such as stocks, bonds, or a combination of both.



Also, like mutual funds, commingled fund investments benefit from economies of scale, which allow for lower trading costs per dollar of investment, and diversification, which lowers portfolio risk.


   Oversight of Commingled Funds  

One major and important difference, however, is that commingled funds are not regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which means they are not required to submit a variety of lengthy disclosures. Mutual funds, on the other hand, must register with the SEC and abide by the Investment Company Act of 1940.



Commingled funds are not completely devoid of oversight, though: They are subject to review by the United States Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, as well as individual state regulators.



While mutual funds have a prospectus, commingled funds have a Summary Plan Description (SPD). SPDs offer more detail, describing the fund's objectives, investment strategy, and background of its managers. The SPD document states the rights and obligations that the plan participants and beneficiaries can expect. Any participant in a commingled fund should read the SPD carefully.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Commingled Funds  

The lower degree of regulation results in lower legal expenses and operating costs for a commingled fund. The lower the costs, the less drag on a fund's returns. If a commingled fund and a comparable mutual fund post the exact same gross performance, the commingled fund's net return would likely be better because its expenses were lower than the mutual fund's.



A disadvantage of commingled funds is that they do not have ticker symbols and are not publicly traded. This lack of public information can make it difficult for outside investors to track the fund's capital gains, dividends, and interest income. With mutual funds, this information is much more transparent.





Pros

Professionally-managed
Diversified portfolio
Lower fees and expenses
Economies of scale



Cons

Illiquid
Less transparent/harder to track
Not SEC-regulated
Limited availability





   Example of a Commingled Fund  

Like a mutual fund, the Fidelity Contrafund Commingled Pool has a portfolio manager and publicly discloses pertinent information via quarterly reports. It focuses on large-cap growth stocks, with major weightings in information technology, communication services, consumer discretionary, financial companies, and health care.



The Contrafund Commingled Pool has a 0.43% expense ratio, which is lower than the average expense ratio of mutual funds—including its mutual fund counterpart, the Fidelity Contrafund, with its .86% expense ratio. Since its inception in 2014, the fund has delivered an annualized return of 15.85%, versus the 14.12% produced by the S&P 500 index.


   Illegal Commingling  

In some cases, the commingling of funds may be illegal. This usually occurs when an investment manager combines client money with their own or their firm's, in violation of a contract.



Details of an asset management agreement are typically outlined in an investment management contract. An investment manager has a fiduciary responsibility to manage assets according to certain specifications and standards. Assets agreed to be managed as separate cannot be commingled by the investment advisor.



Other situations may also arise where contributions provided by an individual or client must be managed with special care. This can occur in legal cases, corporate client accounts, and real estate transactions.
What Is a Commission?  

A commission is a service charge assessed by a broker or investment advisor for providing investment advice or handling purchases and sales of securities for a client.



There are important differences between commissions and fees, at least in the way these words are used to describe professional advisors in the financial services industry. A commission-based advisor or broker makes money by selling investment products such as mutual funds and annuities and conducting transactions with the client's money.



A fee-based advisor charges a flat rate for managing a client's money. This may be either a dollar amount or a percentage of assets under management (AUM). Sales between family members are often gifts of equity, which are not commission-based.





Key Takeaways

Full-service brokerages derive much of their profit from charging commissions on client transactions.Commission-based advisors make money from buying and selling products on behalf of their clients.In the financial-services sector, commissions and fees are different, where fees are a flat rate for managing a client's money.When considering a brokerage or advisor, look at the full list of commissions for services and be wary of financial advisors who appear interested in selling products just for commissions rather than for your best interest.Today, most online brokers no longer charge commission for buying and selling stocks.


   Understanding Commissions  

Full-service brokerages derive much of their profit from charging commissions on client transactions. Commissions vary widely from brokerage to brokerage, and each has its own fee schedule for various services. When determining the gains and losses from selling a stock, it's important to factor in the cost of commissions in order to be completely accurate.



Commissions can be charged if an order is filled, canceled, or modified, and even if it expires. In most situations, when an investor places a market order that goes unfilled, no commission is charged. However, if the order is canceled or modified, the investor may find extra charges added to the commission. Limit orders that go partially filled often will incur a fee, sometimes on a prorated basis.



Today, most online brokers no longer charge commission for buying and selling stocks.


   Commission Costs  

Commissions can eat into an investor’s returns. Suppose Susan buys 100 shares of Conglomo Corp. for $10 each. Her broker charges a 2.5% commission on the deal, so Susan pays $1,000 for the shares, plus $25.



Six months later, her shares have appreciated 10% and Susan sells them. Her broker charges a 2% commission on the sale, or $22. Susan’s investment earned her a $100 profit, but she paid $47 in commissions on the two transactions. Her net gain is only $53.



Many online brokerages offer flat-rate commissions, such as $4.95 per trade, but note, however, that there is an increasing trend for online brokers to offer commission-free trading in many stocks and ETFs.



For this reason, online discount brokerages and roboadvisors are gaining popularity in the 21st century. These services provide access to stocks, index funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and more on a user-friendly platform for self-directed investors. Most charge a flat fee for trades, commonly between 0.25% and 0.50% per year of assets managed.



Online brokerage services also provide a wealth of financial news and information but little or no personalized advice. This can prove troublesome for some rookie investors.


   Commissions vs. Fees  

Financial advisors often advertise themselves as being fee-based rather than commission-based. A fee-based advisor charges a flat rate for managing a client's money, regardless of the type of investment products the client ends up purchasing. This flat rate will be either a dollar amount or a percentage of assets under management (AUM).



A commission-based advisor derives income from selling investment products, such as mutual funds and annuities, and conducting transactions with the client's money. Thus, the advisor gets more money by selling products that offer higher commissions, such as annuities or universal life insurance, and by moving the client's money around more frequently.



A professional advisor has a fiduciary responsibility to offer the investments that best serve the client's interests. That said, a commission-based advisor may try to steer clients toward investment products that pay generous commissions as opposed to those that actually benefit the client.
What Is a Commodity?  

A commodity is a basic good used in commerce that is interchangeable with other goods of the same type. Commodities are most often used as inputs in the production of other goods or services. Thus, the term usually refers to a raw material used to manufacture finished goods. A product, on the other hand, is the finished good sold to consumers.



The quality of a given commodity may differ slightly, but it is essentially uniform across producers. When they are traded on an exchange, commodities must also meet specified minimum standards, also known as a basis grade.





Key Takeaways

A commodity is a basic good used in commerce that is interchangeable with other commodities of the same type.Commodities are most often used as inputs in the production of other goods or services.Investors and traders can buy and sell commodities directly in the spot (cash) market or via derivatives such as futures and options.Hard commodities refer to energy and metals products, while soft commodities are often agricultural goods.Many investors view allocating commodities in a portfolio as a hedge against inflation.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Commodities  

Commodities are the raw inputs used in the production of goods. They may also be basic staples such as certain agricultural products. The important feature of a commodity is that there is very little differentiation in that good, regardless of who produces it. A barrel of oil is basically the same product, regardless of the producer. The same goes for a bushel of wheat or a ton of ore. By contrast, the quality and features of a given consumer product will often be quite different depending on the producer (e.g., Coke vs. Pepsi).



Some traditional examples of commodities include grains, gold, beef, oil, and natural gas. More recently, the definition has expanded to include financial products, such as foreign currencies and indexes.



Commodities can be bought and sold on specialized exchanges as financial assets. There are also well-developed derivatives markets whereby you can buy contracts on such commodities (e.g., forwards, futures, and options). Some experts believe that investors should hold at least some portion of a well-diversified portfolio in commodities since they are not highly correlated with other financial assets and may serve as an inflation hedge.






You might consider allocating up to 10% of your portfolio to a mix of commodities. Ordinary investors can look to one of several commodities ETFs or mutual funds to gain exposure.


   Buyers and Producers of Commodities  

The sale and purchase of commodities are usually carried out through futures contracts on exchanges that standardize the quantity and minimum quality of the commodity being traded. For example, the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) stipulates that one wheat contract is for 5,000 bushels and states what grades of wheat can be used to satisfy the contract.



Two types of traders trade commodity futures. The first are buyers and producers of commodities that use commodity futures contracts for the hedging purposes for which they were originally intended. These traders make or take delivery of the actual commodity when the futures contract expires.



For example, the wheat farmer who plants a crop can hedge against the risk of losing money if the price of wheat falls before the crop is harvested. The farmer can sell wheat futures contracts when the crop is planted and have a guaranteed, predetermined price for the wheat when it is harvested.


   Commodities Speculators  

The second type of commodities trader is the speculator. These are traders who trade in the commodities markets for the sole purpose of profiting from the volatile price movements. These traders never intend to make or take delivery of the actual commodity when the futures contract expires.



Many futures markets are very liquid and have a high degree of daily range and volatility, making them very tempting markets for intraday traders. Many index futures are used by brokerages and portfolio managers to offset risk. Also, since commodities do not typically trade in tandem with equity and bond markets, some commodities can be used effectively to diversify an investment portfolio.


   Special Considerations  

Commodity prices typically rise when inflation accelerates, which is why investors often flock to them for their protection during times of increasing inflation—particularly when it is unexpected. So, commodity demand increases because investors flock to them, raising their prices. The prices of goods and services then go up to match the increase. This causes commodities to often serve as a hedge against a currency's decreased buying power when the inflation rate increases.




What Is the Relationship Between Commodities and Derivatives?
The modern commodities market relies heavily on derivative securities, such as futures and forward contracts. Buyers and sellers can transact with one another easily and in large volumes without needing to exchange the physical commodities themselves. Many buyers and sellers of commodity derivatives do so to speculate on the price movements of the underlying commodities for purposes such as risk hedging and inflation protection.




What Determines Commodity Prices?
Like all assets, commodity prices are ultimately determined by supply and demand. For example, a booming economy might lead to increased demand for oil and other energy commodities. Supply and demand for commodities can be impacted in many ways, such as economic shocks, natural disasters, and investor appetite (investors may purchase commodities as an inflation hedge if they expect inflation to rise).




What Is the Difference Between a Commodity and a Security or Asset?
Commodities are physical products that are meant to be consumed or used in the production process. Assets, on the other hand, are goods that are not consumed through their use. For instance, money or a piece of machinery are used for productive purposes, but persist as they are used. A security is a financial instrument that is not a physical product. It is a legal representation (e.g., a contract or claim) that represents certain cash flows generated from various activities (such as a stock representing the future cash flows of a business).




What Are the Types of Commodities?
Hard commodities are usually classified as those that are mined or extracted from the earth. These can include metals, ore, and petroleum (energy) products. Soft commodities instead refer to those that are grown, such as agricultural products. These include wheat, cotton, coffee, sugar, soybeans, and other harvested items.




Where Are Commodities Traded?
The major U.S. commodity exchanges are ICE Futures U.S. and the CME Group, which operate four major exchanges: the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), and the Commodity Exchange, Inc. (COMEX). There are also major commodities exchanges located around the world.


   The Bottom Line  

Commodities are basic goods and materials that are widely used and are not meaningfully differentiated from one another. Examples of commodities include barrels of oils, bushels of wheat, or megawatt-hours of electricity. Commodities have long been an important part of commerce, but in recent decades, commodities trading has become increasingly standardized.
What Is a Commodity Futures Contract?  

A commodity futures contract is an agreement to buy or sell a predetermined amount of a commodity at a specific price on a specific date in the future. Commodity futures can be used to hedge or protect an investment position or to bet on the directional move of the underlying asset.



Many investors confuse futures contracts with options contracts. With futures contracts, the holder has an obligation to act. Unless the holder unwinds the futures contract before expiration, they must either buy or sell the underlying asset at the stated price.



Commodity futures can be contrasted with the spot commodities market.





Key Takeaways


A commodity futures contract is a standardized contract that obliges the buyer to purchase some underlying commodity (or the seller to sell it) at a predetermined future price and date.
Commodity futures can be used to hedge or protect a position in commodities.
A futures contract also allows one to speculate on the direction of a commodity, taking either a long or short position, using leverage.
The high degree of leverage used with commodity futures can amplify gains, as well as losses.
The IRS requires a specific form when reporting gains and losses from commodity futures contracts: Form 6781.



   How a Commodity Futures Contract Works  

Most commodity futures contracts are closed out or netted at their expiration date. The price difference between the original trade and the closing trade is cash-settled. Commodity futures are typically used to take a position in an underlying asset. Typical assets include:



Crude oilWheatCornGoldSilverNatural gas



Commodity futures contracts are called by the name of their expiration month, meaning a contract ending in September is a September futures contract. Some commodities can have a significant amount of price volatility or price fluctuations. As a result, there's the potential for large gains but large losses as well.






Commodity futures and commodity forward contracts are functionally similar. The major difference is that futures are traded on regulated exchanges and have standardized contract terms. Forwards instead trade over-the-counter (OTC) and have customizable terms.


   Speculating with Commodity Futures Contracts  

Commodities futures contracts can be used by speculators to make directional price bets on the underlying asset's price. Positions can be taken in either direction, meaning investors can go long (or buy), as well as go short (or sell) the commodity.



Commodity futures use a high degree of leverage so that the investor doesn't need to put up the total amount of the contract. Instead, a fraction of the total trade amount must be placed with the broker handling the account. The amount of leverage needed can vary, given the commodity and the broker.



As an example, let's say an initial margin amount of $3,700 allows an investor to enter into a futures contract for 1,000 barrels of oil valued at $45,000—with oil priced at $45 per barrel. If the price of oil is trading at $60 at the contract's expiry, the investor has a $15 gain or a $15,000 profit. The trades would settle through the investor's brokerage account crediting the net difference of the two contracts. Most futures contracts will be cash-settled, but some contracts will settle with the delivery of the underlying asset to a centralized processing warehouse.



Considering the significant amount of leverage with futures trading, a small move in the price of a commodity could result in large gains or losses compared to the initial margin. Speculating on futures is an advanced trading strategy and not fit for the risk tolerance of most investors.


  Risks of Commodity Speculating  

Unlike options, futures are the obligation of the purchase or sale of the underlying asset. As a result, failure to close an existing position could result in an inexperienced investor taking delivery of a large number of unwanted commodities.



Trading in commodity futures contracts can be very risky for the inexperienced. The high degree of leverage used with commodity futures can amplify gains, as well as losses. If a futures contract position is losing money, the broker can initiate a margin call, which is a demand for additional funds to shore up the account. The broker will usually have to approve an account to trade on margins before it can enter into contracts.


   Hedging with Commodity Futures Contracts  

Another reason to enter the futures market is to hedge the price of a commodity. Businesses use futures to lock in prices of the commodities they sell or use in production.



The goal of hedging is to prevent losses from potentially unfavorable price changes rather than to speculate. Many companies that hedge use or produce the underlying asset of a futures contract. Examples include farmers, oil producers, livestock breeders, and manufacturers.



For example, a plastics producer could use commodity futures to lock in a price for buying natural gas by-products needed for production at a date in the future. The price of natural gas—like all petroleum products—can fluctuate considerably, leaving an unhedged plastics producer at risk of cost increases in the future.



If a company locks in the price and the price increases, the manufacturer would have a profit on the commodity hedge. The profit from the contract would offset the increased cost of purchasing the product. Alternatively, the company could take delivery of the product at a cheaper fixed price.


  Risks of Commodity Hedging  

Hedging a commodity can lead to a company missing out on favorable price moves since the contract is locked in at a fixed rate regardless of where the commodity's price trades afterward.



Also, if the company miscalculates its needs for the commodity and over-hedges, it could lead to having to unwind the futures contract for a loss when selling it back to the market.





Pros

Leveraged margin accounts only require a fraction of the total contract amount deposited initially.
Speculators and companies can trade both sides of the market.
Companies can hedge the price of necessary commodities, and control costs.



Cons

The high degree of leverage can amplify losses and lead to margin calls and significant losses.
Hedging a commodity can lead to a company missing out on favorable price moves since the contract is fixed.
If a company over hedges a commodity, it can lead to losses from unwinding the contract.





   Example of Commodity Futures  

Business owners can use commodity futures contracts to fix the selling prices of their products weeks, months, or years in advance.



For example, let's say a farmer expects to produce 1,000,000 bushels of soybeans in the next 12 months. Typically, soybean futures contracts include the quantity of 5,000 bushels. The farmer's break-even point on a bushel of soybeans is $10 per bushel, meaning $10 is the minimum price needed to cover the costs of producing the soybeans.



The farmer sees that a one-year futures contract for soybeans is currently priced at $15 per bushel. The farmer decides to lock in the $15 selling price per bushel by selling enough one-year soybean contracts to cover the harvest. The farmer needs 200 futures contracts (1,000,000 bushels needed / 5,000 bushels per contract = 200 contracts).



One year later, regardless of price, the farmer delivers the 1,000,000 bushels and receives the locked-in price of $15 x 200 contracts x 5000 bushels, or $15,000,000 in total income.



Unless soybeans were priced at $15 per bushel in the market on the expiration date, the farmer had either gotten paid more than the prevailing market price or missed out on higher prices. If soybeans were priced at $13 per bushel at expiry, the farmer's $15 hedge would be $2 per bushel higher than the market price for a gain of $2,000,000. On the other hand, if soybeans were trading at $17 per bushel at expiry, the $15 selling price from the contract means the farmer would have missed out on an additional $2 per bushel profit.


   How to Trade Commodity Futures  

These days, trading commodity futures online is a straightforward process. That said, you should do plenty of due diligence before jumping in.



Here are a few steps to take to help you get started:



Choose an online commodity broker that fits your needs (Interactive Brokers is a very popular commodity broker due to its wide selection of products, good service, and low commissions)
Fill out the financial documentation required to open an account
Fund the account
Develop a trading plan that fits your personal risk and return objectives
Start trading



When you start out, try to use small amounts and only make one trade at a time if possible. Don't overwhelm yourself. Overtrading can cause you to take on far more risk than you can handle.


   The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)  

Commodity futures contracts and their trading are regulated in the U.S. by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), a federally-mandated U.S. regulatory agency established by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Act of 1974.



The CFTC regulates the commodity futures and options markets. Its goals include the promotion of competitive and efficient futures markets and the protection of investors against manipulation, abusive trade practices, and fraud.


   Commodity Futures FAQs  
  Are Commodity Futures Contracts Transferable?  

Commodity futures contracts are standardized to facilitate trading on an exchange. But while they're easily transferable, the obligation within the contract remains valid.


  Why Do Commodity Brokers Use Forward and Futures Contracts?  

Both forward contracts and futures contracts are agreements to buy or sell an asset at a predetermined price at a specific date. Thus, commodity brokers use them primarily to mitigate the risk of fluctuating prices by "locking in" a price beforehand.


  How Do You Report Commodity Futures Gains and Losses on Your Taxes?  

The IRS requires a specific form when reporting gains and losses from commodity futures contracts: Form 6781. The IRS considers commodities and futures transactions as 1256 Contracts.


  What Is the Commodity Futures Modernization Act?  

The Commodity Futures Modernization Act (CFMA), signed into law on December 21, 2000, is U.S. federal legislation stating that over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives would remain unregulated.
What Is a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA)?  

A commodity trading advisor (CTA) is an individual or firm that provides personalized advice regarding the buying and selling of futures contracts, options on futures, and retail off-exchange forex contracts or swaps.



Advisors who give such advice are required to be registered as a CTA by the National Futures Association (NFA), the self-regulatory organization for the derivatives industry.





Key Takeaways

A commodity trading advisor (CTA) is a person or entity registered to provide advice regarding commodities trading.Advisors must meet specific proficiency requirements to be registered as a CTA.CTA registration requires CTAs to advise on all forms of commodity investments.With some exceptions, CTA registration is required by the National Futures Association (NFA).The NFA was created by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to register CTAs and ensure compliance with CFTC regulations and NFA rules.


   Understanding a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA)  

In 1922, the Grain Futures Act was passed, regulating futures trading. It was later replaced by the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936, which further regulated commodities and futures trading and required certain trading to be done on exchanges.



The Commodity Futures Trading Commission Act of 1974 was enacted to amend the Commodity Exchange Act. It created the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and marked the first use of the term commodity trading advisor (CTA).



Investing in commodities often involves the use of significant leverage and, therefore, requires a higher level of expertise to trade properly to avoid the potential for large losses. The CFTC has gradually expanded the requirements for CTA registration over time. It established the NFA to handle CTA registration and ensure that registered members complied with CFTC regulations and NFA rules.



A CTA is a financial advisor who provides advice specifically related to commodities trading. To obtain the CTA registration, applicants must meet certain proficiency requirements, including passing the Series 3 National Commodity Futures Exam. Certain criteria, if met, can exempt advisors from CTA registration.






The Great Salad Oil Swindle of 1963 led to the bankruptcy of 16 firms, including two Wall Street brokerages and a subsidiary of American Express. It sparked a cry for tighter regulation of the commodity futures markets.


   Exemptions From Registration  

Registration as a CTA by the National Futures Association is required for individuals or firms that provide advice on commodities trading unless one of the following criteria is met:



Advice is given to 15 people or less over the previous 12 months and the individual or firm does not hold itself out to the public as a CTA.The individual or firm is registered with the CFTC and the advice given concerning commodities investing is incidental to the individual's profession or the firm’s business.The advice provided is not based on knowledge of, or targeted directly to, a customer’s trading interests or trading account.


   Requirements  

Generally, CTA registration is required for principals of a firm as well as all employees who take orders from or give advice to the public. CTAs are required to provide advice regarding all forms of commodity investments, including futures contracts, forwards, options, and swaps.


   CTA Fund  

A CTA fund is a hedge fund that uses a managed futures strategy. It invests in futures contracts and uses a variety of trading strategies. These may include systematic trading and trend following. However, fund managers can actively manage investments using discretionary strategies, as well. CTA funds offering a managed futures strategy must be registered with the CFTC and NFA.




What's a Commodity Trading Advisor?
A commodity trading advisor, or CTA, is a person or firm that advises clients in the use of derivatives as investments. CTAs are required to be registered by the National Futures Association, the industry's independent, self-regulatory organization.




What Are Futures Contracts?
Futures contracts are a type of derivative. They involve a standardized contract to buy or sell a certain security at a specific price and at a specified time in the future. Futures are used by investors to hedge the value of securities they have positions in and to speculate on price movements.




What Is the National Futures Association?
The National Futures Association (NFA) is the derivative industry's sole self-regulatory organization. It was established by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to conduct the registration of commodity trading advisors. As part of its goal to protect the interests of the investing public, it also monitors the actions of CTAs to ensure that they follow its rules.
What Is Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1)?  

Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) is a component of Tier 1 capital that is primarily common stock held by a bank or other financial institution. CET1 is a capital measure that was introduced in 2014 as a precautionary way to protect the economy from a financial crisis, largely in the context of the European banking system. All Eurozone banks are expected to meet the minimum CET1 ratio requirements to their risk-weighted assets (RWAs) as outlined by financial regulators.





Key Takeaways

Common Equity Tier 1 covers liquid bank holdings such as cash and stock.The CET1 ratio compares a bank's capital against its assets.Additional Tier 1 capital is composed of instruments that are not common equity.In the event of a crisis, equity is taken first from Tier 1.Many bank stress tests against banks use Tier 1 capital as a starting measure to test the bank's liquidity and ability to survive a challenging monetary event.


   Understanding Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1)  

The Basel Committee formulated a reformed set of international standards to review and monitor banks' capital adequacy following the 2007-2008 financial crisis. These standards, which are collectively called Basel III, compare a bank’s assets with its capital to determine if the bank could stand the test of a crisis.



Capital is required by banks to absorb unexpected losses that arise during the normal course of the bank’s operations. The Basel III framework tightens capital requirements by limiting the type of capital that a bank may include in its different capital tiers and structures.



A bank’s capital structure consists of several tiers. These include:



Tier 1 Capital: Known as going concern or core capital, Tier 1 is used to fund a financial institution's business activities. It includes Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital and Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital.
Tier 2 Capital: This is often called gone concern or supplementary capital. This category is made up of things like hybrid capital instruments and subordinated term debt.
Tier 3 Capital: This type of capital includes market risk, commodities risk, and foreign currency risk and is the lowest quality of the three.



Common Equity Tier 1 is "the highest quality of regulatory capital, as it absorbs losses immediately when they occur," according to the Bank of International Settlements. A bank's Tier 1 capital must include a minimum ratio of 4.5% of CET1 to its RWAs.






CET1 is a measure of bank solvency that gauges a bank’s capital strength.


   Special Considerations  

A bank’s capital structure consists of Lower Tier 2, Upper Tier 1, AT1, and CET1. CET1 is at the bottom of the capital structure, which means that any losses incurred are first deducted from this tier in the event of a crisis. If the deduction results in the CET1 ratio dropping below its regulatory minimum, the bank must build its capital ratio back to the required level or risk being overtaken or shut down by regulators.



During the rebuilding phase, regulators may prevent the bank from paying dividends or employee bonuses. In the case of insolvency, the equity holders bear the losses first followed by the hybrid and convertible bondholders and then Tier 2 capital.





Stress Tests

The European Banking Authority conducts stress tests using the CET1 ratio from time to time to understand how much capital banks would have left in the adverse event of a financial crisis. The results of these tests have shown that most banks would be able to survive a crisis.


   Calculating Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital  

Tier 1 capital is calculated as Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus Additional Tier 1 capital. CET1 comprises a bank’s core capital and includes common shares, stock surpluses resulting from the issue of common shares, retained earnings, common shares issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties, and accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI).



Additional Tier 1 capital is defined as instruments that are not common equity but are eligible for inclusion in this tier. An example of AT1 capital is a contingent convertible or hybrid security, which has a perpetual term and can be converted into equity when a trigger event occurs. An event that causes a security to be converted to equity occurs when CET1 capital falls below a certain threshold.



This measure is better captured by the CET1 ratio, which measures a bank’s capital against its assets. Because not all assets have the same risk, the assets acquired by a bank are weighted based on the credit risk and market risk that each asset presents.



Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio = Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ÷ Risk-Weighted Assets



For example, a government bond may be characterized as a "no-risk asset" and given a zero percent risk weighting. On the other hand, a subprime mortgage may be classified as a high-risk asset and weighted 65%. According to Basel III capital and liquidity rules, all banks must have a minimum CET1 to RWAs ratio of 4.5%.




How Are Tier 1 Capital and CET1 Capital Different?
CET1 capital is one component of total Tier 1 capital. The other is known as additional Tier 1 capital (AT1). AT1 + CET1 = Tier 1 capital.




What Is the Minimum Tier 1 Capital a Bank Can Have?
The Basel Accords spelled out the minimum capital requirements for banks. They must maintain a minimum capital ratio of 8%, of which 6% must be Tier 1 capital. 




What Does a Low CET1 Ratio Mean?
A low CET1 ratio implies an insufficient level of Tier 1 capital. In such a case, a bank may not be able to absorb a financial shock and may need to be bailed out quickly in the event of a financial crisis.



Correction—Nov. 16, 2022: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Eurozone banks must maintain a minimum CET1 ratio of 15.1% of risk-weighted assets.
What Is Common Law?  

Common law is a body of unwritten laws based on legal precedents established by the courts. Common law influences the decision-making process in unusual cases where the outcome cannot be determined based on existing statutes or written rules of law. The U.S. common-law system evolved from a British tradition that spread to North America during the 17th- and 18th-century colonial period. Common law is also practiced in Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, India, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom.





Key Takeaways

Common law, also known as case law, is a body of unwritten laws based on legal precedents established by the courts.Common law draws from institutionalized opinions and interpretations from judicial authorities and public juries.Common laws sometimes prove the inspiration for new legislation to be enacted.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Common Law  

A precedent, known as stare decisis, is a history of judicial decisions which form the basis of evaluation for future cases. Common law, also known as case law, relies on detailed records of similar situations and statutes because there is no official legal code that can apply to a case at hand.



The judge presiding over a case determines which precedents apply to that particular case. The example set by higher courts is binding on cases tried in lower courts. This system promotes stability and consistency in the U.S. legal justice system. However, lower courts can choose to modify or deviate from precedents if they are outdated or if the current case is substantially different from the precedent case. Lower courts can also choose to overturn the precedent, but this rarely occurs.












Investopedia / Sabrina Jiang






   Common Law vs. Civil Law  

Civil law is a comprehensive, codified set of legal statutes created by legislators. A civil system clearly defines the cases that can be brought to court, the procedures for handling claims, and the punishment for an offense. Judicial authorities use the conditions in the applicable civil code to evaluate the facts of each case and make legislative decisions. While civil law is regularly updated, the goal of standardized codes is to create order and reduce biased systems in which laws are applied differently from case to case.



Common law draws from institutionalized opinions and interpretations from judicial authorities and public juries. Similar to civil law, the goal of common law is to establish consistent outcomes by applying the same standards of interpretation. In some instances, precedent depends on the case-by-case traditions of individual jurisdictions. As a result, elements of common law may differ between districts.


   Common Law Marriage  

A common law marriage, also known as a non-ceremonial marriage, is a legal framework that may allow couples to be considered married without having formally registered their union as either a civil or religious marriage. While common law is not common among the U.S., there are a number of states that have statutes or allow for common law marriage if they meet certain requirements:



ColoradoIowaKansasMontanaNew HampshireSouth CarolinaTexas



A number of states, including Alabama, recently abolished the statutes allowing for common law marriage.


   Special Considerations  

As judges present the precedents which apply to a case, they can significantly influence the criteria that a jury uses to interpret a case. Historically, the traditions of common law have led to unfair marginalization or disempowerment of certain groups. Whether they are outdated or biased, past decisions continue to shape future rulings until societal changes prompt a judicial body to overturn the precedent.



This system makes it difficult for marginalized parties to pursue favorable rulings until popular thought or civil legislation changes the interpretation of common law. Feminists in the 19th and early 20th centuries who fought for women's rights often faced such difficulties. For example, in England, common law as late as the 1970s held that, when couples divorced, fathers—rather than mothers—were entitled to custody of the children, a bias that in effect kept women trapped in marriages.


   Example of Common Law  

From time to time, common law has furnished the basis for new legislation to be written. For example, the U.K. has long had a common-law offense of "outraging public decency." In the last decade, the authorities have used this ancient common law to prosecute a new intrusive activity called upskirting: the practice of sticking a camera in between a person's legs, without their consent or knowledge, to take a photo or video of their private parts for sexual gratification or to humiliate or distress.



In February 2019, the U.K. Parliament passed the Voyeurism (Offences) Act that officially makes upskirting a crime, punishable by up to two years in prison and the possibility of placing a convicted individual on the sex offenders register.


   Common Law FAQs  
  What is a simple definition of common law?  

Common law is a body of unwritten laws based on legal precedents established by the courts.


  Is common law still used today?  

Today the US operates under a dual system of both common and civil law. The courts, for example, operate under common law.


  What is an example of common law?  

The concept of common-law marriage, which acknowledges similar rights as those that have a marriage license to couples that are not officially married if several conditions are met, is one example of common law in action today.


  Why is common law important?  

Common law places an emphasis on precedent while allowing some freedom for interpretation. The value of a common-law system is that the law can be adapted to situations that were not contemplated at that time by the legislature. 


  What is UK common law?  

US common law originates from medieval England, however, today both the US and UK operate under a dual system of both common and civil law.


   The Bottom Line  

Although common law is derived from its original appearance in medieval England, it is still very much in effect in the US and elsewhere today. As the evolution of technology and its presence in our lives continues to grow, common law's ability to leave the legal code open for interpretation will become increasingly important.
What Is a Common Size Financial Statement?  

A common size financial statement displays items as a percentage of a common base figure, total sales revenue, for example. This type of financial statement allows for easy analysis between companies, or between periods, for the same company. However, if the companies use different accounting methods, any comparison may not be accurate.





Key Takeaways

A common size financial statement displays entries as a percentage of a common base figure rather than as absolute numerical figures.Common size statements let analysts compare companies of different sizes, in different industries, or across time in an apples-to-apples way.Common size financial statements commonly include the income statement, balance sheet, and cash flow statement.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Common Size Financial Statements  

While most firms do not report their statements in common size format, it is beneficial for analysts to do so to compare two or more companies of differing size or different sectors of the economy. Formatting financial statements in this way reduces bias that can occur and allows for the analysis of a company over various periods. This analysis reveals, for example, what percentage of sales is the cost of goods sold and how that value has changed over time. Common size financial statements commonly include the income statement, balance sheet, and cash flow statement.



Common size financial statements reduce all figures to a comparable figure, such as a percentage of sales or assets. Each financial statement uses a slightly different convention in standardizing figures.






Common size financial statements make it easier to determine what drives a company's profits and to compare the company to similar businesses.


  Common Size Balance Sheet Statement  

The balance sheet provides a snapshot overview of the firm's assets, liabilities, and shareholders' equity for the reporting period. A common size balance sheet is set up with the same logic as the common size income statement. The balance sheet equation is assets equals liabilities plus stockholders' equity.



The balance sheet thus represents a percentage of assets. Another version of the common size balance sheet shows asset line items as a percentage of total assets, liabilities as a percentage of total liabilities, and stockholders' equity as a percentage of total stockholders' equity.


  Common Size Cash Flow Statement  

The cash flow statement provides an overview of the firm's sources and uses of cash. The cash flow statement is divided among cash flows from operations, cash flows from investing, and cash flows from financing. Each section provides additional information about the sources and uses of cash in each business activity.



One version of the common size cash flow statement expresses all line items as a percentage of total cash flow. The more popular version expresses cash flow in terms of total operational cash flow for items in cash flows from operations, total investing cash flows for cash flows from investing activities, and total financing cash flows for cash flows from financing activities.


  Common Size Income Statement  

The income statement (also referred to as the profit and loss (P&L) statement) provides an overview of flows of sales, expenses, and net income during the reporting period. The income statement equation is sales minus expenses and adjustments equals net income. This is why the common size income statement defines all items as a percentage of sales. The term "common size" is most often used when analyzing elements of the income statement, but the balance sheet and the cash flow statement can also be expressed as a common size statement.


   Real-World Example of a Common Size Income Statement  

For example, if a company has a simple income statement with gross sales of $100,000, cost of goods sold of $50,000, taxes of $1,000 and net income of $49,000, the common size statement would read as follows:









Sales
1.00


Cost of goods sold
0.50


Taxes
0.01


Net Income
0.49
What Is a Common Size Income Statement?  

A common size income statement is an income statement in which each line item is expressed as a percentage of the value of revenue or sales. It is used for vertical analysis, in which each line item in a financial statement is represented as a percentage of a base figure within the statement.



Common size financial statements help to analyze and compare a company's performance over several periods with varying sales figures. The common size percentages can be subsequently compared to those of competitors to determine how the company is performing relative to the industry.





Key Takeaways

A common size income statement is an income statement whereby each line item is expressed as a percentage of revenue or sales.The common size percentages help to show how each line item or component affects the financial position of the company.Common size financial statements help to compare a company's performance over several periods as well as against a competitor's.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   How the Common Size Income Statement Is Used  

Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) are based on consistency and comparability of financial statements. A common size income statement makes it easier to see what's driving a company’s profits. The common size percentages also help to show how each line item or component affects the financial position of the company. As a result, the financial statement user can more easily compare the financial performance to the company's peers.



By analyzing how a company's financial results have changed over time, common size financial statements help investors spot trends that a standard financial statement may not uncover. The common size percentages help to highlight any consistency in the numbers over time–whether those trends are positive or negative. Large changes in the percentage of revenue as compared to the various expense categories over a given period could be a sign that the business model, sales performance, or manufacturing costs are changing.



Common size financial statement analysis can also be applied to the balance sheet and the statement of cash flows.





Important

Common size income statements with easy-to-read percentages allow for more consistent and comparable financial statement analysis over time and between competitors.


   Example of a Common Size Income Statement  

The standard figure used in the analysis of a common size income statement is total sales revenue. The common size percentages are calculated to show each line item as a percentage of the standard figure or revenue.



It's important to note that the common size calculation is the same as calculating a company’s margins. The net profit margin is simply net income divided by sales revenue, which happens to be a common-size analysis. The same goes for calculating the gross margin (sales revenue minus the cost of goods sold, divided by sales revenue), and operating margin (gross profit minus selling & general administrative expenses, divided by sales revenue).












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



For example, Company A has an income statement with the above line items: revenue, cost of goods sold (COGS), selling & general administrative expenses (S&GA), taxes, and net income. Net income is calculated by subtracting COGS, S&GA expenses, and taxes from revenue. If revenue is $100,000, COGS is $50,000 and S&GA is $10,000, then gross profit is $50,000, operating profit is $40,000, and net income is $31,600 (taxes at 21%).



The common size version of this income statement divides each line item by revenue, or $100,000. Revenue divided by $100,000 is 100%. COGS divided by $100,000 is 50%, operating profit divided by $100,000 is 40%, and net income divided by $100,000 is 32%. As we can see, gross margin is 50%, operating margin is 40%, and the net profit margin is 32%–the common size income statement figures.
What Is Common Stock?  

Common stock is a security that represents ownership in a corporation. Holders of common stock elect the board of directors and vote on corporate policies. This form of equity ownership typically yields higher rates of return long term. However, in the event of liquidation, common shareholders have rights to a company's assets only after bondholders, preferred shareholders, and other debtholders are paid in full.



Common stock is reported in the stockholder's equity section of a company's balance sheet.





Key Takeaways

Common stock is a security that represents ownership in a corporation.In a liquidation, common stockholders receive whatever assets remain after creditors, bondholders, and preferred stockholders are paid.There are different varieties of stocks traded in the market. For example, value stocks are stocks that are lower in price in relation to their fundamentals. Growth stocks are companies that tend to increase in value due to growing earnings.Investors should diversify their portfolio by putting money into different securities based on their appetite for risk.


   Understanding Common Stock  

Common stock represents a residual claim to a company's ongoing and future profits. As such, shareholders are said to be part-owners in a company. This does not mean that shareholders can walk into a company's offices and claim ownership of a portion of the chairs or desks or computers. These things are owned by the corporation itself, which is a legal entity. Instead, the shareholders own this residual claim. Common stock is traded on exchanges and may be bought and sold by investors or traders. Shareholders of common stock may be entitled to receive dividends.



The first-ever common stock was established in 1602 by the Dutch East India Company and introduced on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Over the following 400+ years, stock markets have appeared around the world, with tens of thousands of companies listed on global stock exchanges such as the London Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, among others.



Larger U.S.-based stocks are traded on a public exchange, such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) or NASDAQ. As of Q1 2022, the NYSE had 7,417 listings with a market capitalization totaling around $53 trillion, making it the biggest stock exchange in the world by market cap. There are also several international exchanges for foreign stocks, Companies that are smaller in size and unable to meet an exchange’s listing requirements are considered unlisted. These unlisted stocks are said to be traded over-the-counter (OTC).






   Special Considerations  
  Corporate Bankruptcy  

With common stock, if a company goes bankrupt, the common stockholders do not receive their money until the creditors, bondholders, and preferred shareholders have received their respective share. This makes common stock riskier than debt or preferred shares. The upside to common shares is they usually outperform bonds and preferred shares in the long run. Many companies issue all three types of securities. For example, Wells Fargo & Company has several bonds available on the secondary market. It also has preferred stock, such as its Series L (NYSE: WFC-L), and common stock (NYSE: WFC).


  IPOs  

For a company to issue stock, it must begin by having an initial public offering (IPO). An IPO is a great way for a company, seeking additional capital, to expand. To begin the IPO process, a company must work with an underwriting investment banking firm, which helps determine both the type and pricing of the stock. After the IPO phase is completed, the general public is allowed to purchase the new stock on the secondary market.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Common Stock and Investors  

Stocks should be considered an important part of any investor’s portfolio. They bear a greater amount of risk when compared to CDs, preferred stock, and bonds. However, with the greater risk comes the greater potential for reward. Over the long term, stocks tend to outperform other investments but are more exposed to volatility over the short term.



There are also several types of stocks. Growth stocks are companies that tend to increase in value due to growing earnings. Value stocks are companies lower in price in relation to their fundamentals. Value stocks offer a dividend, unlike growth stocks. Stocks are categorized by market capitalization - either large, mid, or small. Large-cap stocks are much more heavily traded and are generally an indication of a more stable company. Small-cap stocks are usually newer companies looking to grow; so, they can be much more volatile compared to large caps.




How Does Common Stock Differ From Preferred Stock?
Common stock is the most widely available type of shares issued by a company and what you will likely encounter when trading stocks on an exchange. These shares typically come with voting rights, but are the last in line in the preference ordering of being repaid if a company goes bankrupt. Preferred shares come ahead of common stock in that ordering. Preferred shares also often lack voting rights, but do come with regular and higher dividend payments. In this respect, preferred shares are sometimes considered to be a hybrid between bonds and common stock.




How Can I Use Common Stock to Vote at Company Meetings?
Most ordinary common shares come with 1 vote per share, granting shareholders the right to vote on corporate actions, often conducted a company's meeting of shareholders. If you cannot attend, you can choose to cast your vote by proxy instead, whereby a third party will vote on your behalf (along with others who cannot attend). Votes may be held on issues such as whether to merge with or acquire a company, to elect members of the board of directors, or to approve stock splits or dividends.




Why Is Common Stock Referred to as an Equity?
Common stock represents a residual ownership stake in a company. A company maintains a balance sheet composed of assets and liabilities. Assets are the things that the company owns or is entitled to, such as its property, equipment, cash reserves, and accounts receivable. On the other side of the balance sheet are liabilities, which are what the company owes. These include payables, debts, and other obligations. If a company is healthy, the total assets will be larger than the total liabilities. What is left over is the residual amount left to the owners, known as shareholders' equity. This is represented by a company's shares.
What Is Communism?  

Communism is a political and economic ideology that positions itself in opposition to liberal democracy and capitalism, advocating instead for a classless system in which the means of production are owned communally and private property is nonexistent or severely curtailed. 





Key Takeaways

Communism is an economic ideology that advocates for a classless society in which all property and wealth are communally owned, instead of being owned by individuals.Visions of a society that may be considered communist appeared as long ago as the 4th Century BCE.Modern communist ideology began to develop during the French Revolution, and its seminal tract, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels' "Communist Manifesto," was published in 1848.Communism was pitted against capitalism, which relies on democracy and production of capital to form a society.Prominent examples of communism were the Soviet Union and China. While the former collapsed in 1991, the latter has drastically revised its economy to include some capitalism.


   Understanding Communism  

"Communism" is an umbrella term that encompasses a range of ideologies. The term's modern usage originated with Victor d'Hupay, an 18th-century French aristocrat who advocated living in "communes" in which all property would be shared, and "all may benefit from everybody's work."



The idea was hardly new, even at that time, however: The Bible's Book of Acts describes 1st-Century Christian communities holding property in common, according to a system known as koinonia, which inspired later religious groups such as the 17th-century English "Diggers" to reject private ownership.


   The Communist Manifesto  

Modern communist ideology began to develop during the French Revolution, and its seminal tract, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels' "Communist Manifesto," was published in 1848. That pamphlet rejected the Christian tenor of previous communist philosophies, laying out a materialist and—its proponents claim—scientific analysis of the history and future trajectory of human society. "The history of all hitherto existing society," Marx and Engels wrote, "is the history of class struggles."



The Communist Manifesto presented the French Revolution as a major historical turning point when the "bourgeoisie"—the merchant class that was in the process of consolidating control over the "means of production"—overturned the feudal power structure and ushered in the modern, capitalist era. That revolution replaced the medieval class struggle, which pitted the nobility against the serfs, with the modern one pitting the bourgeois owners of capital against the "proletariat," the working class who sell their labor for wages.



In the Communist Manifesto and later works, Marx, Engels, and their followers advocated for (and predicted as historically inevitable) a global proletarian revolution, which would usher in first an era of socialism, then of communism.






In Communist theory, the final stage of human development would mark the end of class struggle and therefore of history: All people would live in social equilibrium, without class distinctions, family structures, religion, or property. The state, too, would "wither away."



The Communist economy would function, as a popular Marxist slogan puts it, "from each according to his ability, to each according to his needs."


   The Soviet Union  

Marx and Engels' theories wouldn't be tested in the real world until after their deaths. In 1917, during World War I, an uprising in Russia toppled the czar and sparked a civil war that eventually saw a group of radical Marxists led by Vladimir Lenin gain power in 1922. The Bolsheviks, as this group was called, founded the Soviet Union on former Imperial Russian territory and attempted to put communist theory into practice.



Prior to the Bolshevik Revolution, Lenin had developed the Marxist theory of vanguardism, which argued that a close-knit group of politically enlightened elites was necessary to usher in the higher stages of economic and political evolution: socialism and finally communism.



Lenin died shortly after the civil war ended, but the "dictatorship of the proletariat," led by his successor Joseph Stalin, would pursue brutal ethnic and ideological purges as well as forced agricultural collectivization. Tens of millions died during Stalin's rule, from 1922 to 1953, on top of the tens of millions who died as a result of the war with Nazi Germany.






Rather than withering away, the Soviet state became a powerful one-party institution that prohibited dissent and occupied the "commanding heights" of the economy. Agriculture, the banking system, and industrial production were subject to quotas and price controls laid out in a series of Five Year Plans.



This system of central planning enabled rapid industrialization, and from 1950 to 1965, growth in Soviet gross domestic product (GDP) outpaced that of the U.S. In general, however, the Soviet economy grew at a much slower pace than its capitalist, democratic counterparts.



Weak consumer spending was a particular drag on growth. Central planners' emphasis on heavy industry led to chronic underproduction of consumer goods, and long lines at understocked grocery stores were a fixture of Soviet life even during periods of relative prosperity.



The Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 after a push to reform the economic and political system and provide greater room for private enterprise and free expression. These reform pushes, known as perestroika and glasnost, respectively, didn't halt the economic decline the Soviet Union suffered in the 1980s and likely hastened the Communist state's end by loosening its grip on sources of dissent.


   Communist China  

In 1949, after more than 20 years of war with the Chinese Nationalist Party and Imperial Japan, Mao Zedong's Communist Party gained control of China to form the world's second major Marxist-Leninist state. Mao allied the country with the Soviet Union, but the Soviets' policies of de-Stalinization and "peaceful coexistence" with the capitalist West led to a diplomatic split with China around 1958.



Mao's rule in China resembled Stalin's in its violence, deprivation, and insistence on ideological purity. During the Great Leap Forward from 1958 to 1962, the Communist Party ordered the rural population to produce enormous quantities of steel in an effort to jumpstart an industrial revolution in China.



The same period's Great Chinese Famine killed at least 16 million people and perhaps more than 45 million. The Cultural Revolution, an ideological purge that lasted from 1966 until Mao's death in 1976, killed perhaps a further 1.6 million people and subjected millions of others to political persecution.



After Mao's death, Deng Xiaoping introduced a series of market reforms that remained in effect under his successors. The U.S. began normalizing relations with China when President Nixon visited in 1972, prior to Mao's death.



The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) remains in power, presiding over a largely capitalist system, though state-owned enterprises continue to form a large part of the economy. Freedom of expression is significantly curtailed and meaningful opposition to the reining Communist Party isn't permitted. In short, it would take a miracle for the CCP to be ousted.





1991

The year marked the collapse of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War between that power and the U.S.


   The Cold War  

The U.S. emerged from World War II as the world's richest and most militarily powerful nation. As a liberal democracy that had just defeated fascist dictatorships in two theaters, the country—if not all of its people—felt a sense of exceptionalism and historical purpose. So did the Soviet Union, its ally in the fight against Germany and the world's only revolutionary Marxist state. The two powers promptly divided Europe into spheres of political and economic influence: Winston Churchill called this dividing line the "Iron Curtain."



The two superpowers, both of which possessed nuclear weapons after 1949, engaged in a long standoff known as the Cold War. The closest the U.S. came to a direct military conflict with the Soviet Union was the 1962 Cuban missile crisis.



The U.S. did fight a prolonged war in Vietnam, however, in which its military supported South Vietnamese forces fighting the Chinese- and Soviet-supported North Vietnamese army and South Vietnamese communist guerrillas. The U.S. withdrew from the war and Vietnam was united under communist rule in 1975.



The Cold War ended with the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.






Communism failed for several reasons, including a lack of profit incentive among citizens, the failure of central planning, and the impact of power being seized by such a small number of people, who then exploited it and gamed the system.


   Why Did Communism Fail?  

While there has been extensive study of the reasons for communism's failure, researchers have pinpointed a couple of common factors that contributed to its demise.



The first is an absence of incentives among citizens to produce for profit. The profit incentive leads to competition and innovation in society. But an ideal citizen in a communist society was selflessly devoted to societal causes and rarely stopped to think about their own welfare.



The second reason for communism's failure was the system's inherent inefficiencies, such as centralized planning. This form of planning requires aggregation and synthesis of enormous amounts of data at a granular level. Because all projects were planned centrally, this form of planning was also complex. In several instances, growth data was fudged or error-prone in order to make facts fit into planned statistics and create an illusion of progress.



The concentration of power in the hands of a select few also bred inefficiency and, paradoxically enough, provided them with incentives to game the system for their benefit and retain their hold on power. Corruption and laziness became endemic features of this system and surveillance, such as characterized East German and Soviet societies, was common. It also disincentivized industrious and hard-working people. In the end, the economy suffered.




What Is an Example of Communism?
An example of communism would be a commune where people live together and share responsibilities and possessions. Many of these communities function well, although they do tend to be small in scale.




What Countries Are Still Communist?
Communism is the official form of government in China, Cuba, Laos, North Korea, and Vietnam. However, these countries also abide by some capitalist principles, are largely autocratic in nature, and don't reflect Marx’s definition of the term.




What Is the Difference Between Communism and Socialism?
Both communism and socialism advocate public over private ownership, champion equality, and seek to give power to the working class. However, socialism is viewed as a more moderate ideology. Unlike communism, it permits the continued existence of capitalism in some parts of the economy and favors gradual change over revolution.


   The Bottom Line  

Communism, as a theory, has been around since the beginning of humanity. However, it was the French Revolution, Karl Marx, and Friedrich Engels who turned it into an influential political ideology. 



Since then, the idea of a classless society in which all property and wealth are communally owned has been tarnished somewhat. While it has existed harmoniously in smaller communities, on a larger level communism has so far failed to be successfully implemented. The two major examples we have are in Russia and China, where communist leaders ruled with violence and suppression and often gamed the system for their own benefit.



Some say this proves communism doesn’t work. Others argue that these regimes deviated from communism and shouldn’t, therefore, be considered as examples.
What Is the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA)?  

The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) is a federal law enacted in 1977 to encourage depository institutions to meet the credit needs of the communities where they are chartered, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods.



The CRA requires federal banking agencies to assess how well each institution fulfills its obligations to these communities. The agencies must consider these performance ratings when evaluating applications for future approval of bank mergers, charters, acquisitions, branch openings, and deposit facilities.





Key Takeaways


The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) helps ensure that federally insured banks meet the credit needs of the communities in which they are located, consistent with safe and sound banking practices.
The CRA was one of several laws passed during the late 1960s and 1970s to expand access to credit.
Though regulators look at the lending activity and other data in their evaluation, there are no specific benchmarks banks have to meet.
CRA performance ratings are available online and upon request at local bank branches.



   Understanding the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA)  

Before the Community Reinvestment Act (and other fair housing laws), U.S. banks systematically denied mortgages to Black Americans and other people of color who lived in certain areas "redlined" by a federal government agency called the Home Owners' Loan Corporation (HOLC). The HOLC created maps that classified neighborhoods across the country on a "perceived level of lending risk" based on information gathered from various sources, including local appraisers, loan officers, city officials, and real estate agents.



The neighborhoods were color-coded on maps, with each color representing the area's perceived risk to lenders. HOLC deemed the red communities hazardous, describing them as "characterized by detrimental influences in a pronounced degree, undesirable population, or an infiltration of it." Neighborhoods with predominantly racial and ethnic minority populations were colored red—hence, "redlined."



The maps were a tool for widespread racial discrimination. The immediate effect of redlining was that residents in these areas couldn't access credit to buy or improve housing. However, the long-term effects of redlining persist:



74% of neighborhoods that HOLC colored red ("hazardous") more than 80 years ago are low- to moderate-income neighborhoods today.64% of the "hazardous" neighborhoods remain racial and ethnic minority neighborhoods today.91% of areas colored green ("best") in the 1930s remain middle- to upper-income areas today, and 85% are still predominantly White.






Housing discrimination and lending discrimination are illegal. If you think you've been discriminated against based on race, religion, sex, marital status, use of public assistance, national origin, disability, or age, you can file a complaint with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).



The objective of the Community Reinvestment Act was to strengthen existing laws requiring banks to sufficiently address the banking needs of all members of the communities they served.



Three federal regulators—the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the Federal Reserve Board—share oversight of the CRA. However, the last is chiefly responsible for assessing whether state member banks are fulfilling their obligations under the law.


   CRA Performance Ranking  

The Federal Reserve uses one of five methods to rank a bank’s performance based on its size and mission. Though a 1995 update to the CRA requires regulators to consider lending and investment data, the evaluation process is somewhat subjective, with no specific quotas that banks have to satisfy. Still, each bank is given one of the following ratings:



OutstandingSatisfactoryNeeds to improveSubstantial noncompliance



The FDIC maintains an online database where the public can see a particular bank’s score. Additionally, banks are obliged to provide consumers with their performance evaluations upon request.






The CRA applies to FDIC-insured depository institutions, including national banks, state-chartered banks, and savings associations. However, credit unions backed by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund and other non-bank entities are exempt from the legislation.


   Criticisms of the CRA  

Critics of the CRA, including some conservative politicians and pundits, allege the law contributed to the risky lending practices that led to the financial crisis of 2008. They contend that banks and other lenders relaxed certain standards for mortgage approvals to satisfy CRA examiners.



However, some economists, including Neil Bhutta and Daniel Ringo of the Federal Reserve Bank, argued in 2015 that CRA-based mortgages represented a small percentage of the subprime loans issued during the financial crisis. As a result, Bhutta and Ringo concluded, the law was not a major factor in the housing market’s subsequent downturn.



The CRA has also received criticism that it has not been particularly effective. Though low- and moderate-income communities saw an influx of loans after the CRA’s passage, research by the Federal Reserve’s Jeffrey Gunther concluded that lenders not subject to the law—that is, credit unions and other non-banks—represented an equal share of those loans.


   Modernizing the CRA  

More recently, some economists and policymakers have suggested the law needs to be revised to keep up with changes in the industry and make the evaluation process less onerous for banks. For example, the physical location of bank branches remains a component in the scoring process, even though an increasing number of consumers are conducting their banking online.



In a 2018 op-ed piece, former Comptroller of the Currency Joseph Otting asserted that the CRA’s outdated approach had led to “investment deserts,” where "CRA activity often fails to reach by preventing banks from receiving consideration when they want to lend and invest in communities with a need for capital."



The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency in May 2020 issued a final rule to "strengthen and modernize" existing Community Reinvestment Act regulations. According to a news release, the proposed changes received more than 7,500 comments from stakeholders in response to the notice of proposed rulemaking announced on Dec. 12, 2019.



Critics, such as the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, said the new rule would reduce banks' public accountability to communities by limiting consideration of bank branches and bank deposit accounts in communities. But Otting said it "strengthened and modernized" the law, saying the final rule increased credit for mortgage origination to promote affordable mortgage availability in lower- and moderate-income areas.



However, in December 2021, the OCC rescinded the June 2020 rule to be replaced with a rule designed jointly by the OCC, Federal Reserve, and FDIC. On May 5, 2022, the agencies jointly proposed a new rule intended to account for the ubiquity of online banking and distribute reinvestment more broadly across the country.




What Are the U.S. Fair Lending Laws?
Fair lending laws prohibit lenders from discriminating based on specific protected classes during any aspect of a credit transaction. Several statutes comprise federal fair lending laws and regulations, including the:Fair Housing Act of 1968Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975Community Reinvestment Act of 1977




What Is Redlining?
Redlining is the now-illegal discriminatory practice of denying credit to residents of certain areas based on their race or ethnicity. Sociologist John McKnight coined the term in the 1960s to describe maps created by the Home Owners’ Loan Corporation (a U.S. government agency) that marked racial and ethnic minority neighborhoods in red, labeling them “hazardous” to lenders.




What Factors Can Lenders Consider When Making Loans?
Lending institutions can only consider factors relevant to an applicant's creditworthiness (their ability to pay). It's illegal for lenders to consider factors that are unrelated to creditworthiness, including the applicant's race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, and participation in public assistance programs.
What Is a Comparable Company Analysis (CCA)  

A comparable company analysis (CCA) is a process used to evaluate the value of a company using the metrics of other businesses of similar size in the same industry. Comparable company analysis operates under the assumption that similar companies will have similar valuation multiples, such as EV/EBITDA. Analysts compile a list of available statistics for the companies being reviewed and calculate the valuation multiples in order to compare them.


   Understanding Comparable Company Analysis (CCA)  

One of the first things every banker learns is how to do a comp analysis or comparable company analysis. The process of creating a comparable company analysis is fairly straightforward. The information the report provides is used to determine a ballpark estimate of value for the stock price or the firm's value.





Key Takeaways

Comparable company analysis is the process of comparing companies based on similar metrics to determine their enterprise value.A company's valuation ratio determines whether it is overvalued or undervalued. If the ratio is high, then it is overvalued. If it is low, then the company is undervalued. ﻿The most common valuation measures used in comparable company analysis are enterprise value to sales (EV/S), price to earnings (P/E), price to book (P/B), and price to sales (P/S).


   Comparable Company Analysis  

Comparable company analysis starts with establishing a peer group consisting of similar companies of similar size in the same industry or region. Investors are then able to compare a particular company to its competitors on a relative basis. This information can be used to determine a company's enterprise value (EV) and to calculate other ratios used to compare a company to those in its peer group.


   Relative vs. Comparable Company Analysis  

There are many ways to value a company. The most common approaches are based on cash flows and relative performance compared to peers. Models that are based on cash, such as the discounted cash flow (DCF) model, can help analysts calculate an intrinsic value based on future cash flows. This value is then compared to the actual market value. If the intrinsic value is higher than the market value, the stock is undervalued. If the intrinsic value is lower than the market value, the stock is overvalued.



In addition to intrinsic valuation, analysts like to confirm cash flow valuation with relative comparisons, and these relative comparisons allow the analyst to develop an industry benchmark or average.



The most common valuation measures used in comparable company analysis are enterprise value to sales (EV/S), price to earnings (P/E), price to book (P/B), and price to sales (P/S). If the company's valuation ratio is higher than the peer average, the company is overvalued. If the valuation ratio is lower than the peer average, the company is undervalued. Used together, intrinsic and relative valuation models provide a ballpark measure of valuation that can be used to help analysts gauge the true value of a company.


   Valuation and Transaction Metrics Used in Comps  

Comps can also be based on transaction multiples. Transactions are recent acquisitions in the same industry. Analysts compare multiples based on the purchase price of the company rather than the stock. If all companies in a particular industry are selling for an average of 1.5 times market value or 10 times earnings, it gives the analyst a way to use the same number to back into the value of a peer company based on these benchmarks.
What Is Comparative Advantage?  

Comparative advantage is an economy's ability to produce a particular good or service at a lower opportunity cost than its trading partners. Comparative advantage is used to explain why companies, countries, or individuals can benefit from trade.



When used to describe international trade, comparative advantage refers to the products that a country can produce more cheaply or easily than other countries. While this usually illustrates the benefits of trade, some contemporary economists now acknowledge that focusing only on comparative advantages can result in the exploitation and depletion of the country's resources.



The law of comparative advantage is popularly attributed to English political economist David Ricardo and his book On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation written in 1817, although it is likely that Ricardo's mentor, James Mill, originated the analysis.





Key Takeaways

Comparative advantage is an economy's ability to produce a particular good or service at a lower opportunity cost than its trading partners.The theory of comparative advantage introduces opportunity cost as a factor for analysis in choosing between different options for production.Comparative advantage suggests that countries will engage in trade with one another, exporting the goods that they have a relative advantage in.There are downsides to focusing only on a country's comparative advantages, which can exploit the country's labor and natural resources. Absolute advantage refers to the uncontested superiority of a country to produce a particular good better.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Comparative Advantage  

Comparative advantage is one of the most important concepts in economic theory and a fundamental tenet of the argument that all actors, at all times, can mutually benefit from cooperation and voluntary trade. It is also a foundational principle in the theory of international trade.



The key to understanding comparative advantage is a solid grasp of opportunity cost. Put simply, an opportunity cost is a potential benefit that someone loses out on when selecting a particular option over another.



In the case of comparative advantage, the opportunity cost (that is to say, the potential benefit that has been forfeited) for one company is lower than that of another. The company with the lower opportunity cost, and thus the smallest potential benefit which was lost, holds this type of advantage.



Another way to think of comparative advantage is as the best option given a trade-off. If you're comparing two different options, each of which has a trade-off (some benefits as well as some disadvantages), the one with the best overall package is the one with the comparative advantage.


  Diversity of Skills  

People learn their comparative advantages through wages. This drives people into those jobs that they are comparatively best at. If a skilled mathematician earns more money as an engineer than as a teacher, they and everyone they trade with are better off when they practice engineering.



Wider gaps in opportunity costs allow for higher levels of value production by organizing labor more efficiently. The greater the diversity in people and their skills, the greater the opportunity for beneficial trade through comparative advantage.


   Example of Comparative Advantage  

As an example, consider a famous athlete like Michael Jordan. As a renowned basketball and baseball star, Michael Jordan is an exceptional athlete whose physical abilities surpass those of most other individuals. Michael Jordan would likely be able to, say, paint his house quickly, owing to his abilities as well as his impressive height.



Hypothetically, say that Michael Jordan could paint his house in eight hours. In those same eight hours, though, he could also take part in the filming of a television commercial which would earn him $50,000. By contrast, Jordan's neighbor Joe could paint the house in 10 hours. In that same period of time, he could work at a fast food restaurant and earn $100.



In this example, Joe has a comparative advantage, even though Michael Jordan could paint the house faster and better. The best trade would be for Michael Jordan to film a television commercial and pay Joe to paint his house. So long as Michael Jordan makes the expected $50,000 and Joe earns more than $100, the trade is a winner. Owing to their diversity of skills, Michael Jordan and Joe would likely find this to be the best arrangement for their mutual benefit.


   Comparative Advantage vs. Absolute Advantage  

Comparative advantage is contrasted with absolute advantage. Absolute advantage refers to the ability to produce more or better goods and services than somebody else. Comparative advantage refers to the ability to produce goods and services at a lower opportunity cost, not necessarily at a greater volume or quality.



To see the difference, consider an attorney and their secretary. The attorney is better at producing legal services than the secretary and is also a faster typist and organizer. In this case, the attorney has an absolute advantage in both the production of legal services and secretarial work.



Nevertheless, they benefit from trade thanks to their comparative advantages and disadvantages. Suppose the attorney produces $175 per hour in legal services and $25 per hour in secretarial duties. The secretary can produce $0 in legal services and $20 in secretarial duties in an hour. Here, the role of opportunity cost is crucial.



To produce $25 in income from secretarial work, the attorney must lose $175 in income by not practicing law. Their opportunity cost of secretarial work is high. They are better off by producing an hour's worth of legal services and hiring the secretary to type and organize. The secretary is much better off typing and organizing for the attorney; their opportunity cost of doing so is low. It’s where their comparative advantage lies.






Comparative advantage is a key insight that trade will still occur even if one country has an absolute advantage in all products.


   Comparative Advantage vs. Competitive Advantage  

Competitive advantage refers to a company, economy, country, or individual's ability to provide a stronger value to consumers as compared with its competitors. It is similar to, but distinct from, comparative advantage.



In order to assume a competitive advantage over others in the same field or area, it's necessary to accomplish at least one of three things: the company should be the low-cost provider of its goods or services, it should offer superior goods or services than its competitors, and/or it should focus on a particular segment of the consumer pool.


   Comparative Advantage in International Trade  

David Ricardo famously showed how England and Portugal both benefit by specializing and trading according to their comparative advantages. In this case, Portugal was able to make wine at a low cost, while England was able to cheaply manufacture cloth. Ricardo predicted that each country would eventually recognize these facts and stop attempting to make the product that was more costly to generate.



Indeed, as time went on, England stopped producing wine, and Portugal stopped manufacturing cloth. Both countries saw that it was to their advantage to stop their efforts at producing these items at home and, instead, to trade with each other in order to acquire them.






Comparative advantage is closely associated with free trade, which is seen as beneficial, whereas tariffs closely correspond to restricted trade and a zero-sum game.



A contemporary example: China’s comparative advantage with the United States is in the form of cheap labor. Chinese workers produce simple consumer goods at a much lower opportunity cost. The United States’ comparative advantage is in specialized, capital-intensive labor. American workers produce sophisticated goods or investment opportunities at lower opportunity costs. Specializing and trading along these lines benefit each.



The theory of comparative advantage helps to explain why protectionism is typically unsuccessful. Adherents to this analytical approach believe that countries engaged in international trade will have already worked toward finding partners with comparative advantages.



If a country removes itself from an international trade agreement, if a government imposes tariffs, and so on, it may produce a local benefit in the form of new jobs and industry. However, this is not a long-term solution to a trade problem. Eventually, that country will be at a disadvantage relative to its neighbors: countries that were already better able to produce these items at a lower opportunity cost.






The classical understanding of comparative advantage does not account for certain disadvantages that come from over-specialization. For example, an agricultural country that focuses on cash crops, and relies on the world market for food, could find itself vulnerable to global price shocks.


   Criticisms of Comparative Advantage  

Why doesn't the world have open trading between countries? When there is free trade, why do some countries remain poor at the expense of others? Perhaps comparative advantage does not work as suggested. There are many reasons this could be the case, but the most influential is something that economists call rent seeking. Rent seeking occurs when one group organizes and lobbies the government to protect its interests.



Say, for example, the producers of American shoes understand and agree with the free-trade argument but they also know that their narrow interests would be negatively impacted by cheaper foreign shoes. Even if laborers would be most productive by switching from making shoes to making computers, nobody in the shoe industry wants to lose their job or see profits decrease in the short run.



This desire leads the shoemakers to lobby for, say, special tax breaks for their products and/or extra duties (or even outright bans) on foreign footwear. Appeals to save American jobs and preserve a time-honored American craft abound, even though, in the long run, American laborers would be made relatively less productive and American consumers relatively poorer by such protectionist tactics.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Comparative Advantage  
  Advantages  

In international trade, the law of comparative advantage is often used to justify globalization, since countries can have higher material outcomes by producing only goods where they have a comparative advantage, and trading those goods with other countries. Countries like China and South Korea have made major productivity gains by specializing their economies in certain export-focused industries, where they had a comparative advantage.



Following comparative advantage increases the efficiency of production by focusing only on those tasks or products that one can achieve more cheaply. Products that are more expensive or time-consuming to make can be purchased from elsewhere. In turn, this will improve a company's (or a country's) overall profit margins, since costs associated with less-efficient production will be eliminated.


  Disadvantages  

On the other hand, over-specialization also has negative effects, especially for developing countries. While free trade allows developed countries to access cheap industrial labor, it also has high human costs due to the exploitation of local workforces.



By offshoring manufacturing to countries with less stringent labor laws, companies can benefit from child labor and coercive employment practices that are illegal in their home countries.



Likewise, an agricultural country that focuses only on certain export crops may find itself suffering from soil depletion and destruction of its natural resources, as well as harm to indigenous peoples. Moreover, there are also strategic disadvantages to over-specialization, since that country would find itself dependent on global food prices.




Pros and Cons of Comparative Advantage

Pros

Higher Efficiency
Improved profit margins
Lessens the need for government protectionism



Cons

Developing countries may be kept at a relative disadvantage
May promote unfair or poor working conditions elsewhere
Can lead to resource depletion
Risk of over-specialization
May incentivize rent-seeking







Who Developed the Law of Comparative Advantage?
The law of comparative advantage is usually attributed to David Ricardo, who described the theory in "On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation," published in 1817. However, the idea of comparative advantage may have originated with Ricardo's mentor and editor, James Mill, who also wrote on the subject.




How Do You Calculate Comparative Advantage?
Comparative advantage is usually measured in opportunity costs, or the value of the goods that could be produced with the same resources. This is then compared with the opportunity costs of another economic actor to produce the same goods.For example, if Factory A can make 100 pairs of shoes with the same resources it takes to make 500 belts, then each pair of shoes has an opportunity cost of five belts. If competitor factory B, can make three belts with the resources it takes to make one pair of shoes, then factory A has a comparative advantage in making belts, and factory B has a comparative advantage in making shoes.




What Is an Example of Comparative Advantage?
An interesting example of comparative advantages often arises for high-powered executives, who may consider hiring an assistant to answer their emails and perform certain secretarial functions. The executive may even better at performing these duties than their assistant—but the time they spend doing secretarial work could be spent more profitably by doing executive work. Likewise, even if the assistant is mediocre at secretarial work, they would likely be even more ill-suited for executive work. Together, they are ultimately more productive if they focus on their comparative advantages.


   The Bottom Line  

Comparative advantage is one of the most important concepts in economics. In classical economics, this idea explains why people, countries, and businesses can experience greater collective benefits through trade and exchange than they can produce alone. However, contemporary economists have also pointed out that these gains can be one-sided, or result in exploitation of the weaker parties.
What Is a Comparative Market Analysis?  

A comparative market analysis (CMA) estimates a home's price based on recently sold, similar properties in the immediate area. Real estate agents and brokers create CMA reports to help sellers set listing prices for their homes and help buyers make competitive offers. In addition, you can perform your own comparative market analysis by researching comparable properties (known as "comps") on real estate listing sites, such as realtor.com.





Key Takeaways

A comparative market analysis (CMA) is an estimate of a home's price used to help sellers set listing prices and help buyers make competitive offers.The analysis considers the location, age, size, construction, style, condition, and other factors for the property and comparables.If you're a buyer or seller interested in a CMA for a specific property, ask a local real estate agent or broker for help, or do your own research by comparing homes online.


   Understanding Comparative Market Analysis  

A comparative market analysis helps sellers choose the best listing prices for their homes. The "best" price is one that's not so low it leaves the seller in more debt or so high the home won't sell. For buyers, a CMA can verify if a home is in the right price range and help pinpoint a competitive offer that will be taken seriously—without going overboard.



A CMA compares a property to other homes similar in location, size, and features. Ideally, a CMA uses recently sold homes from the same subdivision. Of course, finding homes that sold within the last three to six months in the immediate area can be difficult if you're in a low-volume or rural real estate market. In these cases, a formal appraisal might be a better option.



A comparative market analysis is a price estimate, so real estate agents and brokers don't need an appraiser's license to perform a CMA while serving clients.


   What's in a CMA Report?  

When a real estate agent or broker conducts a comparative market analysis, they will create a report that details the findings. There's no standardized CMA report; however, it's important to note that some states have statutes that require specific information be included in CMAs.



That said, a CMA typically includes:



The address of the property and three to five comparables
A description of each property, including elevation, floor plan, and the number of bedrooms and bathrooms
The square footage of each property
The sales price of each comp
Dollar adjustments for any differences
The adjusted sold price per square foot of each comp
A reasonable price range for the property


   CMA vs. Appraisal  

A CMA is completed by a real estate agent, the seller, or the buyer using comparable homes to estimate a price. This estimated price can then be used for negotiating a sales price.



An appraisal requires a state-licensed and certified appraiser. The appraiser compares homes similar in size, layout, and location. Then, they evaluate housing market conditions and generate a report with the home's market value. The appraisal value is used by lenders to establish the amount a buyer is approved for.






The key difference is a CMA establishes a home's price, whereas an appraisal establishes its value—price is what you pay for something while value is what it is worth.


   How to Do a Comparative Market Analysis  

A CMA involves much more than just comparing the prices of recently sold homes in the area. Here's a rundown of the basic steps for creating an accurate CMA:


  1. Evaluate the Neighborhood  

To set the right listing price—or ensure a home you're interested in is a good deal—the CMA should consider the neighborhood's general quality. For example, it should consider the more attractive blocks and address community amenities, nuisances, and HOA rules. Equally important for inclusion are school proximity and curb appeal.


  2. Gather Details About the Property  

If a real estate agent or broker does the CMA, they will review the existing listing (if there is one) and make an in-person visit to gather information about the home. They'll take note of the home's size (particularly the liveable space), age, style, construction, condition, layout, finishes, landscaping, upgrades, and updates. 


  3. Select Comps  

Find three to five comparable homes in the area that have sold recently, as close to the home as possible. Ideally, the comps will be within one mile of the property and in the same school district. Focus on similar houses in terms of square footage, lot size, bedrooms, bathrooms, and type of construction. Pay close attention to when the comparable property sold: The more recent, the better—real estate prices can fluctuate rapidly.






The comps should have the same placement if the home has a unique location—such as overlooking a golf course or the waterfront.


  4. Adjust for Differences  

The next step is to adjust for differences between the home and each comparable property. An experienced real estate agent or broker can assign a price to each of the differences and adjust the price of each comp accordingly. It may seem counter-intuitive, but if the comp has an inferior feature, a positive adjustment is made to the price of the comp, and vice versa.



For example, if a comp has an extra bedroom (a superior feature), it is reasonable to assume that the buyer paid more to get the extra bedroom. In this case, you would deduct an amount from the comp to account for the extra bedroom, thereby allowing an apples-to-apples comparison. Therefore, the price of the target home is never adjusted.


  5. Determine the Price Per Square Foot After Adjustments  

After adjusting for differences, divide the adjusted price of each comp by its square footage to determine the sold price per square foot. Next, add the sold price per square foot of all the comps, and divide by the number of comps to get the average. Finally, multiply this average by the square feet of the property to estimate its price.


   Example of a Comparative Market Analysis  

Many real estate agents and brokers use software to generate comprehensive (and professional-looking) CMA reports. If you plan to create your own, use a spreadsheet to keep track of your research, or try an online home-price tool offered by one of the real estate listing websites. Below is an example of a CMA report.















A sample report.




Is a CMA as Good as an Appraisal?
A comparative market analysis can reveal a property's fair price range; however, it is not considered by lenders or real estate experts to be as good or accurate a method as an appraisal by a licensed and certified appraiser.




What Does a CMA Include?
A CMA generally compares a home's location, size, age, style, materials, and condition against similar homes sold within the last six months to arrive at an estimated price.




What Is the Purpose of a CMA?
A CMA allows sellers to establish a fair asking price; it lets buyers see if the seller is asking a reasonable price for the home.




What Is the Biggest Difference Between a CMA and an Appraisal?
A comparative market analysis can be done by agents, brokers, buyers, or sellers. An appraisal can only be done by a licensed and state-certified appraiser.


   The Bottom Line  

In general, the best comps are the ones that are the most similar to the home, more recently sold, with the fewest adjustments required. Depending on the market, the final price might need to be tweaked slightly. For example, if the market is hot or inventory is low, the price might be slightly higher. Conversely, if there are many similar homes on the market, the price might have to come down to be competitive.
What Are Compensatory Damages?  

Compensatory damages are money awarded to an injured party that compensate for damages, injury, or another incurred loss. Compensatory damages are awarded in civil court cases where loss has occurred as a result of the negligence or unlawful conduct of another party.



To receive compensatory damages, the plaintiff has to prove that a loss occurred and that it was attributable to the defendant. The plaintiff must also be able to quantify the amount of loss in the eyes of the jury or judge.





Key Takeaways

Compensatory damages represent the money awarded to a plaintiff in a lawsuit.This type of compensation is awarded in civil court cases.There are two types of compensatory damages—general and actual.Actual damages are intended to provide funds to only replace what was lost.General compensatory damages awarded are more complex, as these compensatory damages do not represent a monetary expenditure. 



Actual damages are intended to provide the monetary amount necessary to replace what was lost and nothing more. Usually, compensatory damages are awarded in civil court cases in order to compensate for damages, injury, or another incurred loss. As we'll explore further in the article, they are different from punitive and treble damages.






Compensatory damages can be classified into two types: actual and general.


   Examples of Actual Compensatory Damages  

Medical and hospital billsMedical treatmentsRehabilitation expensesPhysical therapyAmbulance expensesMedicine and Prescription drugsNursing home careDomestic servicesMedical equipmentLost wages or lost employment incomeIncreased living expensesProperty replacement or repairTransportation



To be awarded actual compensatory damages, the plaintiff must prove that losses suffered equate to a defined monetary value. 


   Examples of General Compensatory Damages  

General compensatory damages, meanwhile, include estimates of loss not involving actual monetary expenditure. Some courts use the "multiplier method," which calculates general damages by multiplying the sum total of one's actual damages by a number that signifies the seriousness of the injury.



In other jurisdictions, courts will use the "per diem" method, which attaches a dollar value to each day a plaintiff suffers and adds the value of all those days together. In some cases, a court will use a hybrid of these two methods to calculate general compensatory damages. These general compensatory damages include:



Mental anguishDisfigurementFuture medical expensesFuture lost wagesLong-term physical pain and sufferingLoss of consortiumInconvenienceLoss of enjoyment of lifeLoss of opportunity



Compensatory damages are typically awarded in medical malpractice lawsuits, usually for medical bills, hospital bills, rehabilitation expenses, and compensation for lost earnings. Some compensatory damages can be difficult to assess. For example, the value of lost wages will be much higher for a more affluent member of society versus someone who is poor or retired.


   What Is the Difference Between Compensatory Damages and Punitive Damages?  

Compensatory damages differ from punitive damages, which may compensate over and above any loss or damage incurred and are meant to provide an incentive against repeating the act that caused the plaintiff's loss or damages. 



Cases related to compensatory and punitive damages are a major source of debate in the field of health insurance, as proponents of tort reform claim that excessive damages above the actual loss incurred can increase the overall cost of healthcare.



Compensatory damages are intended to compensate the plaintiff of a lawsuit with enough money to cover the loss caused by the defendant.


   What Is the Difference Between Compensatory Damages and Treble Damages?  

Treble damages are also a kind of punitive damage, meant to dissuade others from committing the same offense. Often, treble damages — which indicate that a statute exists to award a plaintiff up to three times actual or compensatory damages — are invoked when a defendant has purposefully or willfully violated a law.




What Is Another Word for Compensatory?
Another word to describe compensatory damages is offsetting, redeeming, or remunerative.




What Is a Compensatory Activity?
As it applies to the law, compensatory activities are usually awarded in the form of monetary payments.




What Are the 3 Types of Damages?
The three types of damages are economic damages, non-economic damages, and punitive damages.




What Are General Compensatory Damages?
General compensatory damages cover all non-monetary damages when referencing an injury claim, such as for pain and suffering.




Do Compensatory Damages Include Emotional Distress?
Compensatory damages can refer to emotional distress, including mental anguish and loss of enjoyment of life.


   The Bottom Line  

To receive compensatory damages, the plaintiff has to prove that a loss occurred. Compensatory damages, as the name implies, hope to "compensate" for any damages, whether physical, emotional, or mental. They are not to be confused with punitive or treble damages.



Correction—July 30, 2023: This article previously stated that treble damages are invoked when a plaintiff has purposely or willfully violated a law. It has been corrected to read that damages are invoked when a defendant has purposely or willfully violated a law.
What Is Competitive Intelligence?  

Competitive intelligence, sometimes referred to as corporate intelligence, refers to the ability to gather, analyze, and use information collected on competitors, customers, and other market factors that contribute to a business's competitive advantage. Competitive intelligence is important because it helps businesses understand their competitive environment and the opportunities and challenges it presents. Businesses analyze the information to create effective and efficient business practices.





Key Takeaways

Competitive intelligence refers to the ability to gather and use information on factors that affect a company's competitive advantage.Organizations analyze collected data and information to develop effective and efficient business practices.Competitive intelligence can be classified as myopic-oriented, tactical intelligence, or long-term focused strategic intelligence.Gathering data and information is more complex than conducting a simple Internet search.


   How Competitive Intelligence Works  

By definition, competitive intelligence assembles actionable information from diverse published and unpublished sources, collected efficiently and ethically. Ideally, a business successfully employs competitive intelligence by cultivating a detailed enough portrait of the marketplace so it may anticipate and respond to challenges and problems before they arise.



Competitive intelligence transcends the simple cliché "know your enemy." Rather, it is a deep dive exercise, where businesses unearth the finer points of competitors’ business plans, including the customers they serve and the marketplaces in which they operate. Competitive intelligence also analyzes how a wide variety of events disrupts rival businesses. It also reveals how distributors and other stakeholders may be impacted, and it telegraphs how new technologies can quickly render invalid every assumption.



Within any organization, competitive intelligence means different things to different people and departments. For example, to a sales representative, it may refer to tactical advice on how best to bid for a lucrative contract. To top management, it may mean cultivating unique marketing insights used to gain market share against a formidable competitor.






The nature of competitive intelligence varies for different companies, depending on the industry, circumstance, and a host of other factors; for example, companies that are impacted by politics and laws might require information about statutory changes that could affect the company's operations.



For any group, the goal of competitive intelligence is to help make better-informed decisions and enhance organizational performance by discovering risks and opportunities before they become readily apparent. In other words, competitive intelligence aims to prevent businesses from being caught off guard, by any oppositional forces.


   Types of Competitive Intelligence  

Competitive intelligence activities can be grouped into two main silos: tactical and strategic. Tactical intelligence is shorter-term and seeks to provide input into issues such as capturing market share or increasing revenues. Strategic intelligence focuses on longer-term issues, such as key risks and opportunities facing the enterprise.



In either case, competitive intelligence differs from corporate or industrial espionage, which relies on illegal and unethical methods to gain an unfair competitive advantage.


   Special Considerations  

While most companies can find substantial information about their competitors online, competitive intelligence goes beyond grabbing such easily accessible, low-hanging fruit. Only a small portion of competitive intelligence involves trawling the Internet for information.



A typical competitive intelligence study includes information and analysis from various disparate sources, including the news media, customer and competitor interviews, industry experts, trade shows and conferences, government records, and public filings. But these publicly accessible information sources are mere starting points. Competitive intelligence also encompasses investigating the full breadth of a company's stakeholders, key distributors, and suppliers, as well as customers and competitors.



For proof of the growing importance of competitive intelligence, look no further than the creation of the Society of Competitive Intelligence Professionals (SCIP), founded in the US in 1986. This global nonprofit group comprises a membership community of business experts across industry, academia, and government, who regularly congress build out intelligence infrastructure, share research decision-support tools, and advance collective analytical capabilities. This group, renamed “Strategic and Competitive Intelligence Professionals” in 2010, holds several national and international conferences and summits each year.
What Is a Competitive Advantage?  

Competitive advantage refers to factors that allow a company to produce goods or services better or more cheaply than its rivals. These factors allow the productive entity to generate more sales or superior margins compared to its market rivals. Competitive advantages are attributed to a variety of factors including cost structure, branding, the quality of product offerings, the distribution network, intellectual property, and customer service.





Key Takeaways

Competitive advantage is what makes an entity's products or services more desirable to customers than that of any other rival.Competitive advantages can be broken down into comparative advantages and differential advantages.Comparative advantage is a company's ability to produce something more efficiently than a rival, which leads to greater profit margins.A differential advantage is when a company's products are seen as both unique and of higher quality, relative to those of a competitor.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Competitive Advantage  

Competitive advantages generate greater value for a firm and its shareholders because of certain strengths or conditions. The more sustainable the competitive advantage, the more difficult it is for competitors to neutralize the advantage. The two main types of competitive advantages are comparative advantage and differential advantage.



A comparative advantage is when a firm can produce products more efficiently and at a lower cost than its competitors.



A differential advantage is when a firm's products or services differ from its competitors' offerings and are seen as superior. Advanced technology, patent-protected products or processes, superior personnel, and strong brand identity are all drivers of differential advantage. These factors support wide margins and large market shares.



For example, Apple is famous for creating innovative products, such as the iPhone, and supporting its market leadership with savvy marketing campaigns to build an elite brand. Another example is major drug companies. They can market branded drugs at high price points because they are protected by patents.






The term "competitive advantage" traditionally refers to the business world, but can also be applied to a country, organization, or even a person who is competing for something.


   How To Build a Competitive Advantage  

To build a competitive advantage, a company can use one of three main methods:



Cost: Provide offerings at the lowest priceDifferentiation: Provide offerings that are superior in quality, service, or featuresSpecialization: Provide offerings narrowly tailored to a focused market



Competing on price can be effective, but if you slash prices too much you risk decreasing profit margins to an untenable level. Many firms opt instead to differentiate themselves in other ways, which helps preserve or expand their profit margin.


   Benefits of a Competitive Advantage  

When a company creates a durable competitive advantage, it sets itself apart from the competition and provides value to customers as well as stakeholders. By producing a desirable product or service that is better or more cost-effective than its competitors,' the company can make more sales, generate more revenue, and enjoy greater profits.


   Strategies to Build a Competitive Advantage  

To build a competitive advantage, a company must know what sets it apart from its competitors and then focus its message, service, and products with that difference in mind. Here are several strategies companies use to build a competitive advantage:



Research the market: Market research helps a company identify and define its target market, which can guide it in developing the most effective advantage.Identify strengths: A company can find its unique strengths, especially relative to competitors, by reviewing products, services, features, positioning, and branding.Evaluate finances: Companies can take a close look at their financial performance to spot profit centers and areas of stability, using financial statements and ratios.Review operations: How efficient is a company's operations? Where is it effective, and where is there room for improvement? Consider customer service as well as production and supply chain management.Consider human resources: The talent a company can attract as employees and leadership can make an important difference in the success of the business. Evaluating company culture, hiring, and staffing practices can help.


   Competitive Advantage vs. Comparative Advantage  

A firm's ability to produce a good or service more efficiently than its competitors, which leads to greater profit margins, creates a comparative advantage. Rational consumers will choose the cheaper of any two perfect substitutes offered. For example, a car owner will buy gasoline from a gas station that is 5 cents cheaper than other stations in the area. For imperfect substitutes, like Pepsi versus Coke, higher margins for the lowest-cost producers can eventually bring superior returns.



Economies of scale, efficient internal systems, and geographic location can also create a comparative advantage.






Comparative advantage does not imply a better product or service. It only shows the firm can offer a product or service of the same value at a lower price.



For example, a firm that manufactures a product in China may have lower labor costs than a company that manufactures in the U.S., so it can offer an equal product at a lower price. In the context of international trade economics, opportunity cost determines comparative advantages. 



Amazon (AMZN) is an example of a company focused on building and maintaining a comparative advantage. The e-commerce platform has a level of scale and efficiency that is difficult for retail competitors to replicate, allowing it to rise to prominence largely through price competition.




How Do I Know If a Company Has a Competitive Advantage?
If a business can increase its market share through increased efficiency or productivity, it would have a competitive advantage over its competitors.




How Can a Company Increase Its Competitive Advantage?
Lasting competitive advantages tend to be things competitors cannot easily replicate or imitate. Warren Buffet calls sustainable competitive advantages economic moats, which businesses can figuratively dig around themselves to entrench competitive advantages. This can include strengthening one's brand, raising barriers to new entrants (such as through regulations), and the defense of intellectual property.




Why Do Larger Companies Often Have Competitive Advantages?
Competitive advantages that accrue from economies of scale typically refer to supply-side advantages, such as the purchasing power of a large restaurant or retail chain. But advantages of scale also exist on the demand side—they are commonly referred to as network effects. This happens when a service becomes more valuable to all of its users as the service adds more users. The result can often be a winner-take-all dynamic in the industry.




How Is Competitive Advantage Different From Comparative Advantage?
Comparative advantage mostly refers to international trade. It posits that a country should focus on what it can produce and export relatively the cheapest—thus if one country has a competitive advantage in producing both products A & B, it should only produce product A if it can do it better than B and import B from some other country.


   The Bottom Line  

A company's competitive advantage is the way it excels compared to its rivals. This advantage may be through cost leadership, differentiation, or focus. Identifying a company's competitive advantage helps show how it is positioned to be more successful than its competitors, creating more revenue and generating greater profits.

What Is a Compliance Officer?  

A compliance officer is an employee of a company that ensures the firm is in compliance with its outside regulatory and legal requirements as well as internal policies and bylaws. The chief compliance officer is usually the head of a firm's compliance department.



Compliance officers have a duty to their employer to work with management and staff to identify and manage regulatory risk. Their objective is to ensure that an organization has internal controls that adequately measure and manage the risks it faces. Compliance officers provide an in-house service that effectively supports business areas in their duty to comply with relevant laws and regulations and internal procedures. The compliance officer is usually the company’s general counsel, but not always.





Key Takeaways

A compliance officer is an individual who ensures that a company complies with its outside regulatory and legal requirements as well as internal policies and bylaws. Compliance officers have a duty to their employer to work with management and staff to identify and manage regulatory risk. In the event of a regulatory breach, it is important for the compliance officer to have appropriate disciplinary measures in place to avoid a future recurrence.


   How Compliance Officers Work  

A compliance officer is an employee of a company who helps that company maintain policies and procedures to remain within an industry's regulatory framework. The duties of a compliance officer may include reviewing and setting standards for outside communications by requiring disclaimers in emails or examining facilities to ensure they are accessible and safe. Compliance officers may also design or update internal policies to mitigate the risk of the company breaking laws and regulations and lead internal audits of procedures.



A compliance officer must have a thorough knowledge of the company and an awareness of where possible regulatory breaches may occur. It is essential that the compliance officer effectively communicate the company’s key ethical principles and compliance regulations. Compliance officers organize regular training sessions for employees to communicate key regulatory changes and updates. This is particularly important in a heightened regulatory environment where change is constant. The compliance officer must work with business units and management to ensure appropriate contingency plans are in place that set guidelines on how to respond to a possible compliance breach.



In the event of a regulatory breach, it is important for the compliance officer to have appropriate disciplinary measures in place to avoid a future recurrence. It is the compliance officer’s duty to ensure continual monitoring and review of compliance procedures to help identify possible areas where improvements could be made.



Compliance officers are expected to provide an objective view of company policies. Influence by other employees, including management and executives, to overlook infractions may result in significant fines or sanctions that may lead to financial loss or even business closure. Larger companies typically have a chief compliance officer (CCO) to direct compliance-related activities.






Compliance officers play an active role in managing a firm's risk and reducing financial crime.


   Becoming a Compliance Officer  

A compliance officer requires a unique skill set to ensure a company’s operations fully comply with regulations and procedures. It is critical that a compliance officer possess high ethical standards and honesty as this individual is responsible for ensuring a company adheres to required regulations.



Compliance officers continually review the work of others, and so it is essential they have polished people skills and work well with colleagues. Compliance officers need to be reliable, showing commitment and unity in relation to a company’s regulations and procedures, and it is crucial that they demonstrate this to colleagues, leading by example. Compliance officers must also have strong attention to detail. They need the ability to notice actions that may result in liability.



A position as a compliance officer or manager is not typically deemed as entry-level. Bachelor's degrees are normally a minimum requirement, and some employers may look for advanced degrees, like a law degree or a master's degree in business administration (MBA), especially to qualify for a higher-level position.



Compliance officers in other sectors have the opportunity to complete the Certified Compliance and Ethics Professional Program (CCEP) through the Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE). The CCEP requires participation in an intensive prerequisite course along with the successful passing of an exam. Similar designation and certification courses are available through the Ethics and Compliance Officer Association (ECOA).



According to BLS's May 2020 statistics, annual salaries for compliance professions range from $40,160 to $115,220, and hourly wages from $19.31 to $55.39. A lower-income earner in a compliance officer position is more likely to have minimal past work experience or hold a degree not directly related to the industry in which they work.



A worker with a higher income often has substantial tenure in his position or has earned advanced degrees in business, accounting, law or finance. Of course, those who work at a large institution are more likely to have access to fringe benefits that increase the total compensation package, with chief compliance officers possessing those on a par with other C-Suite executives.
What Is the Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)?  

The compound annual growth rate (CAGR) is the rate of return (RoR) that would be required for an investment to grow from its beginning balance to its ending balance, assuming the profits were reinvested at the end of each period of the investment’s life span.





Key Takeaways

The compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) is one of the most accurate ways to calculate and determine returns for anything that can rise or fall in value over time.It measures a smoothed rate of return.Investors can compare the CAGR of two or more alternatives to evaluate how well one stock performed against other stocks in a peer group or a market index.CAGR is thus a good way to evaluate how different investments have performed over time, or against a benchmark.The CAGR does not, however, reflect investment risk.


   How to Calculate Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)  
















C


A


G


R


=



(




(




E


V




B


V




)




1


n




−


1


)



×


100
















where:
















E


V


=


Ending value
















B


V


=


Beginning value
















n


=


Number of years







\begin{aligned}&CAGR=\left(\left(\frac{EV}{BV}\right)^{\frac1n}-1\right)\times100\\&\textbf{where:}\\&EV=\text{Ending value}\\&BV=\text{Beginning value}\\&n=\text{Number of years}\end{aligned}


​CAGR=((BVEV​)n1​−1)×100where:EV=Ending valueBV=Beginning valuen=Number of years​



To calculate the CAGR of an investment:



Divide the value of an investment at the end of the period by its value at the beginning of that period.Raise the result to an exponent of one divided by the number of years.Subtract one from the subsequent result.Multiply by 100 to convert the answer into a percentage.


   What the CAGR Can Tell You  

The compound annual growth rate isn’t a true return rate, but rather a representational figure. It is essentially a number that describes the rate at which an investment would have grown if it had grown at the same rate every year and the profits were reinvested at the end of each year.



In reality, this sort of performance is unlikely. However, the CAGR can be used to smooth returns so that they may be more easily understood compared to alternative methods.






   Example of How to Use CAGR  

Imagine you invested $10,000 in a portfolio with the returns outlined below:



From Jan. 1, 2018, to Jan. 1, 2019, your portfolio grew to $13,000 (or 30% in year one).On Jan. 1, 2020, the portfolio was $14,000 (or 7.69% from January 2019 to January 2020).On Jan. 1, 2021, the portfolio ended with $19,000 (or 35.71% from January 2020 to January 2021).



We can see that on an annual basis, the year-to-year growth rates of the investment portfolio were quite different as shown in the parentheses.



On the other hand, the compound annual growth rate smooths the investment’s performance and ignores the fact that 2018 and 2020 were vastly different from 2019. The CAGR over that period was 23.86% and can be calculated as follows:








C


A


G


R


=




(




$


19


,


000




$


10


,


000




)




1


3




−


1


×


100


=


23.86


%



CAGR=\left(\frac{\$19,000}{\$10,000}\right )^{\frac{1}{3}}-1\times100=23.86\%


CAGR=($10,000$19,000​)31​−1×100=23.86%



The CAGR of 23.86% over the three-year investment period can help an investor compare alternatives for their capital or make forecasts of future values. For example, imagine an investor is comparing the performance of two uncorrelated investments.



In any given year during the period, one investment may be rising while the other falls. This could be the case when comparing high-yield bonds to stocks, or a real estate investment to emerging markets. Using CAGR would smooth the annual return over the period so the two alternatives would be easier to compare.



As another example, let’s say an investor bought 55 shares of Amazon.com (AMZN) stock in December 2017 at $1,180 per share, for a total investment of $64,900. After three years, in December 2020, the stock has risen to $3,200 per share, and the investor’s investment is now worth $176,000. What is the CAGR?



Using the CAGR formula, we know that we need the:



Ending Balance: $176,000Beginning Balance: $64,900Number of Years: 3



So to calculate the CAGR for this simple example, we would enter that data into the formula as follows: [($176,000 / $64,900) ^ (1/3)] - 1 = 39.5%.


   Additional CAGR Uses  

The CAGR can be used to calculate the average growth of a single investment. As we saw in our example above, due to market volatility, the year-to-year growth of an investment will likely appear erratic and uneven.



For example, an investment may increase in value by 8% in one year, decrease in value by -2% the following year, and increase in value by 5% in the next. CAGR helps smooth returns when growth rates are expected to be volatile and inconsistent.


  Comparing Investments  

The CAGR can be used to compare different investment types with one another. For example, suppose that in 2015, an investor placed $10,000 into an account for five years with a fixed annual interest rate of 1% and another $10,000 into a stock mutual fund. The rate of return in the stock fund will be uneven over the next few years, so a comparison between the two investments would be difficult.



Assume that at the end of the five-year period, the savings account’s balance is $10,510.10 and, although the other investment has grown unevenly, the ending balance in the stock fund was $15,348.52. Using the CAGR to compare the two investments can help an investor understand the difference in returns:








Savings Account CAGR


=




(




$


10


,


510.10




$


10


,


000




)




1


5




−


1


×


100


=


1.00


%



\text{Savings Account CAGR} =\, \left ( \frac{\$ 10,510.10}{\$ 10,000} \right )^{\frac{1}{5}}-1 \times 100= 1.00\%


Savings Account CAGR=($10,000$10,510.10​)51​−1×100=1.00%



And:








Stock fund CAGR


=




(




$


15


,


348.52




$


10


,


000




)




1


5




−


1


×


100


=


8.95


%



\text{Stock fund CAGR} =\, \left ( \frac{\$ 15,348.52}{\$ 10,000} \right )^{\frac{1}{5}}-1 \times 100= 8.95\%


Stock fund CAGR=($10,000$15,348.52​)51​−1×100=8.95%



On the surface, the stock fund may look like a better investment, with nearly nine times the return of the savings account. On the other hand, one of the drawbacks of the CAGR is that by smoothing the returns, The CAGR cannot tell an investor how volatile or risky the stock fund was.


  Track Performance  

The CAGR can also be used to track the performance of various business measures of one or multiple companies alongside one another. For example, over a five-year period, Big-Sale Stores’ market share CAGR was 1.82%, but its customer satisfaction CAGR over the same period was -0.58%. In this way, comparing the CAGRs of measures within a company reveals strengths and weaknesses.


  Detect Weaknesses and Strengths  

Comparing the CAGRs of business activities across similar companies will help evaluate competitive weaknesses and strengths. For example, Big-Sale’s customer satisfaction CAGR might not seem so low compared with SuperFast Cable’s customer satisfaction CAGR of -6.31% during the same period.


   How Investors Use the CAGR  

Understanding the formula used to calculate CAGR is an introduction to many other ways that investors evaluate past returns or estimate future profits. The formula can be manipulated algebraically into a formula to find the present value or future value of money, or to calculate a hurdle rate of return.



For example, imagine that an investor knows that they need $50,000 for a child’s college education in 18 years and they have $15,000 to invest today. How much does the average rate of return need to be to reach that objective? The CAGR calculation can be used to find the answer to this question as follows:








Required Return


=




(




$


50


,


000




$


15


,


000




)




1


18




−


1


×


100


=


6.90


%



\text{Required Return} =\, \left ( \frac{\$ 50,000}{\$ 15,000} \right )^{\frac{1}{18}}-1 \times 100= 6.90\%


Required Return=($15,000$50,000​)181​−1×100=6.90%



This version of the CAGR formula is just a rearranged present value and future value equation. For example, if an investor knew that they needed $50,000 and they felt it was reasonable to expect an 8% annual return on their investment, they could use this formula to find out how much they needed to invest to meet their goal.


   Modifying the CAGR Formula  

An investment is rarely made on the first day of the year and then sold on the last day of the year. Imagine an investor who wants to evaluate the CAGR of a $10,000 investment that was entered on June 1, 2013, and sold for $16,897.14 on Sept. 9, 2018.



Before the CAGR calculation can be performed, the investor will need to know the fractional remainder of the holding period. They held the position for 213 days in 2013, a full year in 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2017, and 251 days in 2018. This investment was held for 5.271 years, which is calculated by the following:



2013 = 213 days2014 = 3652015 = 3652016 = 3652017 = 3652018 = 251



The total number of days that the investment was held was 1,924 days. To calculate the number of years, divide the total number of days by 365 (1,924/365), which equals 5.271 years.



The total number of years that the investment was held can be placed in the denominator of the exponent inside CAGR’s formula as follows:








Investment CAGR


=




(




$


16


,


897.14




$


10


,


000




)




1


5.271




−


1


×


100


=


10.46


%



\text{Investment CAGR} =\, \left ( \frac{\$ 16,897.14}{\$ 10,000} \right )^{\frac{1}{5.271}}-1 \times 100= 10.46\%


Investment CAGR=($10,000$16,897.14​)5.2711​−1×100=10.46%


   Smooth Rate of Growth Limitation  

The most important limitation of the CAGR is that because it calculates a smoothed rate of growth over a period, it ignores volatility and implies that the growth during that time was steady. Returns on investments are uneven over time, except for bonds that are held to maturity, deposits, and similar investments.



Also, the CAGR does not account for when an investor adds funds to a portfolio or withdraws funds from the portfolio over the period being measured.



For example, if an investor had a portfolio for five years and injected funds into the portfolio during the five-year period, then the CAGR would be inflated. The CAGR would calculate the rate of return based on the beginning and ending balances over the five years, and would essentially count the deposited funds as part of the annual growth rate, which would be inaccurate.


   Other CAGR Limitations  

Besides the smoothed rate of growth, the CAGR has other limitations. A second limitation when assessing investments is that no matter how steady the growth of a company or investment has been in the past, investors cannot assume that the rate will remain the same in the future. The shorter the time frame used in the analysis, the less likely it will be for the realized CAGR to meet the expected CAGR when relying on historical results.



A third limitation of the CAGR is a limitation of representation. Say that an investment fund was worth $100,000 in 2016, $71,000 in 2017, $44,000 in 2018, $81,000 in 2019, and $126,000 in 2020. If the fund managers represented in 2021 that their CAGR was a whopping 42.01% over the past three years, they would be technically correct. They would, however, be omitting some very important information about the fund’s history, including the fact that the fund’s CAGR over the past five years was a modest 4.73%.


   CAGR vs. IRR  

The CAGR measures the return on an investment over a certain period of time. The internal rate of return (IRR) also measures investment performance but is more flexible than the CAGR.



The most important distinction is that the CAGR is straightforward enough that it can be calculated by hand. In contrast, more complicated investments and projects, or those that have many different cash inflows and outflows, are best evaluated using IRR. To back into the IRR, a financial calculator, Excel, or portfolio accounting system is ideal.



Those interested in learning more about CAGR and other financial topics may want to consider enrolling in one of the best investing courses currently available.




What Is an Example of Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)?
The CAGR is a measurement used by investors to calculate the rate at which a quantity grew over time. The word “compound” denotes the fact that the CAGR takes into account the effects of compounding, or reinvestment, over time. For example, suppose you have a company with revenue that grew from $3 million to $30 million over a span of 10 years. In that scenario, the CAGR would be approximately 25.89%.




What Is Considered a Good CAGR?
What counts as a good CAGR will depend on the context. But generally speaking, investors will evaluate this by thinking about their opportunity cost as well as the riskiness of the investment. For example, if a company grew by 25% in an industry with an average CAGR closer to 30%, then its results might seem lackluster by comparison. But if the industry-wide growth rates were lower, such as 10% or 15%, then its CAGR might be very impressive.In general, a higher CAGR is better.




What Is the Difference Between the CAGR and a Growth Rate?
The main difference between the CAGR and a growth rate is that the CAGR assumes the growth rate was repeated, or “compounded,” each year, whereas a traditional growth rate does not. Many investors prefer the CAGR because it smooths out the volatile nature of year-by-year growth rates. For instance, even a highly profitable and successful company will likely have several years of poor performance during its life. These bad years could have a large effect on individual years’ growth rates but would have a relatively small impact on the company’s CAGR.




Can the CAGR Be Negative?
Yes. A negative CAGR would indicate losses over time rather than gains.




What Is Risk-Adjusted CAGR?
To compare the performance and risk characteristics among various investment alternatives, investors can use a risk-adjusted CAGR. A simple method for calculating a risk-adjusted CAGR is to multiply the CAGR by one minus the investment’s standard deviation. If the standard deviation (i.e., its risk) is zero, then the risk-adjusted CAGR is unaffected. The larger the standard deviation, the lower the risk-adjusted CAGR will be.
What Is Compound Interest?  

Compound interest is the interest on savings calculated on both the initial principal and the accumulated interest from previous periods.



"Interest on interest," or the power of compound interest, will make a sum grow faster than simple interest, which is calculated only on the principal amount. Compounding multiplies money at an accelerated rate. The greater the number of compounding periods, the greater the compound interest will be. Compound interest can help your investments but make debt more difficult.





Key Takeaways

Compounding multiplies money at an accelerated rate.Compound interest is interest calculated on the initial principal, which also includes all of the accumulated interest from previous periods.Generating "interest on interest" is known as the power of compound interest.Interest can be compounded on any given frequency schedule, such as continuous, daily, or annually.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   How Compound Interest Works  

Compound interest is calculated by multiplying the initial principal amount by one plus the annual interest rate raised to the number of compound periods minus one. The total initial principal or amount of the loan is then subtracted from the resulting value.












Katie Kerpel {Copyright} Investopedia, 2019.



The formula for calculating compound interest is:



Compound interest = total amount of principal and interest in future (or future value) minus principal amount at present (or present value)



= [P (1 + i)n] – P



= P [(1 + i)n – 1]



Where:



P = principal



i = annual interest rate



n = number of compounding periods



As an example, take a 3-year loan of $10,000 at an interest rate of 5%, compounding annually. What would be the amount of interest? In this case, it would be:



$10,000 [(1 + 0.05)3 – 1] = $10,000 [1.157625 – 1] = $1,576.25






The Rule of 72 is another way to estimate compound interest. If you divide 72 by your rate of return, you find out how long it will take your money will double in value. For example, if you have $100 that was earning a 4% return, it would grow to $200 in 18 years (72 / 4 = 18).


   The Power of Compound Interest  

Because compound interest includes interest accumulated in previous periods, it grows at an ever-accelerating rate. In the example above, though the total interest payable over the loan's three years is $1,576.25, the interest amount is not the same as it would be with simple interest. The interest payable at the end of each year is shown in the table below.







Compound interest can significantly boost investment returns over the long term. Over 10 years, a $100,000 deposit receiving 5% simple annual interest would earn $50,000 in total interest. But if the same deposit had a monthly compound interest rate of 5%, interest would add up to about $64,700.





Tip

Order your copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine for more wealth-building advice.


  Compounding Interest Periods  

Compounding periods are the time intervals between when interest is added to the account. Interest can be compounded annually, semi-annually, quarterly, monthly, daily, continuously, or on any other basis.



Interest on an account may accrue daily but only credited monthly. Only when the interest is credited, or added to the existing balance, does the interest begin to earn additional interest. Standard compounding frequency schedules are usually applied to financial instruments:



Savings accounts and money market accounts: The commonly used compounding schedule for savings accounts at banks is daily.Certificate of deposit (CD): Typical CD compounding frequency schedules are daily or monthly.Series I bonds: Interest is compounded semiannually, or every six months.Loans: For many loans, interest is often compounded monthly. However, compounding interest may be called something different, such as "interest capitalization" for student loans.Credit cards: Card interest is often compounded daily, which can add up fast.






Some banks also offer continuously compounding interest, which adds interest to the principal as regularly as possible. For practical purposes, it doesn’t accrue that much more than daily compounding interest unless you want to put money in and take it out on the same day.


  Compounding Period Frequency  

More frequent compounding of interest is beneficial to the investor or creditor. For a borrower, the opposite is true. The basic rule is that the higher the number of compounding periods, the greater the amount of compound interest.



The following table demonstrates the difference that the number of compounding periods can make for a $10,000 loan with an annual 10% interest rate over a 10-year period.






   Compound Interest: Start Saving Early  

Young people often neglect to save for retirement. They may have other expenses they feel more urgent with more time to save. Yet the earlier you start saving, the more compounding interest can work in your favor, even with relatively small amounts. Saving small amounts can pay off massively down the road—far more than saving higher amounts later in life. Here's one example of its effect.



Let’s say you start saving $100 a month at age 20. You earn an average of 4% annually, compounded monthly across 40 years. You earn $151,550 by age 65. Your principal investment was just $54,100.



Your twin doesn’t begin investing until age 50. They invest $5,000 initially, then $500 monthly for 15 years, also averaging a monthly compounded 4% return. By age 65, your twin has only earned $132,147, with a principal investment of $95,000.



When you hit your 45-year savings mark—and your twin would have saved for 15 years—your twin will have less, although they would have invested roughly twice your principal investment.



The same logic applies to opening an individual retirement account (IRA) and taking advantage of an employer-sponsored retirement account, such as a 401(k) or 403(b) plan. Start early and be consistent with your payments to get the maximum power of compounding.


   Pros and Cons of Compounding  



Pros

Can help build wealth long-term in savings and investments
Mitigates wealth erosion risks
Compounding can work for you when making loan repayments



Cons

Works against consumers making minimum payments on high-interest loans or credit card debts
Returns are taxable
Challenging to calculate





  Advantages Explained  

Can help build wealth long-term in savings and investments: Compounding works to your advantage when it comes to your investments and savings, as your returns earn returns.Mitigates wealth erosion risks: Compounding interest's exponential growth is also important in mitigating wealth-eroding factors, such as increases in the cost of living, or inflation that reduces purchasing power.Compounding can work for you when making loan repayments: When you make more than your minimum payment, you can leverage the power of compounding to save on total interest.


  Disadvantages Explained  

Works against consumers making minimum payments on high-interest loans or credit card debts: If you only pay the minimum, your balance could continue growing exponentially as a result of compounding interest. This is how people get trapped in a "debt cycle."
Returns are taxable: Earnings from compound interest are taxable at your tax bracket unless the money is in a tax-sheltered account.
Challenging to calculate: Calculating simple interest is fairly easy, but calculating compounding interest requires more math. It may be easiest to use an online calculator.


   Compound Interest Investments  

An investor opting for a brokerage account's dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) is essentially using the power of compounding in their investments.






Assets that have dividends, like dividend stocks or mutual funds, offer a one way for investors to take advantage of compound interest. Reinvested dividends are used to purchase more shares of the asset. Then, more interest can grow on a larger investment.



Investors can also get compounding interest with the purchase of a zero-coupon bond. Traditional bond issues provide investors with periodic interest payments based on the original terms of the bond issue. Because these payments are paid out in check form, the interest does not compound.



Zero-coupon bonds do not send interest checks to investors. Instead, this type of bond is purchased at a discount to its original value and grows over time. Zero-coupon-bond issuers use the power of compounding to increase the value of the bond so it reaches its full price at maturity.


   Tools for Calculating Compound Interest  

You can use several tools to help you calculate compound interest, including Microsoft Excel, which you can use in three different ways:


  Approach One: Multiplication  

The first way to calculate compound interest is to multiply each year’s new balance by the interest rate.



Suppose you deposit $1,000 into a savings account with a 5% interest rate that compounds annually, and you want to calculate the balance in five years.



In Microsoft Excel, enter “Year” into cell A1 and “Balance” into cell B1. Enter years 0 to 5 into cells A2 through A7. The balance for year 0 is $1,000, so you would enter “1000” into cell B2. Next, enter “=B2*1.05” into cell B3. Then enter “=B3*1.05” into cell B4 and continue to do this until you get to cell B7. In cell B7, the calculation is “=B6*1.05”. Finally, the calculated value in cell B7—$1,276.28—is the balance in your savings account after five years. To find the compound interest value, subtract $1,000 from $1,276.28; this gives you a value of $276.28.


  Approach Two: Fixed Formula  

The second way to calculate compound interest is to use a fixed formula.



The compound interest formula is ((P*(1+i)^n) - P), where P is the principal, i is the annual interest rate, and n is the number of periods.



Using the same financial information as in Approach One, enter “Principal value” into cell A1 and “1000” into cell B1.Next, enter “Interest rate” into cell A2 and “.05” into cell B2.Enter “Compound periods” into cell A3 and “5” into cell B3.Now you can calculate the compound interest in cell B4 by entering “=(B1*(1+B2)^B3)-B1”, which gives you $276.28.


  Approach Three: Macro Function  

A third way to calculate compound interest is to create a macro function.



First start the Visual Basic Editor, which is located in the developer tab. Click the Insert menu, and click on “Module.” Then type “Function Compound_Interest (P As Double, I As Double, N As Double) As Double” in the first line. On the second line, hit the tab key and type in “Compound_Interest = (P*(1+i)^n) - P.” On the third line of the module, enter “End Function.” You have created a function macro to calculate the compound interest rate. Continuing from the same Excel worksheet above, enter “Compound interest” into cell A6 and enter “=Compound_Interest(B1, B2, B3).” This gives you a value of $276.28, which is consistent with the first two values.


   Online Calculators for Compound Interest  

You can also use several free compound interest calculators online.



Investor.gov Compound Interest Calculator: This U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), site offers a free online compound interest calculator. It is fairly simple and also allows inputs of monthly additional deposits to the principal, which helps calculate earnings when additional monthly savings are being deposited.
TheCalculatorSite.com Compound Interest Calculator: This calculator allows calculations for five different currencies, factoring in monthly deposits or withdrawals, and automatic calculation of inflation-adjusted increase options for monthly deposits or withdrawals.
Council for Economic Education Compound Interest Calculator: This calculator is geared toward students and demonstrates the long-term power of compounding. Enter your age, annual interest rate, initial investment, and monthly savings. The resulting graph shows your money growing over time and the difference between total earnings and principal.




How Can I Tell if Interest Is Compounded?
The Truth in Lending Act (TILA) requires that lenders disclose loan terms to potential borrowers, including the total dollar amount of interest to be repaid over the life of the loan and whether interest accrues simply or is compounded.




What Is a Simple Definition of Compound Interest?
Compound interest simply means you're earning interest on both your original saved money and any interest you earn on that original amount. Although the term "compound interest" includes the word interest, the concept applies beyond interest-bearing bank accounts and loans, including investments such as mutual funds.




Who Benefits From Compound Interest?
Compound interest benefits investors across the spectrum. Banks benefit from compound interest lending money and reinvesting interest received into additional loans. Depositors benefit from compound interest receiving interest on their bank accounts, bonds, or other investments.


   The Bottom Line  

The long-term effect of compound interest on savings and investments is indeed powerful. Because it grows your money much faster than simple interest, compound interest is a central factor in increasing wealth. It also mitigates a rising cost of living caused by inflation.



For young people, compound interest offers a chance to take advantage of the time value of money. Remember when choosing your investments that the number of compounding periods is just as important as the interest rate.
What Is Compounding?  

Compounding is the process in which an asset’s earnings, from either capital gains or interest, are reinvested to generate additional earnings over time. This growth, calculated using exponential functions, occurs because the investment will generate earnings from both its initial principal and the accumulated earnings from preceding periods.



Compounding, therefore, differs from linear growth, where only the principal earns interest each period.





Key Takeaways

Compounding is the process whereby interest is credited to an existing principal amount as well as to interest already paid.Compounding thus can be construed as interest on interest—the effect of which is to magnify returns to interest over time, the so-called “miracle of compounding.”When banks or financial institutions credit compound interest, they will use a compounding period such as annual, monthly, or daily.Compounding may occur on investment in which savings grow more quickly or on debt where the amount owed may grow even if payments are being made. Compounding naturally occurs in savings accounts; some investments that yield dividends may also benefit from compounding.



Spanish Translation of Compounding












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding Compounding  

Compounding typically refers to the increasing value of an asset due to the interest earned on both a principal and accumulated interest. This phenomenon, which is a direct realization of the time value of money (TMV) concept, is also known as compound interest. 



Compounding is crucial in finance, and the gains attributable to its effects are the motivation behind many investing strategies. For example, many corporations offer dividend reinvestment plans (DRIPs) that allow investors to reinvest their cash dividends to purchase additional shares of stock. Reinvesting in more of these dividend-paying shares compounds investor returns because the increased number of shares will consistently increase future income from dividend payouts, assuming steady dividends.



Investing in dividend growth stocks on top of reinvesting dividends adds another layer of compounding to this strategy that some investors refer to as double compounding. In this case, not only are dividends being reinvested to buy more shares, but these dividend growth stocks are also increasing their per-share payouts.






   Formula for Compound Interest  

The formula for the future value (FV) of a current asset relies on the concept of compound interest. It takes into account the present value of an asset, the annual interest rate, the frequency of compounding (or the number of compounding periods) per year, and the total number of years. The generalized formula for compound interest is:


















F


V


=


P


V


×


(


1


+



i


n




)



n


t


















where:
















F


V


=


Future value
















P


V


=


Present value
















i


=


Annual interest rate
















n


=


Number of compounding periods per time period
















t


=


The time period







\begin{aligned}&FV = PV \times \Big (1 + \frac{ i }{ n } \Big ) ^ {nt} \\&\textbf{where:} \\&FV = \text{Future value} \\&PV = \text{Present value} \\&i = \text{Annual interest rate} \\&n = \text{Number of compounding periods per time period} \\&t = \text{The time period} \\\end{aligned}


​FV=PV×(1+ni​)ntwhere:FV=Future valuePV=Present valuei=Annual interest raten=Number of compounding periods per time periodt=The time period​



This formula assumes that no additional changes outside of interest are made to the original principal balance.





536,870,912

Curious what 100% daily compounding looks like? One Grain of Rice, the folktale by Demi, is centered around a reward where a single grain of rice is awarded on the first day and the number of grains of rice awarded each day is doubled over 30 days. At the end of the month, over 536 million grains of rice would be awarded on the last day.


   Increased Compounding Periods  

The effects of compounding strengthen as the frequency of compounding increases. Assume a one-year time period. The more compounding periods throughout this one year, the higher the future value of the investment, so naturally, two compounding periods per year are better than one, and four compounding periods per year are better than two.



To illustrate this effect, consider the following example given the above formula. Assume that an investment of $1 million earns 20% per year. The resulting future value, based on a varying number of compounding periods, is:



Annual compounding (n = 1): FV = $1,000,000 × [1 + (20%/1)] (1 x 1) = $1,200,000Semi-annual compounding (n = 2): FV = $1,000,000 × [1 + (20%/2)] (2 x 1) = $1,210,000Quarterly compounding (n = 4): FV = $1,000,000 × [1 + (20%/4)] (4 x 1) = $1,215,506Monthly compounding (n = 12): FV = $1,000,000 × [1 + (20%/12)] (12 x 1) = $1,219,391Weekly compounding (n = 52): FV = $1,000,000 × [1 + (20%/52)] (52 x 1) = $1,220,934Daily compounding (n = 365): FV = $1,000,000 × [1 + (20%/365)] (365 x 1) = $1,221,336



As evident, the future value increases by a smaller margin even as the number of compounding periods per year increases significantly. The frequency of compounding over a set length of time has a limited effect on an investment’s growth. This limit, based on calculus, is known as continuous compounding and can be calculated using the formula:


















F


V


=


P


×



e



r


t


















where:
















e


=


Irrational number 2.7183
















r


=


Interest rate
















t


=


Time







\begin{aligned}&FV=P\times e^{rt}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&e=\text{Irrational number 2.7183}\\&r=\text{Interest rate}\\&t=\text{Time}\end{aligned}


​FV=P×ertwhere:e=Irrational number 2.7183r=Interest ratet=Time​



In the above example, the future value with continuous compounding equals: FV = $1,000,000 × 2.7183 (0.2 x 1) = $1,221,403.






Compounding is an example of "the snowball effect" where a situation of small significance builds upon itself into a larger, more serious state.


   Compounding on Investments and Debt  

Compound interest works on both assets and liabilities. While compounding boosts the value of an asset more rapidly, it can also increase the amount of money owed on a loan, as interest accumulates on the unpaid principal and previous interest charges. Even if you make loan payments, compounding interest may result in the amount of money you owe being greater in future periods.



The concept of compounding is especially problematic for credit card balances. Not only is the interest rate on credit card debt high, the interest charges may be added to the principal balance and incur interest assessments on itself in the future. For this reason, the concept of compounding is not necessarily "good" or "bad". The effects of compounding may work in favor of or against an investor depending on their specific financial situation.


   Example of Compounding  

To illustrate how compounding works, suppose $10,000 is held in an account that pays 5% interest annually. After the first year or compounding period, the total in the account has risen to $10,500, a simple reflection of $500 in interest being added to the $10,000 principal. In year two, the account realizes 5% growth on both the original principal and the $500 of first-year interest, resulting in a second-year gain of $525 and a balance of $11,025.











Example of Compounding




Compounding Period 
Starting Balance
Interest
Ending Balance


1 
$10,000.00
$500.00
$10,500.00


2 
$10,500.00
$525.00
$11,025.00


3 
$11,025.00
$551.25
 $11,576.25


4 
$11,576.25
$578.81 
$12,155.06 


5 
$12,155.06 
$607.75 
$12,762.82 


6 
$12,762.82 
$638.14 
$13,400.96 


7 
$13,400.96 
$670.05 
$14,071.00 


8 
$14,071.00 
$703.55 
$14,774.55 


9 
$14,774.55 
$738.73 
$15,513.28 


10 
$15,513.28 
$775.66 
$16,288.95 



$10,000 Investment Earning 5% Compounded Interest



After 10 years, assuming no withdrawals and a steady 5% interest rate, the account would grow to $16,288.95. Without having added or removed anything from our principal balance except for interest, the impact of compounding has increased the change in balance from $500 in Period 1 to $775.66 in Period 10.



In addition, without having added new investment on our own, our investment has grown $6,288.95 in 10 years. Had the investment only paid simple interest (5% on the original investment only), annual interest would have only been $5,000 ($500 per year for 10 years).




What Is the Rule of 72?
The Rule of 72 is a heuristic used to estimate how long an investment or savings will double in value if there is compound interest (or compounding returns). The rule states that the number of years it will take to double is 72 divided by the interest rate. If the interest rate is 5% with compounding, it would take around 14 years and five months to double.




What Is the Difference Between Simple Interest and Compound Interest?
Simple interest pays interest only on the amount of principal invested or deposited. For instance, if $1,000 is deposited with 5% simple interest, it would earn $50 each year. Compound interest, however, pays “interest on interest,” so in the first year, you would receive $50, but in the second year, you would receive $52.5 ($1,050 × 0.05), and so on.




How Do I Compound My Money?
In addition to compound interest, investors can receive compounding returns by reinvesting dividends. This means taking the cash received from dividend payments to purchase additional shares in the company—which will, themselves, pay out dividends in the future.




Which Type of Average Is Best Suited to Compounding?
There are different types of average (mean) calculations used in finance. When computing the average returns of an investment or savings account that has compounding, it is best to use the geometric average. In finance, this is sometimes known as the time-weighted average return or the compound annual growth rate (CAGR).




What Is the Best Example of Compounding?
High-yield savings accounts are a great example of compounding. Let's say you deposit $1,000 in a saving account. In the first year, you will earn a given amount of interest. If you never spend any money in the account and the interest rate at least stays the same as the year before, the amount of interest you earn in the second year will be higher. That is because savings accounts add interest earned to the cash balance that is eligible to earn interest.


   The Bottom Line  

Once referred to as the either wonder of the world by Albert Einstein, compounding and compound interest play a very important part in shaping the financial success of investors. If you take advantage of compounding, you'll earn more money faster. If you take on compounding debt, you'll be stuck in a growing debt balance longer. By compounding interest, financial balances have the ability to exponential grow faster than straight line interest.
What Is Comprehensive Income?  

Comprehensive income is the variation in the value of a company's net assets from non-owner sources during a specific period. It includes net income and unrealized income. Unrealized income can be unrealized gains or losses on, for example, hedge/derivative financial instruments and foreign currency transaction gains or losses.



Comprehensive income provides a complete view of a company's income, some of which may not be fully captured on the income statement.





Key Takeaways

Comprehensive income reflects the changes to owners' equity originating from non-owner and traditional income sources.Comprehensive income includes adjustments made to the prices of securities held for sale by the firm and/or derivatives used to hedge such positions, foreign currency exchange rate changes, and adjustments to pension liabilities.It excludes owner-caused changes in equity.Details on comprehensive income often appear in the footnotes to a company's financial statements.Some companies produce a separate statement of comprehensive income.












Investopedia / Laura Porter


   Understanding Comprehensive Income  

Comprehensive income is the sum of a company's net income and other comprehensive income.



For companies, comprehensive income sheds light on changes in equity. Since it includes net income and unrealized income and losses, it provides the big picture of a company's value.



For investors, comprehensive income is useful because the information can help their decision-making where the company's feasibility as a potential investment is concerned.


  What's Included  

The purpose of comprehensive income is to show all operating and financial events that affect non-owner interests. As well as net income, comprehensive income includes unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investments. It also includes cash flow hedges, which can change in value depending on the securities' market value, and debt securities transferred from 'available for sale' to 'held to maturity'—which may also incur unrealized gains or losses. Gains or losses can also be incurred from foreign currency translation adjustments and in pensions and/or post-retirement benefit plans.



Income excluded from the income statement is reported under "accumulated other comprehensive income" of the shareholders' equity section. 



Income from non-owner sources increases the value of a company. However, since it is not from the ongoing operations of the company's normal line of business, it is not appropriate to include it in the traditional income statements.



Comprehensive income excludes owner-caused changes in equity, such as the sale of stock or purchase of Treasury shares.


   Statement of Comprehensive Income  

A company's income statement details revenues and expenses, including taxes and interest. Its bottom line is net income. However, net income only recognizes earned income and incurred expenses.



A statement of comprehensive income, which covers the same period as the income statement, reflects net income as well as other comprehensive income, the latter being unrealized gains and losses on assets that aren't shown on the income statement. The statement of comprehensive income gives company management and investors a fuller, more accurate idea of income.


  Net Income  

The net income section provides information derived from the income statement about a company's total revenues and expenses. The amount is adjusted to account for non-owner activities.



Net income is arrived at by subtracting cost of goods sold, general expenses, taxes, and interest from total revenue.


  Other Comprehensive Income  

The other comprehensive income section provides information on the company's unrealized gains, losses, revenue, and expenses. Here are some examples of other comprehensive income that you may find on the comprehensive income statement:



The unrealized gains and losses on securities that a company has for saleGains and losses on cash flow hedge instrumentsThe unrealized gains and losses on debt securities that result when they're transferred from the 'available for sale category' to the 'held to maturity category'Foreign currency translation adjustmentsForeign currency transaction gains and losses related to a foreign investment hedge.Pension or post-retirement benefit plan gains or losses



At the end of the statement is the comprehensive income total, which is the sum of net income and other comprehensive income.



In some circumstances, companies combine the income statement and statement of comprehensive income, or it will be included as footnotes. However, a company with other comprehensive income will typically file this form separately. The statement of comprehensive income is not required if a company does not meet the criteria to classify income as comprehensive income.






Financial statements, including those showing comprehensive income, only portray activity from a certain period or specific time. They can't guarantee future performance.


   Comprehensive Income Example  

Like other publicly-traded companies, Ford Motor Company files quarterly and annual reports with the SEC. In its first quarter filing for 2023, it published its consolidated statements of comprehensive income, which combines comprehensive income from all of its activities and subsidiaries (featured below).












   Pros and Cons of the Statement of Comprehensive Income  



Pros

It provides a more comprehensive view of a company's income than the income statement alone
Company management can use the added information about income to inform smarter planning for revenue and costs as well as operational decisions
Investors can gain better insight into a company's profitability and the stability of earnings. They can use it as a tool to compare companies as potential investments



Cons

The inclusion of unrealized gains and/or losses can distort the view of a company's financial health
The values for other comprehensive income relate to assumptions, not actual results
Comprehensive income doesn't assure future profitability. It only presents a picture of a company's profitability for a particular period of time in the past







What's Other Comprehensive Income?
Contrary to net income, other comprehensive income is income (gains and losses) not yet realized. It reflects income that cannot be accounted for by the income statement. Some examples of other comprehensive income are foreign currency hedge gains and losses, cash flow hedge gains and losses, and unrealized gains and losses for securities that are available for sale.




What's the Benefit of the Comprehensive Income Statement?
It provides a comprehensive view for company management and investors of a company's profitability picture. It's also a way for a company to record more than simply net income. The statement shows net income as well as other comprehensive income.




What's the Difference Between Net Income and Comprehensive Income?
Net income is the actual profit or gain that a company makes in a particular period. Comprehensive income is the sum of that net income plus the value of yet unrealized profits (or losses) in the same period.


   The Bottom Line  

Comprehensive income is the sum of a company's net income, as recorded on the income statement, and unrealized income (or "other comprehensive income") that is not included on an income statement but is recorded in the statement of comprehensive income.



The statement of comprehensive income displays both net income details and other comprehensive income details. It is appreciated for its more comprehensive view of a company's profitability picture for a particular period.
What Are Comps?  

The term comps, short for comparables, carries different meanings depending on the industry and context, but generally entails a comparison of financial metrics and other factors to quantify performance or determine valuation.



In retail, it refers to a company's same-store sales compared to the previous year or a similar store. Similarly, in financial analysis, comps is short for "comparable company analysis," which is a technique used to assign a value to a business based on the valuation metrics of a peer. In real estate, comps are used to assess a property's value by comparing it to similar properties.





Key Takeaways

Not including new stores in comps removes extraneous factors, such as grand opening promotions, that may skew results.Comps are valuable metrics used by retailers to identify the profitability of a current store.


   Understanding Comps: The Retail Sector  

When used to gauge the performance of retail operations, comps is used in the context of comparable same-store sales. This comps metric is used by analysts and investors to determine what portion of any sales growth is attributed to old stores versus new stores. Some large retail chains release comps monthly.



Stores that have been open for less than one year are new stores. New stores typically experience high growth rates for several reasons, including promotions, increased interest from launches, and grand openings. As a result, including new stores in the growth rate calculation for an entire retail chain can create misleading results. Because the comps metric only compares results for stores that are older than one year, it gives a better indication of true growth for the overall firm.


   Calculating and Using Retail Sales Comps  

To calculate a company's sales growth rate, subtract the previous year's sales from the current year's sales and then divide the difference by the previous year's amount. For example, if Company A earned $2 million in revenues last year and $4 million this year, the calculation to determine its growth rate is $4 million minus $2 million, divided by $2 million, or 100%.



An inquisitive investor digs deeper and asks how much of the growth was due to new stores compared to old stores. They discover that new stores generated $3 million of the current year's sales and stores open for one or more years generated only $1 million of sales.



To calculate comp sales, the investor does not include sales from new stores. The new calculation is $1 million, minus $2 million, divided by $2 million, or -50%. When comp store sales are up, the company's sales are increasing at its current stores. When total sales growth is up and comp stores are down, the company is generating most of its revenue from the opening of new stores to maintain growth, which could be a sign of turmoil.






Comps not only provide investors and analysts with important information about the financial health of a company, but they also help retailers assess how well their existing stores perform against other locations.


   Comps: Business Valuation Method  

When determining the value of a business based on comparable company analysis, an analyst will utilize a ratio based on a value metric such as market capitalization or enterprise value (EV) compared to a performance metric, such as sales, EBITDA, or earnings/earnings per share. A determination on performance can be made under the assumption that companies that are similar should trade at similar multiples.



Such comps are especially valuable when determining the fair market value (FMV) of a business. They can be used to formulate an asking or offer price in an acquisition or sale, or in the case of a dispute between partners or during a buyout.



One common way of using comps to determine the fair market value of a business is to take the price-to-gross revenue multiple and multiplying that figure by the business revenue figure.


   Real Estate Comps  

In real estate, examining comps means comparing properties that possess similar qualities, such as size, age, and location. Factors also include market conditions, such as changes in price over time, as well as conditions of sale, such as whether the property last sold as a distress sale or an estate settlement, or any other factor that could affect its value.



Property owners or buyers should be aware that some comps may not accurately represent the value of a home. Some comps may be too dated in a fast-changing marketplace, or may cite properties that are too far away or still on the market.
What Is Conditional Probability?  

Conditional probability is defined as the likelihood of an event or outcome occurring, based on the occurrence of a previous event or outcome. Conditional probability is calculated by multiplying the probability of the preceding event by the updated probability of the succeeding, or conditional, event.



Conditional probability can be contrasted with unconditional probability. Unconditional probability refers to the likelihood that an event will take place irrespective of whether any other events have taken place or any other conditions are present.





Key Takeaways

Conditional probability refers to the chances that some outcome occurs given that another event has also occurred.It is often stated as the probability of B given A and is written as P(B|A), where the probability of B depends on that of A happening.Conditional probability can be contrasted with unconditional probability.Probabilities are classified as either conditional, marginal, or joint.Bayes' theorem is a mathematical formula used in calculating conditional probability.


   Understanding Conditional Probability  

Conditional probabilities are contingent on a previous result or event occurring. A conditional probability would look at such events in relationship with one another. Conditional probability is thus the likelihood of an event or outcome occurring based on the occurrence of some other event or prior outcome.



Two events are said to be independent if one event occurring does not affect the probability that the other event will occur. However, if one event occurring or not does, in fact, affect the probability that the other event will occur, the two events are said to be dependent. If events are independent, then the probability of some event B is not contingent on what happens with event A. A conditional probability, therefore, relates to those events that are dependent on one another.



Conditional probability is often portrayed as the "probability of A given B," notated as P(A|B).






Conditional probability is used in a variety of fields, such as insurance, economics, politics, and many different fields of mathematics.


   Conditional Probability Formula  

P(B|A) = P(A and B) / P(A) 



Or:



P(B|A) = P(A∩B) / P(A)



Where



P = Probability



A = Event A



B = Event B






Unconditional probability is also known as marginal probability and measures the chance of an occurrence ignoring any knowledge gained from previous or external events. Since this probability ignores new information, it remains constant.


   Examples of Conditional Probability  

As an example, suppose you are drawing three marbles—red, blue, and green—from a bag. Each marble has an equal chance of being drawn. What is the conditional probability of drawing the red marble after already drawing the blue one?



First, the probability of drawing a blue marble is about 33% because it is one possible outcome out of three. Assuming this first event occurs, there will be two marbles remaining, with each having a 50% chance of being drawn. So the chance of drawing a blue marble after already drawing a red marble would be about 16.5% (33% x 50%).



As another example to provide further insight into this concept, consider that a fair die has been rolled and you are asked to give the probability that it was a five. There are six equally likely outcomes, so your answer is 1/6.



But imagine if before you answer, you get extra information that the number rolled was odd. Since there are only three odd numbers that are possible, one of which is five, you would certainly revise your estimate for the likelihood that a five was rolled from 1/6 to 1/3.



This revised probability that an event A has occurred, considering the additional information that another event B has definitely occurred on this trial of the experiment, is called the conditional probability of A given B and is denoted by P(A|B).


  Another Example of Conditional Probability  

As another example, suppose a student is applying for admission to a university and hopes to receive an academic scholarship. The school to which they are applying accepts 100 of every 1,000 applicants (10%) and awards academic scholarships to 10 of every 500 students who are accepted (2%).



Of the scholarship recipients, 50% of them also receive university stipends for books, meals, and housing. For the students, the chance of them being accepted and then receiving a scholarship is .2% (.1 x .02). The chance of them being accepted, receiving the scholarship, then also receiving a stipend for books, etc. is .1% (.1 x .02 x .5).


   Conditional Probability vs. Joint Probability and Marginal Probability  

Conditional probability: p(A|B) is the probability of event A occurring, given that event B occurs. For example, given that you drew a red card, what’s the probability that it’s a four (p(four|red))=2/26=1/13. So out of the 26 red cards (given a red card), there are two fours so 2/26=1/13.
Marginal probability: the probability of an event occurring (p(A)) in isolation. It may be thought of as an unconditional probability. It is not conditioned on another event. Example: the probability that a card drawn is red (p(red) = 0.5). Another example: the probability that a card drawn is a 4 (p(four)=1/13).
Joint probability: p(A ∩B). Joint probability is that of event A and event B occurring. It is the probability of the intersection of two or more events. The probability of the intersection of A and B may be written p(A ∩ B). Example: the probability that a card is a four and red =p(four and red) = 2/52=1/26. (There are two red fours in a deck of 52, the 4 of hearts and the 4 of diamonds).


   Bayes' Theorem and Conditional Probability  

Bayes' theorem, named after 18th-century British mathematician Thomas Bayes, is a mathematical formula for determining conditional probability. The theorem provides a way to revise existing predictions or theories (update probabilities) given new or additional evidence. In finance, Bayes' theorem can be used to rate the risk of lending money to potential borrowers.



Bayes' theorem is also called Bayes' Rule or Bayes' Law and is the foundation of the field of Bayesian statistics. This set of rules of probability allows one to update their predictions of events occurring based on new information that has been received, making for better and more dynamic estimates.






Bayes' theorem is well suited to and widely used in machine learning.




How Do You Calculate Conditional Probability?
Conditional probability is calculated by multiplying the probability of the preceding event by the probability of the succeeding or conditional event. Conditional probability looks at the probability of one event happening based on the probability of a preceding event happening.




What Is a Conditional Probability Calculator?
A conditional probability calculator is an online tool that will calculate conditional probability. It will provide the probability of the first event and the second event occurring. A conditional probability calculator saves the user from doing the mathematics manually.




What Is the Difference Between Probability and Conditional Probability?
Probability looks at the likelihood of one event occurring. Conditional probability looks at two events occurring in relation to one another. It looks at the probability of a second event occurring based on the probability of the first event occurring.




What Is Prior Probability?
Prior probability is the probability of an event occurring before any data has been gathered to determine the probability. It is the probability as determined by a prior belief. Prior probability is a component of Bayesian statistical inference.




What Is Compound Probability?
Compound probability looks to determine the likelihood of two independent events occurring. Compound probability multiplies the probability of the first event by the probability of the second event. The most common example is that of a coin flipped twice and the determination if the second result will be the same or different than the first.


   The Bottom Line  

Conditional probability examines the likelihood of an event occurring based on the likelihood of a preceding event occurring. The second event is dependent on the first event. It is calculated by multiplying the probability of the first event by the probability of the second event.
What Is Conditional Value at Risk (CVaR)?  

Conditional Value at Risk (CVaR), also known as the expected shortfall, is a risk assessment measure that quantifies the amount of tail risk an investment portfolio has. CVaR is derived by taking a weighted average of the “extreme” losses in the tail of the distribution of possible returns, beyond the value at risk (VaR) cutoff point. Conditional value at risk is used in portfolio optimization for effective risk management.





Key Takeaways

Conditional value at risk is derived from the value at risk for a portfolio or investment.The use of CVaR as opposed to just VaR tends to lead to a more conservative approach in terms of risk exposure.The choice between VaR and CVaR is not always clear, but volatile and engineered investments can benefit from CVaR as a check to the assumptions imposed by VaR.


   Understanding Conditional Value at Risk (CVaR)  

Generally speaking, if an investment has shown stability over time, then the value at risk may be sufficient for risk management in a portfolio containing that investment. However, the less stable the investment, the greater the chance that VaR will not give a full picture of the risks, as it is indifferent to anything beyond its own threshold.



Conditional Value at Risk (CVaR) attempts to address the shortcomings of the VaR model, which is a statistical technique used to measure the level of financial risk within a firm or an investment portfolio over a specific time frame. While VaR represents a worst-case loss associated with a probability and a time horizon, CVaR is the expected loss if that worst-case threshold is ever crossed. CVaR, in other words, quantifies the expected losses that occur beyond the VaR breakpoint.


   Conditional Value at Risk (CVaR) Formula  

Since CVaR values are derived from the calculation of VaR itself, the assumptions that VaR is based on, such as the shape of the distribution of returns, the cut-off level used, the periodicity of the data, and the assumptions about stochastic volatility, will all affect the value of CVaR. Calculating CVaR is simple once VaR has been calculated. It is the average of the values that fall beyond the VaR:



﻿















C


V


a


R


=




1




1


−


c





∫



−


1




V


a


R




x


p


(


x


)



d


x
















where:
















p


(


x


)


d


x


=


the probability density of getting a return with


















 


value “


x


”
















c


=


the cut-off point on the distribution where the analyst

















 


 


 


sets the 


V


a


R


 breakpoint








\begin{aligned} &CVaR=\frac{1}{1-c}\int^{VaR}_{-1}xp(x)\,dx\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &p(x)dx= \text{the probability density of getting a return with}\\ &\qquad\qquad\ \text{value ``}x\text{''}\\ &c=\text{the cut-off point on the distribution where the analyst}\\ &\quad\ \ \ \text{sets the }VaR\text{ breakpoint}\\ &VaR=\text{the agreed-upon }VaR\text{ level} \end{aligned}


​CVaR=1−c1​∫−1VaR​xp(x)dxwhere:p(x)dx=the probability density of getting a return with value “x”c=the cut-off point on the distribution where the analyst   sets the VaR breakpoint​﻿


   Conditional Value at Risk and Investment Profiles  

Safer investments like large-cap U.S. stocks or investment-grade bonds rarely exceed VaR by a significant amount. More volatile asset classes, like small-cap U.S. stocks, emerging markets stocks, or derivatives, can exhibit CVaRs many times greater than VaRs. Ideally, investors are looking for small CVaRs. However, investments with the most upside potential often have large CVaRs.



Financially engineered investments often lean heavily on VaR because it doesn't get bogged down in outlier data in models. However, there have been times where engineered products or models may have been better constructed and more cautiously used if CVaR had been favored. History has many examples, such as Long-Term Capital Management which depended on VaR to measure its risk profile, yet still managed to crush itself by not properly taking into account a loss larger than forecasted by the VaR model. CVaR would, in this case, have focused the hedge fund on the true risk exposure rather than the VaR cutoff. In financial modeling, a debate is almost always going on about VaR versus CVaR for efficient risk management.
What Is a Confidence Interval?  

A confidence interval, in statistics, refers to the probability that a population parameter will fall between a set of values for a certain proportion of times. Analysts often use confidence intervals that contain either 95% or 99% of expected observations. Thus, if a point estimate is generated from a statistical model of 10.00 with a 95% confidence interval of 9.50 - 10.50, it can be inferred that there is a 95% probability that the true value falls within that range.



Statisticians and other analysts use confidence intervals to understand the statistical significance of their estimations, inferences, or predictions. If a confidence interval contains the value of zero (or some other null hypothesis), then one cannot satisfactorily claim that a result from data generated by testing or experimentation is to be attributable to a specific cause rather than chance.





Key Takeaways

A confidence interval displays the probability that a parameter will fall between a pair of values around the mean.Confidence intervals measure the degree of uncertainty or certainty in a sampling method.They are also used in hypothesis testing and regression analysis.Statisticians often use p-values in conjunction with confidence intervals to gauge statistical significance.They are most often constructed using confidence levels of 95% or 99%.


   Understanding Confidence Intervals  

Confidence intervals measure the degree of uncertainty or certainty in a sampling method. They can take any number of probability limits, with the most common being a 95% or 99% confidence level. Confidence intervals are conducted using statistical methods, such as a t-test.



Statisticians use confidence intervals to measure uncertainty in an estimate of a population parameter based on a sample. For example, a researcher selects different samples randomly from the same population and computes a confidence interval for each sample to see how it may represent the true value of the population variable. The resulting datasets are all different; some intervals include the true population parameter and others do not.



A confidence interval is a range of values, bounded above and below the statistic's mean, that likely would contain an unknown population parameter. Confidence level refers to the percentage of probability, or certainty, that the confidence interval would contain the true population parameter when you draw a random sample many times. Or, in the vernacular, "we are 99% certain (confidence level) that most of these samples (confidence intervals) contain the true population parameter."



The biggest misconception regarding confidence intervals is that they represent the percentage of data from a given sample that falls between the upper and lower bounds. For example, one might erroneously interpret the aforementioned 99% confidence interval of 70-to-78 inches as indicating that 99% of the data in a random sample falls between these numbers. This is incorrect, though a separate method of statistical analysis exists to make such a determination. Doing so involves identifying the sample's mean and standard deviation and plotting these figures on a bell curve.






Confidence interval and confidence level are interrelated but are not exactly the same.


   Calculating Confidence Intervals  

Suppose a group of researchers is studying the heights of high school basketball players. The researchers take a random sample from the population and establish a mean height of 74 inches.



The mean of 74 inches is a point estimate of the population mean. A point estimate by itself is of limited usefulness because it does not reveal the uncertainty associated with the estimate; you do not have a good sense of how far away this 74-inch sample mean might be from the population mean. What's missing is the degree of uncertainty in this single sample.



Confidence intervals provide more information than point estimates. By establishing a 95% confidence interval using the sample's mean and standard deviation, and assuming a normal distribution as represented by the bell curve, the researchers arrive at an upper and lower bound that contains the true mean 95% of the time.



Assume the interval is between 72 inches and 76 inches. If the researchers take 100 random samples from the population of high school basketball players as a whole, the mean should fall between 72 and 76 inches in 95 of those samples.



If the researchers want even greater confidence, they can expand the interval to 99% confidence. Doing so invariably creates a broader range, as it makes room for a greater number of sample means. If they establish the 99% confidence interval as being between 70 inches and 78 inches, they can expect 99 of 100 samples evaluated to contain a mean value between these numbers.



 A 90% confidence level, on the other hand, implies that we would expect 90% of the interval estimates to include the population parameter, and so forth.




What Does a Confidence Interval Reveal?
A confidence interval is a range of values, bounded above and below the statistic's mean, that likely would contain an unknown population parameter. Confidence level refers to the percentage of probability, or certainty, that the confidence interval would contain the true population parameter when you draw a random sample many times.




Why Are Confidence Intervals Used?
Statisticians use confidence intervals to measure uncertainty in a sample variable. For example, a researcher selects different samples randomly from the same population and computes a confidence interval for each sample to see how it may represent the true value of the population variable. The resulting datasets are all different where some intervals include the true population parameter and others do not.




What Is a Common Misconception About Confidence Intervals?
The biggest misconception regarding confidence intervals is that they represent the percentage of data from a given sample that falls between the upper and lower bounds. In other words, it would be incorrect to assume that a 99% confidence interval means that 99% of the data in a random sample falls between these bounds. What it actually means is that one can be 99% certain that the range will contain the population mean.




What Is a T-Test?
Confidence intervals are conducted using statistical methods, such as a t-test. A t-test is a type of inferential statistic used to determine if there is a significant difference between the means of two groups, which may be related to certain features. Calculating a t-test requires three key data values. They include the difference between the mean values from each data set (called the mean difference), the standard deviation of each group, and the number of data values of each group.




How Do You Interpret P-Values and Confidence Interval?
A p-value is a statistical measurement used to validate a hypothesis against observed data that measures the probability of obtaining the observed results, assuming that the null hypothesis is true. In general, a p-value less than 0.05 is considered to be statistically significant, in which case the null hypothesis should be rejected. This can somewhat correspond to the probability that the null hypothesis value (which is often zero) is contained within a 95% confidence interval.


   The Bottom Line  

Confidence intervals allow analysts to understand the likelihood that the results from statistical analyses are real or due to chance. When trying to make inferences or predictions based on a sample of data, there will be some uncertainty as to whether to results of such an analysis actually correspond with the real-world population being studied. The confidence interval depicts the likely range within which the true value should fall.
What Is a Conflict of Interest?  

A conflict of interest occurs when an entity or individual becomes unreliable because of a clash between personal (or self-serving) interests and professional duties or responsibilities. Such a conflict occurs when a company or person has a vested interest—such as money, status, knowledge, relationships, or reputation—which puts into question whether their actions, judgment, or decision-making can be unbiased.



Some examples of a conflict of interest could be:



Representing a family member in courtStarting a business that competes with your full-time employerAdvising a client to invest in a company owned by your spouseHiring an unqualified relative or friend



When such a situation arises, the party with the conflict of interest is usually asked to remove themselves, and it is often legally required of them.





Key Takeaways

A conflict of interest occurs when a person's or entity's vested interests raise a question of whether their actions, judgment, and/or decision-making can be unbiased.In business, a conflict of interest arises when a person chooses personal gain over duties to their employer, or to an organization in which they are a stakeholder, or exploits their position for personal gain in some way.Conflicts of interest often have legal ramifications.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Understanding Conflict of Interest  

A conflict of interest in business normally refers to a situation in which an individual's personal interests conflict with the professional interests owed to their employer or the company in which they are invested. A conflict of interest arises when a person chooses personal gain over the duties to an organization in which they are a stakeholder or exploits their position for personal gain in some way.



All corporate board members have fiduciary duties and a duty of loyalty to the corporations they oversee. If one of the directors chooses to take action that benefits them at the detriment of the firm, they are harming the company with a conflict of interest.



One example might be the board member of a property insurance company who votes on the induction of lower premiums for companies with fleet vehicles—when they, in fact, own a truck company. Even if the institution of lower premiums isn't a bad business move for the insurer, it could still be considered a conflict of interest because the board member has a special interest in the outcome.



In legal circles, representation by a lawyer or party with a vested interest in the outcome of the trial would be considered a conflict of interest, and the representation would not be allowed. Additionally, judges who have a relationship with one of the parties involved in a case or lawsuit will recuse themselves from presiding over the case.


   Special Considerations  

A conflict of interest may lead to legal ramifications as well as job loss. However, if there is a perceived conflict of interest and the person has not yet acted maliciously, it's possible to remove that person from the situation or decision in which a possible conflict of interest can arise. Using the prior example of a board member who owns a truck company, they could simply remove themselves from all decisions that could positively or negatively affect their personal business.


   Common Types of Conflicts of Interest  

Self-dealing is the most common type of conflict of interest in the business world. It occurs when a management-level professional accepts a transaction from another organization that benefits the manager and harms the company or the company's clients.



Gift issuance is also a very common conflict of interest. It happens when a corporate manager or officer accepts a gift from a client or a similar type of person. Companies normally circumvent this issue by prohibiting gifts from customers to individual employees.



Troublesome situations may also arise when, in the course of professional duties, an individual collects confidential information. Any information of this type used for personal gain by an employee is a huge conflict of interest, at least in the United States. The financial industry constantly grapples with this type of conflict of interest in the form of insider trading.



Finally, the hiring of, or showing favorable workplace treatment to, a relative or spouse—known as nepotism—can result in a potential conflict of interest.






A financial advisor who knowingly advises clients to purchase financial products which are not in their best interests (too expensive, too risky, or not in line with stated goals), but which earn the advisor a bigger commission, would be guilty of conflict of interest.


   Real-World Example of Conflict of Interest  

In the financial industry, an agency problem refers to a type of conflict of interest where agents don't fully represent the best interests of their principals. The Enron scandal is an extreme example of an agency problem that led to the collapse of what was at the time one of the largest companies in the United States.



In 2001, Enron Corporation declared bankruptcy after it was revealed that the top leaders in the company had used mark-to-market accounting and special purpose vehicles (SPVs) to hide financial losses. This made the company appear more profitable than it really was.



While Enron's executives had a legal responsibility to protect the interests of its shareholders, some executives instead engaged in illegal activities to camouflage the company's massive losses and debts. Share prices dropped from over $90 a share to under $1 a share. Several executives were indicted for their actions and eventually sent to prison.
What Is Conflict Theory?  

Conflict theory, first developed by Karl Marx, is a theory that society is in a state of perpetual conflict because of competition for limited resources.



Conflict theory holds that social order is maintained by domination and power, rather than by consensus and conformity. According to conflict theory, those with wealth and power try to hold on to it by any means possible, chiefly by suppressing the poor and powerless. A basic premise of conflict theory is that individuals and groups within society will work to try to maximize their own wealth and power.





Key Takeaways

Conflict theory focuses on the competition among groups within society over limited resources.Conflict theory views social and economic institutions as tools of the struggle among groups or classes, used to maintain inequality and the dominance of the ruling class.Marxist conflict theory sees society as divided along lines of economic class between the proletarian working class and the bourgeois ruling class.Later versions of conflict theory look at other dimensions of conflict among capitalist factions and among various social, religious, and other types of groups.












Theresa Chiechi / Investopedia


   Understanding Conflict Theory  

Conflict theory has sought to explain a wide range of social phenomena, including wars, revolutions, poverty, discrimination, and domestic violence. It ascribes most of the fundamental developments in human history, such as democracy and civil rights, to capitalistic attempts to control the masses (as opposed to a desire for social order). Central tenets of conflict theory are the concepts of social inequality, the division of resources, and the conflicts that exist among different socioeconomic classes.



The central tenets of conflict theory can explain many types of societal conflicts throughout history. Some theorists believe, as Marx did, that societal conflict is the force that ultimately drives change and development in society.



Marx’s version of conflict theory focused on the conflict between two primary classes. Each class consists of a group of people bound by mutual interests and a certain degree of property ownership. Marx theorized about the bourgeoisie, a group that represented members of society who hold the majority of the wealth and means. The proletariat is the other group: It includes those considered working-class or poor.



With the rise of capitalism, Marx theorized that the bourgeoisie, a minority within the population, would use their influence to oppress the proletariat, the majority class. This way of thinking is tied to a common image associated with conflict theory-based models of society; adherents to this philosophy tend to believe in a pyramid arrangement in terms of how goods and services are distributed in society. At the top of the pyramid is a small group of elites that dictate terms and conditions to the larger portion of society because they have an outsized amount of control over resources and power.



Uneven distribution within society was predicted to be maintained through ideological coercion; the bourgeoisie would force acceptance of the current conditions by the proletariat. Conflict theory assumes that the elite will set up systems of laws, traditions, and other societal structures in order to further support their own dominance while preventing others from joining their ranks.



Marx theorized that, as the working class and poor were subjected to worsening conditions, a collective consciousness would raise more awareness about inequality, and this would potentially result in revolt. If, after the revolt, conditions were adjusted to favor the concerns of the proletariat, the conflict circle would eventually repeat but in the opposite direction. The bourgeoisie would eventually become the aggressor and revolter, grasping for the return of the structures that formerly maintained their dominance.


   Conflict Theory Assumptions  

Current conflict theory has four primary assumptions that are helpful to understand: competition, revolution, structural inequality, and war.


  Competition  

Conflict theorists believe that competition is a constant and, at times, an overwhelming factor in nearly every human relationship and interaction. Competition exists as a result of the scarcity of resources, including material resources—money, property, commodities, and more. Beyond material resources, individuals and groups within a society compete for intangible resources as well. These can include leisure time, dominance, social status, sexual partners, etc. Conflict theorists assume that competition is the default (rather than cooperation).


  Revolution  

Given conflict theorists' assumption that conflict occurs between social classes, one outcome of this conflict is a revolutionary event. The idea is that change in a power dynamic between groups does not happen as the result of a gradual adaptation. Rather, it comes about as the symptom of conflict between these groups. In this way, changes to a power dynamic are often abrupt and large in scale, rather than gradual and evolutionary.


  Structural inequality  

An important assumption of conflict theory is that human relationships and social structures all experience inequalities of power. In this way, some individuals and groups inherently develop more power and reward than others. Following this, those individuals and groups that benefit from a particular structure of society tend to work to maintain those structures as a way of retaining and enhancing their power.


  War  

Conflict theorists tend to see war as either a unifier or as a "cleanser" of societies. In conflict theory, war is the result of a cumulative and growing conflict between individuals and groups and between entire societies. In the context of war, a society may become unified in some ways, but conflict still remains between multiple societies. On the other hand, war may also result in the wholesale end of a society.


   Special Considerations  

Marx viewed capitalism as part of a historical progression of economic systems. He believed capitalism was rooted in commodities, or things that are purchased and sold. For example, he believed that labor is a type of commodity. Because laborers have little control or power in the economic system (because they don’t own factories or materials), their worth can be devalued over time. This can create an imbalance between business owners and their workers, which can eventually lead to social conflicts. He believed these problems would eventually be fixed through a social and economic revolution. 


  Adaptations of Marx's conflict theory  

Max Weber, a German sociologist, philosopher, jurist, and political economist, adopted many aspects of Marx's conflict theory and later further refined some of Marx's ideas. Weber believed that conflict over property was not limited to one specific scenario. Rather, he believed that there were multiple layers of conflict existing at any given moment and in every society.



Whereas Marx framed his view of conflict as one between owners and workers, Weber also added an emotional component to his ideas about conflict. Weber said: "It is these that underlie the power of religion and make it an important ally of the state; that transform classes into status groups, and do the same to territorial communities under particular circumstances...and that make 'legitimacy' a crucial focus for efforts at domination."



Weber's beliefs about conflict extend beyond Marx's because they suggest that some forms of social interaction, including conflict, generate beliefs and solidarity between individuals and groups within a society. In this way, an individual's reactions to inequality might be different depending on the groups with which they are associated; whether they perceive those in power to be legitimate; and so on.



Conflict theorists of the later 20th and early 21st centuries have continued to extend conflict theory beyond the strict economic classes posited by Marx, although economic relations remain a core feature of the inequalities across groups in the various branches of conflict theory. Conflict theory is highly influential in modern and postmodern theories of sexual and racial inequality, peace and conflict studies, and the many varieties of identity studies that have arisen across Western academia in the past several decades.


   Examples of Conflict Theory  

Conflict theorists view the relationship between a housing complex owner and a tenant as being based mainly on conflict instead of balance or harmony, even though there may be more harmony than conflict. They believe that they are defined by getting whatever resources they can from each other.



In the above example, some of the limited resources that may contribute to conflicts between tenants and the complex owner include the limited space within the complex, the limited number of units, the money that tenants pay to the complex owner for rent, and so on. Ultimately, conflict theorists see this dynamic as one of conflict over these resources.



The complex owner, however gracious, is fundamentally focused on getting as many apartment units filled as possible so that they can make as much money in rent as possible, especially if bills such as mortgages and utilities must be covered. This may introduce conflict between housing complexes, among tenant applicants looking to move into an apartment, and so forth. On the other side of the conflict, the tenants themselves are looking to get the best apartment possible for the least amount of money in rent.



The financial crisis of 2008 and the subsequent bank bailouts are good examples of real-life conflict theory, according to authors Alan Sears and James Cairns in their book A Good Book, in Theory. They view the financial crisis as the inevitable outcome of the inequalities and instabilities of the global economic system, which enable the largest banks and institutions to avoid government oversight and take huge risks that only reward a select few.



Sears and Cairns note that large banks and big businesses subsequently received bailout funds from the same governments that claimed to have insufficient funds for large-scale social programs such as universal healthcare. This dichotomy supports a fundamental assumption of conflict theory, which is that mainstream political institutions and cultural practices favor dominant groups and individuals.



This example illustrates that conflict can be inherent in all types of relationships, including those that don't appear on the surface to be antagonistic. It also shows that even a straightforward scenario can lead to multiple layers of conflict.




What Is Conflict Theory?
Conflict theory is a sociopolitical theory that originated with Karl Marx. It seeks to explain political and economic events in terms of an ongoing struggle over finite resources. In this struggle, Marx emphasizes the antagonistic relationship between social classes, in particular the relationship between the owners of capital—who Marx calls the “bourgeoisie”—and the working class, which he calls the “proletariat.” Conflict theory had a profound influence on 19th- and 20th-century thought and continues to influence political debates to this day.




What Are Some Common Criticisms of Conflict Theory?
One common criticism of conflict theory is that it fails to capture the way in which economic interactions can mutually benefit the different classes involved. For example, conflict theory describes the relationship between employers and employees as one of conflict, in which the employers wish to pay as little as possible for the employees' labor, while the employees wish to maximize their wages. In practice, however, employees and employers often have a harmonious relationship. Moreover, institutions such as pension plans and stock-based compensation can further blur the boundary between workers and corporations by giving workers an additional stake in the success of their employer.




Who Is Credited With Inventing Conflict Theory?
Conflict theory is attributed to Karl Marx, a 19th-century political philosopher who led the development of communism as a school of thought in economics. Karl Marx’s two most famous works are The Communist Manifesto, which he published in 1848; and Das Kapital, published in 1867. Although he lived in the 19th century, Marx had a substantial influence on politics and economics in the 20th century and is generally considered one of history’s most influential and controversial thinkers.
What Is a Conglomerate?  

A conglomerate is a corporation of several different, sometimes unrelated, businesses. In a conglomerate, one company owns a controlling stake in several smaller companies, conducting business separately and independently.



Conglomerates often diversify business risk by participating in many different markets, although some conglomerates, such as those in mining, elect to participate in a single sector industry. Economists, however, warn that large and far-flung conglomerates can become inefficient and costly to maintain, eroding value for shareholders.





Key Takeaways

A conglomerate is a corporation made up of several different, independent businesses.In a conglomerate, one company owns a controlling stake in smaller companies that each conduct business operations separately.Conglomerates can be created in several ways, including mergers or acquisitions. The parent company can cut back the risks from being in a single market by becoming a conglomerate diversified across several industry sectors.Economists warn that conglomerates can become too oversized to operate efficiently. 












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   Understanding Conglomerates  

Conglomerates are large parent companies made up of smaller independent entities that may operate across multiple industries. Each of a conglomerate's subsidiary businesses runs independently of the other business divisions; but, the subsidiaries' managers report to the senior management of the parent company. Many conglomerates are thus multinational and multi-industry corporations.



Taking part in many different businesses can help a conglomerate company diversify the risks posed by being in a single market. Doing so may also help the parent lower total operating costs and require fewer resources. But, there are also times when such a company grows too large and loses efficiency. To deal with this, the conglomerate may divest. This is known as the conglomerate "curse of bigness."



There are many different types of more specialized conglomerates today, ranging from manufacturing to media to food. A media conglomerate may start out owning several newspapers, then purchase television and radio stations and book publishing companies. A food conglomerate may start by selling potato chips. The company may decide to diversify, buy a soda pop company, and then expand by purchasing other companies that make different food products.



Conglomeration is the term that describes the process by which a conglomerate is created when a parent company begins to acquire subsidiaries.


   How Conglomerates Come to Exist  

Companies can become conglomerates can be created in a variety of ways, and sometimes in a combination of ways.


  Acquisitions  

The most common way is via acquisitions: simply buying other companies. If a target firm is big enough, it might not become a mere subsidiary; instead, it and the acquiring company might actually merge, combining their talent, assets, resources, and personnel into one new legal entity. A conglomerate merger occurred when The Walt Disney Company merged with the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) in 1995, for example.


  Expansions  

Another approach is that of organic expansion. This strategy is more of corporate restructuring and reorganization, and sometimes the creation of a parent company to own various smaller ones. For example, in 2015, Google Inc. restructured. The corporate parent became known as Alphabet, and Google became a separate subsidiary within it, in a move intended to separate the company's core business—the well-known search engine—from a rapidly increasing array of other business ventures Alphabet was developing or acquiring.


  Extensions  

Yet another approach is that of an expansion of a family business or a historic, one-sector business into new industries or areas. Berkshire Hathaway (see "Real-World Examples of Conglomerates" below) can be considered an example of this. The company sprang from two 19th-century Massachusetts cotton mills that merged in 1955. When Warren Buffett gained control of it in 1965, he took it out of the textile business and turned Berkshire Hathaway into a holding company—one that existed to invest in other businesses, rather than manufacture products or provide services on its own.



Of course, there can be overlap among these approaches, and some conglomerates are the result of all three. Case in point: Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton (LVMUY), commonly referred to as LVMH. This French luxury conglomerate began as a family business in 1854—a luggage and other leather goods maker named Louis Vuitton, after its founder. LVMH came into being over a century later, the result of a merger between Vuitton and wine/spirits company, Moët Hennessy.



LVMH itself acts as the holding company for 75 different subsidiaries, or "houses" as it calls them, in six different sectors. The original Louis Vuitton, Moët & Chandon, and Hennessy (the latter two owned by Moët Hennessy) are three of those houses. Most of the others LVMH has bought, and while they all tend to be producers of upscale, discretionary consumer goods, their fields range from jewelry (Tiffany & Co.) and cosmetics (Givenchy Parfums) to publications (Le Parisien) and designer clothing (Fendi).


   Benefits of Conglomerates  

For the management team of a conglomerate, a wide array of companies in different industries can be a real boon for their bottom line. Poorly performing companies or industries can be offset by other sectors and cyclical companies can be balanced by counter-cyclical or non-cyclicals. By participating in several unrelated businesses, the parent corporation is able to reduce costs by utilizing fewer inputs that may be shared across subsidiaries, and by diversifying business interests. As a result, the risks inherent in operating in a single market are mitigated.



In addition, companies owned by conglomerates have access to internal capital markets, enabling greater ability to grow as a company. A conglomerate can allocate capital for one of their companies if external capital markets aren’t offering as kind terms the company wants. One additional advantage of conglomeration is that it can provide immunity from the takeover of the parent company as it grows ever larger.


   Disadvantages of Conglomerates  

Economists have discovered that the size of conglomerates can hurt the value of their stock, a phenomenon known as the conglomerate discount. The sum of the values of the individual companies held by a conglomerate tends to be greater than the value of the conglomerate's stock by anywhere from 13% to 15%. 



History has shown that conglomerates can become so vastly diversified and complicated that they grow too challenging to manage efficiently. Layers of management add to the overhead of their businesses, and depending on how wide-ranging a conglomerate's interests are, management's attention can be drawn thin.



The financial health of a conglomerate is difficult to discern by investors, analysts, and regulators because the numbers are usually announced in a group, making it hard to discern the performance of any individual company held by a conglomerate. This lack of transparency may also dissuade some investors. Since the height of their popularity between the 1960s and the 1980s, many conglomerates have reduced the number of businesses under their management to a few choice subsidiaries through divestiture and spinoffs.





1968

The peak year of the conglomeration trend in the U.S. according to the book The Go-Go Years: The Drama and Crashing Finale of Wall Street's Bullish 60s Around 4,500 mergers occurred in that year, and 10 out of the country's 200 largest companies were conglomerates by that time.


   Examples of Conglomerates  

Warren Buffet's Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.A) is a well-known conglomerate that has successfully managed companies involved in everything from plane manufacturing and textiles to insurance and real estate. Berkshire is well-respected and has become one of the world's largest and most influential companies. Buffet's approach is to manage the capital allocation and allow companies near-total discretion when managing the operations of their own business. Berkshire Hathaway has a majority stake in over 50 companies and minority holdings in dozens more. Still, the company has only a small headquarters office staffed with a relatively small number of people.



Another example is General Electric (GE). Initially founded by renowned inventor Thomas Edison as an electronics company and innovation lab, the company has expanded to own firms working in energy, real estate, finance, media, and healthcare. The company comprises several distinct arms that operate independently but are all interlinked. This inter-linkage lends itself to GE's initial mandate of extensive research and development (R&D) on technologies that can be applied to a broad range of products.


   Conglomerates in the 1960s  

The first significant conglomerate boom occurred in the 1960s, and these early conglomerates were initially deemed to be overvalued by the market. Low-interest rates at the time made it, so leveraged buyouts were easier for managers of big companies to justify because the money came relatively cheap. As long as company profits were more than the interest needing to be paid on loans, the conglomerate could be ensured a return on investment (ROI). Banks and capital markets were willing to lend companies money for these buyouts because they were generally seen as safe investments.



At the same time, the theory of synergy was becoming fashionable in business management and economic circles: the idea that the cross-combining of companies, products, and markets can enhance efficiency and profitability. This the-whole-is-greater-than-the-sum-of-its-parts concept helped justify mergers and acquisitions, even if the target firms were pretty far from the parent company's core business.



This optimism kept stock prices high and allowed companies to guarantee loans. The glow wore off of big conglomerates as interest rates were adjusted as a response to steadily rising inflation that ended up peaking in 1980.



It also became clear that the purchased companies weren't necessarily improving their performance, which disproved the popularly held idea that they would become more efficient after being acquired. In fact, mismanaged and misunderstood by the parent, they often performed worse and dragged down the entire corporation's bottom line. So much for synergy. In response to falling profits, the majority of conglomerates began divesting the companies they bought, downsizing and returning to their core businesses. A few continued on as shell corporations.


   Foreign Conglomerates  

Conglomerate companies take on slightly different forms in different countries. 






Many conglomerates in China are state-owned.



Japan’s conglomerate is called keiretsu, where companies own small shares in one another and are centered around a core bank. In some ways, this business structure is a defensive one, protecting companies from wild rises and falls in the stock market and hostile takeovers. Mitsubishi is an excellent example of a company engaged in a Keiretsu model.



Korea’s corollary when it comes to conglomerates is called chaebol, a type of family-owned company where the position of president is inherited by family members, who ultimately have more control over the company than shareholders or members of the board. Well-known Chaebol companies include Samsung, Hyundai, and LG.




What Company Is the Biggest Conglomerate?
The biggest conglomerate in the world, based on market value, is the company Reliance Industries, whose market cap is $226.2 billion (as of April 16, 2022).




Is Facebook a Conglomerate?
Although the company itself doesn't love the term, Facebook—now known as Meta Platforms Inc. (FB)—can indeed be considered a conglomerate. It has acquired a number of firms throughout the 2010s. Major acquisitions include Instagram, WhatsApp, Oculus VR, Onavo, and Beluga.




Is Amazon a Conglomerate?
Amazon doesn't describe itself as a conglomerate, and some business journalists and analysts agree: They feel it doesn't fit the traditional model of a sprawling corporate empire, populated by diverse, independently operating acquired companies.In the last decade, Amazon has bought a variety of businesses, some of them fairly far afield from its roots as an online bookseller. Major acquisitions include Whole Foods (groceries), Kiva Systems (robotics), PillPack (pharmacy), Twitch Interactive (video games), and the pending MGM (films/TV programs).Still, e-commerce and digital property/activities remain a unifying theme in most of its purchases, and Amazon also works hard to bring newcomers into the fold—you can order Whole Foods deliveries on the Amazon site. Perhaps the way to think of Amazon is as a 21st-century corporate giant or, as The New York Times put it, "one of these new-economy conglomerates."




What Is a Multinational Conglomerate?
A multinational conglomerate is a company that owns other companies or businesses in at least one country other than its own—the one where it's headquartered. Though similar to a multinational corporation (MNC), it's not quite the same, as an MNC could simply be a firm with subsidiaries, operations, or other holdings in foreign nations, as opposed to separate companies.
What Is Consignment?  

Consignment is an arrangement in which goods are left in the possession of an authorized third party to sell. Goods sold in this way are said to be "consigned" to a third party for sale. Items sold on consignment are typically sold by consignment shops, which receive a percentage of the revenue from the sale (sometimes a very large percentage) in the form of commission.



Consignment deals are made on a variety of products, such as artwork, clothing and accessories, and books. Some types of retail sales may be viewed as a special form of consignment where producers rely on retail stores to sell their products to consumers, although secondhand stores and thrift stores are more typically associated with the practice of consignment.



Consignment arrangements, however, would not include retailers such as Walmart or most supermarkets, which purchase goods outright from wholesalers and then sell their items at a markup.





Key Takeaways

Consignment is an arrangement in which goods are left with a third party to sell.The party that sells the goods on consignment receives a portion of the profits, either as a flat rate fee or commission.Selling via a consignment arrangement can be a low-commission, low-time-investment way of selling items or services.Items commonly sold by consignment include clothing, athletic equipment, furniture, musical instruments, art, and jewelry.Most consignment shops and online dealers will offer terms, but some are willing to negotiate.Consignment is a good workaround if you don't possess a physical store or online marketplace in which to sell your goods.


   Understanding Consignment  

In the 21st century, so-called consignment shops have become trendy, especially those offering specialty products, infant wear, pet care, and high-end fashion items. The millennial generation, in particular, is known for its frugal shopping habits, which include eschewing high-end stores and designer boutiques in favor of bargains found at thrift and consignment shops.



Economists list rising student debt, stagnant wages, and the psychological effects of the Great Recession of 2007-2009 as factors pushing younger shoppers toward consignment shops and other discount stores.


   Advantages of Consignment  

Selling on consignment is a great option for an individual or business that does not have a brick-and-mortar presence, although consignment arrangements can also exist in cyberspace. To a certain degree, online companies such as eBay are consignment shops; for a percentage of the sale, they offer people a marketplace to exhibit and sell their wares. This removes the necessity for an individual to have to create their own website, attract customers, and set up payment processes. Likewise, items marketed and sold through television channels—such as the as-seen-on-TV phenomenon—are forms of consignment.



Sellers who do not have the time or the desire to advertise their product for sale, to take time off work to accommodate prospective buyers' schedules, to conduct pricing research, and to endure the tasks associated with selling an item firsthand often find that consignment fees are a small price to pay to put the work in someone else's hands, particularly if they are successful in negotiating a low fee.


   Disadvantages of Consignment  

The primary disadvantage of the consignment model for producers or owners is that consignment shops typically charge a high level of commission on consignment sales. For artworks, for example, it's not uncommon for galleries to charge a 50% commission. Since this commission comes out of the share returned to the owner or producer of the goods sold, it can reduce their profits significantly.



Another disadvantage of the consignment model is that sellers can lose control over how their products are marketed and sold. The consignment shop will generally take control of every aspect of marketing and presentation for a given product. This can mean that products are presented in a way that the owner or producer does not approve of. Sometimes, issues like this are covered in consignment agreements, but often selling on consignment means ceding a great deal of control to the consignment seller.


   Consignment Payment Structure  

A person wishing to sell an item on consignment delivers it to a consignment shop or a third party to do the selling on their behalf. Before the third party takes possession of the good, an agreement must be reached as to the revenue split when the item is sold.



Most consignment shops have standard fee schedules that indicate the percentage of the sales price that is paid to the shop and the percentage paid to the seller. However, many consignment shops are willing to negotiate, particularly for larger-ticket items, such as artwork, that offer greater revenue potential. Depending on the consignment shop and the item being sold, the seller may concede 25% to 60% of the sales price in consignment fees.



Consignment arrangements typically are in effect for a set period of time. After this time, if a sale is not made, the goods are returned to their owner. Alternatively, the consignment period may be extended upon mutual agreement.


   Products Sold Through Consignment  

Some types of product are commonly sold through consignment. These include clothing, athletic equipment, furniture, musical instruments, art, and jewelry.



For example, an artist might have five large pieces of artwork to sell but has no place to showcase the work for prospective buyers. The artist decides to employ an art gallery to show and sell their works of art. The gallery does not charge the artist a fee for the wall space but will charge a sales commission for any works sold, which is incorporated into the price.



Another example of consignment would be Bethany visiting her grandmother's house and finding an old case full of clothes from the 1940s. She keeps a few pieces that she likes and decides to sell the rest. She takes the clothes to a thrift store to sell the clothes on consignment. Bethany and the thrift store come to an agreement that Bethany will receive 60% of the revenues from the items sold while the thrift store will receive the remaining 40%. This business model is used by many second-hand stores.




What Does Consignment Mean?
Consignment is an arrangement in which goods are left in the possession of an authorized third party to sell. A consignment shop, for example, will sell items produced or supplied by someone else, and pay them a portion of the profit.




What Does "Consignment Only" Mean?
This is a phrase used by many second-hand shops. Consignment only refers to an arrangement where goods are placed in the care of store until the item is bought by a buyer. The owner of the goods — the consignor – retains ownership of the items until they sell.




Is Consignment Worth It?
It depends. Providing or producing products for sale by consignment can mean a far bigger audience for your goods, and more sales. On the other hand, you'll have to pay a commission fee if you make a sale, and this can be a significant proportion of the value of the product.


   The Bottom Line  

Consignment is an arrangement in which goods are left in the possession of an authorized third party to sell. A consignment shop, for example, will sell items produced or supplied by someone else, and pay them a portion of the profit. The party that sells the goods on consignment receives a portion of the profits, either as a flat rate fee or commission.



Selling via a consignment arrangement can be a low-commission, low-time-investment way of selling items or services, but can be costly. Items commonly sold by consignment include clothing, athletic equipment, furniture, musical instruments, art, and jewelry.
What Does It Mean to Consolidate?  

To consolidate (consolidation) is to combine assets, liabilities, and other financial items of two or more entities into one. In the context of financial accounting, the term consolidate often refers to the consolidation of financial statements wherein all subsidiaries report under the umbrella of a parent company. Consolidation also refers to the union of smaller companies into larger companies through mergers and acquisitions (M&A).





Key Takeaways

To consolidate (consolidation) is to combine assets, liabilities, and other financial items of two or more entities into one.In financial accounting, the term consolidate often refers to the consolidation of financial statements wherein all subsidiaries report under the umbrella of a parent company.Consolidation also refers to the union of smaller companies into larger companies through mergers and acquisitions.












Investopedia / Mira Norian


   How Consolidation Works  

The term consolidate comes from from the Latin consolidatus, which means "to combine into one body." Whatever the context, to consolidate involves bringing together some larger amount of items into a single, smaller number. For instance, a traveler may consolidate all of their luggage into a single, larger bag. In finance and accounting, consolidation has more specific nuance.


  Consolidation in Finance  

Consolidation involves taking multiple accounts or businesses and combining the information into a single point. In financial accounting, consolidated financial statements provide a comprehensive view of the financial position of both the parent company and its subsidiaries, rather than one company's stand-alone position.



In consolidated accounting, the information from a parent company and its subsidiaries are treated as though it comes from a single entity. The cumulative assets from the business, as well as any revenue or expenses, are recorded on the balance sheet of the parent company. This information is also reported on the income statement of the parent company.



Consolidated financial statements are used when the parent company holds a majority stake by controlling more than 50% of the subsidiary business. Parent companies that hold more than 20% qualify to use consolidated accounting. If a parent company holds less than a 20% stake, it must use equity method accounting.


  The Consolidation of Businesses  

In business, consolidation occurs when two or more businesses combine to form one new entity, with the expectation of increasing market share and profitability and the benefit of combining talent, industry expertise, or technology. Also referred to as amalgamation, consolidation can result in the creation of an entirely new business entity or a subsidiary of a larger firm. This approach may combine competing firms into one cooperative business.



For example, in 2015, Target Corp. moved to sell the pharmacy portion of its business to CVS Health, a major drugstore chain. As part of the agreement, CVS Health intended to rebrand the pharmacies operating within Target stores, changing the name to the MinuteClinic. The consolidation was friendly in nature and lessened overall competition in the pharmacy marketplace.



A consolidation differs in practical terms from a merger in that the consolidated companies may also result in a new entity, whereas in a merger, one company absorbs the other and remains in existence while the other is dissolved.


  Consumer Debt Consolidation  

Within the consumer market, consolidation includes using a single loan to pay off all of the debts that are part of the consolidation. This transfers the debt owed from multiple creditors, allowing the consumer to have a single point of payment to pay down the total.



Often, debt consolidation achieves more manageable monthly payments and may result in a lower overall interest rate. For instance, it may wrap a high-interest credit card payment into a more reasonable home equity line of credit.


  Consolidation in Technical Analysis and Trading  

Consolidation is also a technical analysis term referring to security prices oscillating within a corridor and is generally interpreted as market indecisiveness. Put another way, consolidation is used in technical analysis to describe the movement of a stock's price within a well-defined pattern of trading levels.



Consolidation is generally regarded as a period of indecision, which ends when the price of the asset moves above or below the prices in the trading pattern. The consolidation pattern in price movements is broken upon a major news release that materially affects a security's performance or the triggering of a succession of limit orders. Consolidation is also defined as a set of financial statements that presents a parent and a subsidiary company as one company.
What Is the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA)?  

The Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) is a landmark federal law, passed in 1985, that provides for continuing group health insurance coverage for some employees and their families after a job loss or other qualifying event.





Key Takeaways

The Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) allows many employees to stay on their employers' group health plans for a period of time after losing their jobs.Private-sector employers with more than 20 employees must generally provide the option for COBRA coverage.Employees must pay the full cost of the insurance, plus a small administrative premium.COBRA benefits generally last for a maximum of 18 months, but employers have the option of extending that period.


   Understanding the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA)  

The Consolidated Omnibus Budget Act (COBRA for short, or the COBRA Act as it is sometimes called, despite the redundancy) offers the continuation of medical coverage for workers who would otherwise lose their health insurance when they lose their employment. Basically, COBRA allows them to stay on their employer's group health plan, albeit at a greater cost. In addition to the employees themselves, COBRA can also provide health coverage to spouses, former spouses, and dependent children.






As part of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, the federal government will pay COBRA insurance premiums for individuals (and their covered relatives) who lost their job as a result of the coronavirus pandemic from April 1 through Sept. 30, 2021.



COBRA only applies to health plans offered by private-sector businesses and companies with more than 20 employees, as well as to state and local governments. It doesn't apply to plans offered by the federal government, churches, or some church-related organizations.



The events that may qualify an employee or their family for COBRA coverage include voluntary or involuntary job loss, reduction in hours worked, the death of the employee, or the divorce or legal separation of the employee and their spouse.



COBRA coverage generally lasts for a maximum of 18 months but may be extended to 36 months under certain circumstances. Employers also have the option of extending coverage for a longer period than COBRA requires.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of COBRA  

COBRA isn't free. Participants are often required to pay the full premium for their coverage—that is, both their share and the share that their employer might have previously paid—plus an administrative fee, for a total of up to 102% of the plan cost.



Because employers typically pay 72% to 83% of insurance premiums, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation's 2020 Employer Health Benefits Survey, opting for COBRA coverage often means an individual's out-of-pocket costs for coverage will rise substantially.



Though COBRA participants will generally pay more for their insurance than active employees will, COBRA may still be less expensive than buying an individual (non-group) health plan with comparable benefits, especially if the participant doesn't qualify for an Affordable Care Act subsidy.



The health coverage itself shouldn't change. In fact, as the U.S. Employee Benefits Security Administration notes, "If you elect continuation coverage, the coverage you are given must be identical to the coverage currently available under the plan to similarly situated active employees and their families (generally, this is the same coverage that you had immediately before the qualifying event).


   Special Considerations  

Group health plans are required to make employees aware of their eligibility for COBRA coverage after a layoff or other qualifying event. COBRA coverage is typically available to full-time (and some part-time) employees if their companies' group health plan was in effect in the prior year.



Eligibility for COBRA coverage generally begins the day after an employee is terminated or experiences another qualifying event. Employees must be given at least 60 days to decide whether to accept or decline the coverage. If the employee elects to take COBRA coverage, the employer will sometimes make the first payment. After that, it's the participant's responsibility to pay the premiums to keep the coverage in effect.



Companies that do not offer group health benefits to their employees are exempt from offering COBRA coverage. Similarly, companies that are going out of business typically do not have to adhere to COBRA’s requirements, with certain exceptions for retirees that are covered under a company plan at the time of bankruptcy. COBRA coverage can also be denied under certain circumstances, such as when employees were fired for misconduct that was related to their jobs.



In addition to the federal regulations, many states have their own laws that govern the continuation of health coverage after a qualifying event. For example, while federal COBRA generally applies to firms with more than 20 employees, some states mandate COBRA coverage to firms with as few as two workers.
What Is Consolidation?  

Consolidation in technical analysis refers to an asset oscillating between a well-defined pattern of trading levels. Consolidation is generally interpreted as market indecisiveness, which ends when the asset's price moves above or below the trading pattern. In financial accounting, consolidation is defined as a set of statements that presents (consolidates) a parent and subsidiary company as one company.





Key Takeaways

Consolidation is a technical analysis term used to describe a stock's price movement within a given support and resistance range for a period of time.It is generally caused due to trader indecisiveness.A consolidation pattern could be broken for several reasons, such as the release of materially important news or the triggering of a succession of limit orders.Accounting-wise, consolidated financial statements are used by analysts to evaluate parent and subsidiary companies as a single company.


   Understanding Consolidation  

Periods of consolidation can be found in price charts for any time interval, and these periods can last for days, weeks, or months. Technical traders look for support and resistance levels in price charts and then use these levels to make buy and sell decisions. A consolidation pattern could be broken for several reasons, such as the release of materially important news or the triggering of a succession of limit orders.


   Consolidation: Support vs. Resistance  

The lower and upper bounds of an asset's price create the support and resistance levels within a consolidation pattern. A resistance level is the top end of the price pattern, while the support level is the lower end.



Once the price breaks through the identified areas of support or resistance, volatility quickly increases, and so does the opportunity for short-term traders to generate a profit. Technical traders believe a breakout above resistance means the price will climb further, so the trader buys. On the other hand, a breakout below the support level indicates the price is falling even lower, and the trader sells.


   Accounting Consolidation  

In financial accounting, consolidated financial statements are used to present a parent and subsidiary company as one combined company. A parent company may own a majority percentage of a subsidiary, with a non-controlling interest (NCI) owning the remainder. Or the parent may own the entire subsidiary, with no other firm holding ownership.



To create consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary are adjusted to fair market value, and those values are used in the combined financial statements. If the parent and NCI pay more than the fair market value of the net assets (assets minus liabilities), the excess amount is posted to a goodwill asset account, and goodwill is moved into an expense account over time.



A consolidation eliminates any transactions between the parent and subsidiary, or between the subsidiary and the NCI. The consolidated financials only includes transactions with third parties, and each of the companies continues to produce separate financial statements.


   Example of Accounting Consolidation  

Assume XYZ Corporation buys 100% of the net assets of ABC Manufacturing for a price of $1 million, and the fair market value of ABC's net assets is $700,000. When an accounting firm puts together the consolidated financial statements, ABC's net assets are listed with a value of $700,000, and the $300,000 amount paid above the fair market value is posted to a goodwill asset account.
What Is a Construction Loan?  

A construction loan (also known as a “self-build loan") is a short-term loan used to finance the building of a home or another real estate project. The builder or home buyer takes out a construction loan to cover the costs of the project before obtaining long-term funding. Because they are considered relatively risky, construction loans usually have higher interest rates than traditional mortgage loans.


   How a Construction Loan Works  

Construction loans are usually taken out by builders or a homebuyer custom-building their own home. They are short-term loans, usually for a period of only one year. After construction of the house is complete, the borrower can either refinance the construction loan into a permanent mortgage or obtain a new loan to pay off the construction loan (sometimes called the “end loan”). The borrower might only be required to make interest payments on a construction loan while the project is still underway. Some construction loans may require the balance to be paid off entirely by the time the project is complete.



If a construction loan is taken out by a borrower who wants to build a home, the lender might pay the funds directly to the contractor rather than to the borrower. The payments may come in installments as the project completes new stages of development. Construction loans can be taken out to finance rehabilitation and restoration projects as well as to build new homes.






Construction loans can allow a borrower to build the home of their dreams, but—due to the risks involved—they have higher interest rates and larger down payments than traditional mortgages.


   Special Considerations for Construction Loans  

Most lenders require a 20% minimum down payment on a construction loan, and some require as much as 25%. Borrowers may face difficulty securing a construction loan, particularly if they have a limited credit history. There may be a shortage of collateral because the home is not yet built posing a challenge in seeking approval from a lender. To gain approval for a construction loan, the borrower will need to give the lender a comprehensive list of construction details (also known as a “blue book”). The borrower will also have to prove that a qualified builder is involved in the project.



Construction loans are usually offered by local credit unions or regional banks. Local banks tend to be familiar with the housing market in their area and are more comfortable making home construction loans to borrowers in their community.


   Construction Loans vs. Owner-Builder Construction Loans  

Borrowers who intend to act as their own general contractor or build the home with their own resources are unlikely to qualify for a construction loan. These borrowers will have to take out a variant called an owner-builder construction loan. It can be difficult to qualify for these loans. Therefore, potential borrowers must offer a well-researched construction plan that convincingly lays out their home-building knowledge and abilities. The borrower should also include a contingency fund for unexpected surprises.


   Example of a Construction Loan  

Jane Doe decides that she can build her new house for a total of $500,000 and secures a one-year construction loan from her local bank for that amount. They agree on a drawdown schedule for the loan.



In the first month, only $50,000 is required to cover costs, so Jane takes only that amount—and pays interest only on that amount—saving money. Jane continues to take funds as they are needed, guided by the drawdown schedule. She pays interest only on the total that she has drawn down rather than paying interest on the whole $500,000 for the entire term of the loan. At the end of the year, she refinances with her local bank the total amount of funds she has used into a mortgage for her dream home.
What Is Consumer Credit in Financial Services?  

Consumer credit, or consumer debt, is personal debt taken on to purchase goods and services. Although any type of personal loan could be labeled consumer credit, the term is more often used to describe unsecured debt of smaller amounts.



A credit card is one type of consumer credit in finance, but a mortgage is not considered consumer credit because it is backed with the property as collateral. Learn more about the different types of consumer credit.





Key Takeaways

Consumer credit is credit issued to individuals that is not collateralized.Installment credit is provided in a lump sum and then repaid in regular installments over a set period of time.Revolving credit is an open-ended loan that may be reused indefinitely as you pay the balance.One risk with revolving credit is that interest can compound if you don't pay off the entire balances every month.


   Types of Consumer Credit in Finance  

Consumer credit in finance is extended by lenders to enable consumers to make purchases immediately and pay off the balance over time with interest. It is broadly divided into two classifications: installment credit and revolving credit.


  Installment Credit  

Installment credit is a loan of a defined amount issued in a lump sum, and is then repaid for a set period of time. Payments are usually made monthly in equal installments.



Installment credit can be used for a variety of reasons, including major purchases such as major appliances, cars, and furniture. Installment credit usually offers lower interest rates than revolving credit. In some cases,


  Revolving Credit  

Revolving credit, which includes credit cards, may be used for any purchase. The credit is "revolving" in the sense that the line of credit remains open and can be used up to the maximum limit repeatedly, as long as the borrower keeps paying a minimum monthly payment on time.



It may, in fact, never be paid off in full as the consumer pays the minimum and allows the remaining debt to accumulate interest from month to month. Revolving credit is available at a relatively high interest rate because it is not secured by collateral.






   How Consumer Credit in Finance Works  

Consumer credit use reflects the portion of a family or individual's spending that goes to goods and services that depreciate quickly. It includes necessities such as food and discretionary purchases such as cosmetics or dry cleaning services.



Consumer credit use from month to month is closely measured by economists because it is considered an indicator of economic growth or contraction.



If consumers overall are willing to borrow and confident they can repay their debts on time, the economy gets a boost. If consumers cut back on their spending, they are indicating concerns about their own financial stability in the near future. The economy will contract.


  Advantages of Consumer Credit  

Consumer credit allows consumers to get an advance on income to buy products and services. In an emergency, such as a car breakdown, consumer credit can help you get the funds you need.



Credit cards are a commonly accepted form of payment, so using this type of revolving credit can be convenient. Banks and financial institutions, department stores, and many other businesses offer consumer credit. Many credit cards also provide rewards such as cash back or travel points.


  Disadvantages of Consumer Credit  

The main disadvantage of using revolving consumer credit is the cost to consumers who fail to pay off their entire balances every month and continue to accrue additional interest charges from month to month.



The average annual percentage rate on all credit cards was 23.24% as of February 2023. A single late payment can boost the cardholder's interest rate even higher.




Do Installment Loans Hurt Your Credit?
You credit can be affected by an installment loan. It can hurt your credit if you do not make your payments on time. If you make all your payments on time, an installment loan can help you establish history as a responsible borrower.




What Is a Disadvantage of Revolving Credit?
If you don't use revolving credit like credit cards responsibly, you can potentially face financial hardship. If you don't make your minimum payments on time, your credit score will likely decline. And if you spend more than you can afford to pay back, your debt can quickly compound with interest.




What Are Examples of Consumer Credit?
Examples of consumer credit include credit cards, car loans, personal loans, student loans, mobile home loans, and home improvement loans, Consumer credit is smaller loans issued to individuals that does not have collateral. So a mortgage is not considered to be an example of consumer credit.


   The Bottom Line  

Consumer credit can be a valuable financial tool to help you make purchases to pay off over time so you can maintain cash flow. If you don't use consumer credit responsibly, your credit score could suffer. Understanding how each type of consumer credit works is key to helping you establish good credit history.
What Is Consumer Discretionary?  

Consumer discretionary is a term that describes goods and services that consumers consider non-essential but desirable if their available income is sufficient to purchase them.



Examples of consumer discretionary products and services can include durable goods, high-end apparel, entertainment, leisure activities, and automobiles.               



Companies that supply these types of goods and services are usually either called consumer discretionaries or consumer cyclicals.



The consumer discretionary sector of the economy encompasses various industries, the companies of which produce consumer discretionary products. Individuals can focus their investing on this sector by buying consumer discretionary stocks, mutual funds, and ETFs.





Key Takeaways

Consumer discretionary is an economic sector classification of non-essential consumer goods and services.The sector, its industries, and individual companies are watched by analysts and investors as an indicator of economic growth or slowdown.Consumers tend to spend more on consumer discretionary products in economic growth phases, when they may have more disposable income.Spending on consumer discretionary products slows in a weak economy.Consumer discretionary can be contrasted with consumer staples, which is a sector comprised of industries/companies that produce products essential to daily needs.


   Understanding Consumer Discretionary  

The purchase of consumer discretionary products is often compared with the purchase of consumer staples. Both product classifications are influenced by cycles of the economy.



In general, when the economy is strong, consumers earn more and spend more on consumer discretionary products. On the other hand, when an economy is contracting, consumers usually earn less and focus their spending more on products essential to their needs. These are known as consumer staples, also referred to as consumer defensive.



Economic cycles have a big influence on earnings power and consumer spending in an economy. There are four stages of an economic cycle. They are defined as expansion, peak, contraction, and trough.



A growing economy—expansion to peak—is usually characterized by stronger earnings for businesses and consumers. This coincides with more spending. A contracting economy—contraction to trough—generally has the opposite effect. That is, weaker earnings and less spending.



When an economy is growing, it is usually expected that consumers will have more disposable income to spend on discretionary items. They'll be less concerned with saving for tough times. This leads to a greater demand for consumer discretionary products.



Alternatively, in a weakening or weak economy, consumers are more likely to forego the purchases of non-essential consumer discretionary products in favor of adding to their savings.



These consumers, however, still need to buy consumer staples—such essential and basic household items as toilet paper, paper towels, food, beverages, and gas. 


   Consumer Discretionary and Economic Indicators  

There are several economic indicators that help economists to determine the state of an economy. These indicators are also important for predicting trends for the consumer discretionary and consumer staples sectors.


  GDP  

Typically, gross domestic product (GDP) is the number one metric for analyzing an economy. When GDP is growing, it indicates a strengthening economy where people and businesses are willing to spend more. Conversely, when GDP is decreasing, it is an indication of economic contraction and the need for spending prudence.


  Consumer Confidence  

Consumer confidence can also be relevant. The consumer confidence indicator can shed light on future consumption and saving behaviors of households. This insight is tied to answers households provide when surveyed about their expected financial circumstances. It's also based on how they feel about economic conditions and unemployment.



Typically in a weakening economy, consumer confidence declines and consumers tighten their belts.



For example, they may postpone vacations and delay the purchase of products that aren't essential for daily living. These products might include high-end clothing, big-screen televisions, and expensive new cars.



The reduced demand for consumer discretionary products is usually a precursor of lower sales for the companies that produce these products. Lower sales can lead to worsening economic conditions and greater economic contraction.





Consumer Confidence Index

As of December 2022, the CCI was 108.3, up from 101.4 in November. A level above 100 indicates increasing consumer confidence. This means that they'll most likely save less and instead make major purchases in the following 12 months. Levels below 100 point to a pessimistic outlook for the economy. This may result in greater saving and less spending.


  Consumer Spending  

The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) releases a monthly report on personal income and outlays. It includes consumer income and spending figures. The latter is known as personal consumption expenditures (PCE). The report also includes the Personal Consumption Expenditures Price Index (PCEPI), a gauge of price inflation that is closely followed by the Federal Reserve (Fed).



The report documents the spending behavior of consumers. In growth phases, personal income and personal spending tends to increase, leading to more purchases of consumer discretionary products. During contractions, personal income and personal spending are usually lower and spending on consumer discretionary products decreases.


  Interest Rates  

Interest rates can be an interesting metric to follow during all types of economic cycles. In general, interest rates rise in growth phases and fall during contractions. The level of interest rates is important for companies that tap the credit markets for business funding. U.S. monetary policy usually seeks to lower interest rates in contractionary phases to provide a business stimulus.


  Other Indicators  

Other closely followed indicators that can indicate consumer discretionary trends include the following:



Retail salesNon-farm payrollsUnemployment levelsLabor market hoursLabor market earningsManufacturing activityServices activityHome salesBuilding construction activity


   Consumer Discretionaries vs. Consumer Staples  

When an economy is growing, many sectors see stock values increase and this can make equities attractive. The higher values are due to increasing profits and more discretionary consumer income.


  Consumer Discretionaries  

Often, when signs of economic growth or recovery begin to appear, consumer discretionary stocks will lead an upward move in stock market prices.Investors who believe a positive spending trend is taking shape may find consumer discretionary stocks a good investment opportunity.However, consumer discretionary companies can be sensitive to changes in economic activity and spending behavior.


  Consumer Staples  

When an economy is contracting, investors may find consumer staples stocks a solid investment choice.That's because companies in this sector produce and sell products that consumers need and buy, no matter the economic climate.Consumer staples stocks may even present attractive investment opportunities during a recession.






The stock shares of consumer discretionary companies tend to lead a general stock market decline at the beginning of a contraction.


   Investing in Consumer Discretionaries  
  Consumer Discretionary ETFs  

Many investors like to put their money into sector exchange-traded funds (ETFs) to navigate through different types of economic cycles. ETFs can limit risks with broadened diversification, while allowing for the concentration of investment positions.



For the consumer discretionary sector, State Street Global Advisors (SSGA) offers one of the market’s top options.



The Consumer Discretionary Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLY) includes the S&P 500’s consumer discretionary stocks. Its top five holdings, as of January 2023, were the following:



Amazon (AMZN)
Tesla (TSLA)
Home Depot (HD)
NIKE (NKE)
McDonald's (MCD)



For those interested in the consumer staples sector, the SSGA offers the Consumer Staples Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLP). It includes the S&P 500’s consumer staples stocks. Its top five holdings, as of January 2023, were the following:



Procter & Gamble (PG)
PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)
Coca-Cola (KO)
Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)
Philip Morris International (PM)


  Consumer Discretionary Stocks  

The demand for consumer discretionary stocks normally increases or decreases as the economy grows or weakens. And since consumers typically purchase non-essential goods when they have discretionary income, anything else that threatens that income, such as lower wages or increasing prices, may also affect stock values.



Here are several widely recognized consumer discretionary stocks, in addition to those mentioned above,



Toyota Motor Corp. (TM)
HIlton Worldwide Holdings (HLT)
H&R Block (HRB)
Autozone Inc. (AZO)
Macy's (M)
Thor Industries (THO)


  Consumer Discretionary Industries  

The consumer discretionary sector consists of a variety of industries that can be sensitive to changing economic conditions and bellwethers of consumer spending. The companies included in these industries react and adjust to changes in consumer discretionary income and purchases of non-essential products and services.



Industry performance is a useful gauge of trends in consumer spending. Consumer discretionary industries tend to thrive when people feel confident about income and spending is strong.



The consumer discretionary sector's manufacturing segment includes automotive, household durable goods, textiles & apparel and leisure equipment. The services segment includes hotels, restaurants and leisure facilities, media production and related services, and consumer retailing and services.



Here are the industries in the consumer discretionary sector.



Auto ComponentsAutomobilesDistributorsDiversified Consumer ServicesHotels, Restaurants & LeisureHousehold DurablesInternet & Direct Marketing RetailLeisure ProductsMultiline RetailSpecialty RetailTextiles, Apparel & Luxury Goods




What Does "Consumer Discretionary" Refer to?
The term describes products and services that are desirable for consumers, but not essential to their daily living. In other words, rather than having to buy these products because they are necessities, they have the freedom to decide—the discretion—to purchase them, or not. Consumer discretionary purchasing usually increases when consumers have more money to spend.




How Do Consumer Staples Relate to Consumer Discretionaries?
While consumer discretionary products are non-essential items that consumers typically can choose to buy when money is plentiful, consumer staples are items that consumers feel are essential to their daily living. These are such things as toilet paper, food, beverages, medicine, toothpaste, and gas. People reduce spending on consumer discretionaries and focus on consumer staples as the economy weakens




What Are Some Examples of Consumer Discretionary Companies?
Some of the companies in consumer discretionary industries include Amazon.com Inc., Starbucks, Ford Motor Company, eBay, Tractor Supply Company, McDonald's, The Home Depot, Marriott International, and Domino's Pizza.




How Can I Invest in Consumer Discretionary Companies?
You can buy the stocks of companies found in the various industries within the consumer discretionary sector. For convenience and diversification purposes, you can buy a mutual fund that invests in them, such as the Vanguard Consumer Discretionary Index Fund Admiral Shares. Additionally, you can purchase an exchange-traded fund that follows the sector, such as the Consumer Discretionary Select Sector SPDR® Fund.


   The Bottom Line  

The term "consumer discretionary" refers to non-essential products and services that consumers tend to purchase when the economy is strong, consumer confidence is positive, and individuals have discretionary income to spend.



The consumer discretionary sector of the economy consists of manufacturing and services industries with consumer discretionary companies. Normally, these companies and their industries are sensitive to changing economic conditions.
What Are Consumer Goods?  

Consumer goods are products bought for consumption by the average consumer. Also called final goods, consumer goods are the end result of production and manufacturing. Clothing, food products, and dishwashers are examples of common consumer goods.



The Consumer Product Safety Act of 1972 regulates the sale of most common consumer goods and created the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, a group of five appointed officials who oversee the safety of products and issue necessary recalls of faulty consumer products.





Key Takeaways

Consumer goods, or final goods, are goods sold to consumers for their use or enjoyment.Consumer goods can be classified as durable, nondurable, or service goods.Consumer goods are categorized based on consumer behavior and marketed by type of good, such as a convenience product or specialty item.


   Types of Consumer Goods  

• Durable goods are consumer goods that have a life span of over three years and are used repeatedly over time. Bicycles and refrigerators are considered durable goods.



• Nondurable goods are consumed in less than three years, are commonly used one time and include packaged food and drinks or laundry detergent.



• Service goods include items like auto repairs and haircuts that are intangible consumer goods.





Product Recall

A product recall is a request to return, exchange, or replace a product after a manufacturer or consumer watch group discovers defects that affect product performance or harm consumers.


   Marketing Consumer Goods  

How the consumer views and uses a product determines the way companies market their goods.



• Convenience goods are those that are regularly consumed and are readily available for purchase. They are often nondurable goods and low-priced items sold by wholesalers and retailers. Examples of convenience goods include milk and tobacco products.



• Shopping goods are those items bought less frequently, are durable, and are commonly more expensive than convenience goods. Examples of shopping goods include furniture and televisions.



• Specialty consumer goods are rare and often considered luxury purchases. They are often marketed by brand or geared to a niche market. Sports cars and fine art are examples of specialty consumer goods.



• Unsought consumer goods are readily available but not often sought by the consumer. Although they may be necessary purchases, they require marketing to consumers to nudge a purchase. Examples of unsought consumer goods include life insurance and pre-paid funeral expenses.




What Are Fast Moving Consumer Goods?
Fast-moving consumer goods include nondurable goods like food and drinks that move rapidly through the supply chain from producers to distributors and retailers to consumers. Companies and retailers like this segment as it offers high shelf-space turnover opportunities.




What Is the Consumer Goods Sector?
Consumer goods are considered a sector for investment. Investors can purchase shares of funds which include companies that produce consumer goods. The largest consumer goods ETF is the iShares U.S. Consumer Staples ETF (IYK). With 58 stock holdings and $954 million in net assets under management (AUM) as of February 2022, the fund's top holdings are Procter & Gamble, Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, Philip Morris, and CVS.




What Is the Difference Between Capital Goods and Consumers Goods?
Capital goods, such as buildings, machinery, equipment, vehicles, and tools, are physical assets that a company uses in the production process to manufacture products and services that consumers will later use. Capital goods are not finished goods but are used to make finished goods. Consumer goods are those used by consumers and have no future productive use.




Which Companies Rank as Most Trusted for Consumer Goods in the U.S.?
Hasbro, Yeti, and Proctor & Gamble are the top three ranked companies in 2022 for consumer goods in a survey conducted by Edelman Research.




How Has E-Commerce Affected Demand for Consumer Goods?
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Americans spent $791.7 billion during 2020 on e-commerce for consumer goods, up 32.4% from 2019, largely in part due to the COVID-19 pandemic with categories like groceries, sporting goods, and home improvement items on the rise using e-commerce platforms.


   The Bottom Line  

A consumer good, or final good, is the end product a business produces that is purchased by a consumer. Consumer goods can be classified as durable, non-durable, or services. Marketing of consumer goods depends upon the use, price, and features of the item. The Consumer Product Safety Act of 1972 and the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission ensure that consumer protections are in place for the goods that are available on the market.
What Are Consumer Packaged Goods?  

Consumer packaged goods (CPG) are items used daily by average consumers that require routine replacement or replenishment, such as food, beverages, clothes, tobacco, makeup, and household products.



While consumer demand for CPGs largely remains constant, this is nevertheless a highly competitive sector, due to high market saturation and low consumer switching costs, where consumers can easily and cheaply switch their brand loyalties.


   Understanding Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG)  

Despite experiencing a slow-down in growth over recent years, the CPG industry is still one of the largest sectors in North America, valued at approximately $2 trillion, led by well-established companies like Coca-Cola, Procter & Gamble, and L'Oréal. Although CPG makers generally enjoy healthy margins and robust balance sheets, they must continuously fight for shelf space in stores, and they must ceaselessly invest in advertising, in an ongoing effort to increase brand recognition and stimulate sales.





Key Takeaways

Consumer packaged goods (CPG) are items used daily by average consumers that require routine replacement or replenishment, such as food, beverages, clothes, tobacco, makeup, and household products.Despite experiencing a slow-down in growth over recent years, the CPG industry is still one of the largest sectors in North America, valued at approximately $2 trillion, led by well-established companies like Coca-Cola, Procter & Gamble, and L'Oréal. 


   Consumer Packaged Goods vs. Durable Goods  

CPGs generally have short lifespans and are intended to be used quickly. And as the name implies, CPGs are traditionally packaged in easily-recognizable wrapping that consumers can quickly identify.



Like most CPGs, cosmetics typically have limited shelf lives, as these products quickly deteriorate if exposed to extreme temperature fluctuations. Lipstick, blush, eye shadow, and foundation are cheaply sold in individual packages, and after using the products, consumers either discard or recycle the empty vessels.



Frozen dinners are another popular CPG example. These high-volume perishable items are sold at retailers worldwide and are often purchased for immediate use by consumers who automatically replenish their favorite go-to frozen meals, with little deliberation.



Unlike CPGs, which are cheaply sold and replaced often, durable goods like automobiles are intended to last for several years and enjoyed for extended use. Consequently, the purchase of a durable good typically involves considerable thought and substantial comparison shopping, given the higher price-tags attached to these investments.



Economic slumps often trigger flagging durable goods sales because people are more likely to hold onto their cash in times of economic uncertainty. This is especially true with consumers who own older versions of a durable goods product. A family may opt to squeeze a few more years from an outmoded washing machine, rather than upgrade to a newer model. By contrast, sales of CPG staples like bread, milk, and toothpaste are less affected by market fluctuations.


   Special Considerations: CPGs in the Digital Age  

Although CPGs have typically been sold in traditional brick-and-mortar stores, consumers are increasingly turning to online retailers. Making purchases with the "click and collect" model, consumers receive text message confirmations that their delivery is en route. Amazon’s business services like Prime Pantry let customers buy CPGs and enjoy next-day delivery.
What Is the Consumer Price Index (CPI)?  

The Consumer Price Index (CPI) measures the monthly change in prices paid by U.S. consumers. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) calculates the CPI as a weighted average of prices for a basket of goods and services representative of aggregate U.S. consumer spending.



The CPI is one of the most popular measures of inflation and deflation. The CPI report uses a different survey methodology, price samples, and index weights than the producer price index (PPI), which measures changes in the prices received by U.S. producers of goods and services.





Key Takeaways

The Consumer Price Index measures the overall change in consumer prices based on a representative basket of goods and services over time.The CPI is the most widely used measure of inflation, closely followed by policymakers, financial markets, businesses, and consumers.The widely quoted CPI is based on an index covering 93% of the U.S. population, while a related index covering wage earners and clerical workers is used for cost-of-living adjustments to federal benefits.The CPI is based on about 80,000 price quotes collected monthly from some 23,000 retail and service establishments as well as 50,000 rental housing units.Housing rents are used to estimate the change in shelter costs including owner-occupied housing that accounts for about a third of the CPI.


   Understanding the Consumer Price Index (CPI)  

The BLS collects about 80,000 prices monthly from some 23,000 retail and service establishments. Although the two CPI indexes calculated from the data both contain the word urban, the more broad-based and widely cited of the two covers 93% of the U.S. population.



Shelter category prices accounting for a third of the overall CPI are based on a survey of rental prices for 50,000 housing units, which is then used to calculate the rise in rental prices as well as owners' equivalents.



The owners' equivalent category models the rent equivalent for owner-occupied housing to properly reflect housing costs' share of consumer spending. User fees and sales or excise taxes are included, while income taxes and the prices of investments such as stocks, bonds, or life insurance policies are not part of the CPI.



The calculation of the CPI indexes from the data factors in substitution effects—consumers' tendency to shift spending away from products and categories has grown relatively more expensive. It also adjusts price data for changes in product quality and features. The weighting of the product and service categories in the CPI indexes corresponds to recent consumer spending patterns derived from a separate survey.






The CPI-U increased 3.7% over the 12-month period ending Aug. 2023. The index increased 0.6% from the previous month.


   Types of Consumer Price Indexes (CPIs)  

The BLS publishes two indexes each month. The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) represents 93% of the U.S. population not living in remote rural areas. It doesn't cover spending by people living in farm households, institutions, or on military bases. CPI-U is the basis of the widely reported CPI numbers that matter to financial markets.The BLS also publishes the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W). The CPI-W covers 29% of the U.S. population living in households with income derived predominantly from clerical employment or jobs with an hourly wage.



CPI-W is used to adjust Social Security payments as well as other federal benefits and pensions for changes in the cost of living. It also shifts federal income tax brackets to ensure taxpayers aren't subjected to a higher marginal rate as a result of inflation.


   Consumer Price Index (CPI) Formulas  

The more common CPI-U calculation entails two primary formulas. The first is used to determine the current cost of the weighted-average basket of products, while the second is used to analyze the year-over-year change.


  Annual CPI Formula  

To calculate the annual CPI, the BLS divides the value of a specific basket of goods today compared to one year ago:










Annual CPI


=



Value of Basket in Current Year


Value of Basket in Prior Year



×


100







\begin{aligned}\text{Annual CPI}=\frac{\text{Value of Basket in Current Year}}{\text{Value of Basket in Prior Year}}\times 100\end{aligned}


Annual CPI=Value of Basket in Prior YearValue of Basket in Current Year​×100​

As mentioned earlier, the basket of goods and services used in the CPI calculation is a composite of popular items commonly purchased by Americans. The weight of each component of the basket is in proportion to how they are sold. The annual CPI is reported as a whole number, and the figure is often greater than 100 (assuming current market prices are appreciating).
Then, the BLS uses the current year's CPI and the prior year's CPI to calculate the inflation rate.










Inflation Rate


=




New CPI


−


Prior CPI



Prior CPI



×


100







\begin{aligned}\text{Inflation Rate} = \frac{\text{New CPI} - \text{Prior CPI}}{\text{Prior CPI}}\times100\end{aligned}


Inflation Rate=Prior CPINew CPI−Prior CPI​×100​

The inflation rate can be calculated for a given month or annual period; in either case, the appropriate new and prior period must be selected. The inflation rate is reported as a percentage and is often positive (assuming current market prices are appreciating).












Investopedia / Maddy Price


   Consumer Price Index (CPI) Categories  

The monthly CPI release from the BLS leads with the change from the prior month for the overall CPI-U as well as its key subcategories, along with the unadjusted change year-over-year. The BLS detailed tables show price changes for a variety of goods and services organized by eight umbrella spending categories.



Subcategories estimate price changes for everything from tomatoes and salad dressing to auto repairs and sporting events tickets. Price change for each subcategory is provided with and without seasonal adjustment.



In addition to the national CPI indexes, BLS publishes CPI data for U.S. regions, sub-regions, and major metropolitan areas. The metro data is subject to wider fluctuations and is useful mainly for identifying price changes based on local conditions.



The table below represents the CPI basket weighted distribution amongst the eight major expense categories. Be mindful that some subcategories may be difficult to spot within their major categories. For example, automobiles are classified under commodities.









CPI Categories by Weight




Group
Weight


Food
13.4%


Energy
7.0%


All Items Less Food & Energy
79.6%


Total
100%



Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics


   How Is the Consumer Price Index (CPI) Used?  

The CPI is widely used by financial market participants to gauge inflation and by the Federal Reserve to calibrate its monetary policy. Businesses and consumers also use the CPI to make informed economic decisions. Since CPI measures the change in consumers' purchasing power, it is often a key factor in pay negotiations. 


  The Federal Reserve  

The Fed uses CPI data to determine economic policy. With a target inflation rate of 2%, the Fed may enact expansionary monetary policy to stimulate the economy should market growth slow, or enact contractionary monetary policy should the economy (and therefore prices) grow too quickly. In response to higher-than-desired inflation rates via the CPI, the Fed adjusts the Fed funds rate.


  Other Government Agencies  

The cost-of-living adjustments (COLAs) based on the CPI affect federal payments to the approximately 70 million Americans receiving Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits. They also apply to federal pension payments, school lunch subsidies, and income tax brackets.


  Housing  

Mortgage rates (and other forms of long-term debt) are often impacted by rates set by government agencies. As the CPI increases and the government enacts policy changes to slow inflation, rates often increase. On the other hand, landlords may use CPI information to adequately assess what annual rent increases for renters should be.


  Financial Markets  

Financial market prices are driven by countless factors. One such factor is the CPI, as reactionary Fed policies directly impact economic growth, corporate profits, and consumer spending ability.



A higher CPI often means that a less stringent government policy is generally in place. This means that debt is often easier to obtain for cheaper and that individuals have greater spending capacity. On the other hand, lower or decreasing CPI may indicate that the government may ease policy that helps boost the economy.


  Labor Markets  

The CPI and its components are also used as a deflator for other economic indicators, including retail sales and hourly/weekly earnings, to separate fundamental change from that reflecting change in prices. Employees may turn to CPI reports when approaching their employers for a raise based on nationwide increases in labor rates as well as pricing.



Be mindful that the CPI is published using national data; employees may be more suited to using local data to better understand their specific situation. In addition, some workers covered by collective bargaining agreements may have their wages tied to changes in CPI.






The BLS reports the CPI on a fixed, monthly cadence. A schedule of prior and future releases can be found on the BLS website, and the CPI is always released at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time.


   Consumer Price Index (CPI) vs. Unemployment  

In the broadest sense, the CPI and unemployment rates are often inversely related. This is not always the case in every economy, but the Federal Reserve often attempts to decrease one metric while balancing the other. For example, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve took unprecedented supervisory and regulatory actions to stimulate the economy.



As a result, the labor market strengthened and returned to pre-pandemic rates by March 2022; however, this stimulus has resulted in the highest CPI calculations in decades.



As a result of higher-than-targeted CPI calculations, the Federal Reserve began raising interest rates and tapering certain asset purchases. On one hand, these measures aim to slow economic growth, make it more expensive for consumers to acquire debt, and stem monetary supply growth.



On the other hand, these additional expenses may burden households and make companies less profitable. All else being equal when the Federal Reserve attempts to lower the CPI, it runs the risk of unintentionally increasing unemployment rates.


   Critiques of Consumer Price Index (CPI) Methodology  

Because the CPI Index is so crucial to economic policy and decision-making, its methodology has long been controversial, drawing claims it either understates or overstates inflation. A panel of economists commissioned by Congress to study the issue in 1995 concluded the CPI overstated inflation and was followed by calculation changes to better reflect substitution effects.



More recently, critics have claimed that adjustments for changes in product quality and features understate the CPI. According to the BLS, the particularly controversial hedonic adjustments, which use regression techniques to adjust prices for new features on a relatively small proportion of the CPI items, have a net effect close to zero on the index.



As the traditional CPI-U calculation only measures inflation for urban populations, it remains a less-than-reliable source of data for individuals living in rural areas. In addition, the CPI does not explicitly state how different demographics may be impacted by inflation. For example, soaring education costs may adversely impact younger individuals, while the impact of increasing elderly care costs is felt by a different group of individuals.



This notion is also widely attributable to individuals with varying degrees of income. For example, lower-income individuals who contribute more gross income towards necessities of shelter and food will skew differently than households with larger disposable income. For this reason, the CPI may not adequately reflect each individual's experience in regard to costs and changes over time.




What Is the Current CPI?
The annual change in the CPI was 3.7% for the 12-month period ending Aug. 2023. The index increased 0.6% from the previous month.




How Is the Consumer Price Index Used?
The CPI Index is an inflation indicator closely watched by policymakers and financial markets. A related CPI measure is used to calculate cost-of-living adjustments for federal benefit payments.




How Is the CPI Calculated?
The Bureau of Labor Statistics samples 80,000 prices monthly to calculate the CPI, weighing the index for each product or service in proportion to its share of recent consumer spending to calculate the overall change in prices. The calculation also factors in the substitution effect as consumers shift spending away from the products rising in price on a relative basis. The CPI also adjusts for changes in product quality and features. The numbers are provided with and without seasonal adjustments.




What Are Some Criticisms of the CPI?
Over the years, the CPI has frequently drawn criticism that it has either understated or overstated inflation. Because the CPI is based on consumer spending, it doesn't track third-party reimbursements for healthcare and significantly underweights healthcare relative to its proportion in the GDP as a result. On the other hand, criticism concerning the quality adjustments used in the CPI has been widely discounted by economists.


   The Bottom Line  

The Consumer Price Index is an important economic metric. It measures the average change in prices paid by consumers over a period of time for a basket of goods and services. The index is calculated and published monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. It is among the most common measures of inflation, indicating the health and direction of the economy. It also serves in other capacities, notably to help make adjustments to certain income payments, such as Social Security and pensions for federal civil service retirees.
What Is Consumer Surplus?  

Consumer surplus is an economic measurement of consumer benefits resulting from market competition. A consumer surplus happens when the price that consumers pay for a product or service is less than the price they're willing to pay. It's a measure of the additional benefit that consumers receive because they're paying less for something than what they were willing to pay.



Consumer surplus may be compared with producer surplus.





Key Takeaways

A consumer surplus happens when the price consumers pay for a product or service is less than the price they're willing to pay.Consumer surplus is based on the economic theory of marginal utility, which is the additional satisfaction a consumer gains from one more unit of a good or service.Consumer surplus always increases as the price of a good falls and decreases as the price of a good rises.It is depicted visually by economists as the triangular area under the demand curve between the market price and what consumers would be willing to pay.Consumer surplus plus producer surplus equals the total economic surplus.












Investopedia / Crea Taylor


   Understanding Consumer Surplus  

The concept of consumer surplus was developed in 1844 to measure the social benefits of public goods such as national highways, canals, and bridges. It has been an important tool in the field of welfare economics and the formulation of tax policies by governments.



Consumer surplus is based on the economic theory of marginal utility, which is the additional satisfaction a consumer gains from one more unit of a good or service. The utility a good or service provides varies from individual to individual based on their personal preference.



Typically, the more of a good or service that consumers have, the less they're willing to spend for more of it, due to the diminishing marginal utility or additional benefit they receive. A consumer surplus occurs when the consumer is willing to pay more for a given product than the current market price.






Many producers are influenced by consumer surplus when they set their prices.


   The Formula for Consumer Surplus  

Economists define consumer surplus with the following equation:



Consumer surplus = (½) x Qd x ΔP



where:



Qd = the quantity at equilibrium where supply and demand are equalΔP = Pmax – Pd, or the price at equilibrium where supply and demand are equalPmax = the price a consumer is willing to pay


   Measuring Consumer Surplus  

The demand curve is a graphic representation used to calculate consumer surplus. It shows the relationship between the price of a product and the quantity of the product demanded at that price, with the price drawn on the y-axis of the graph and the quantity demanded drawn on the x-axis. Because of the law of diminishing marginal utility, the demand curve is downward sloping.



Consumer surplus is measured as the area below the downward-sloping demand curve, or the amount a consumer is willing to spend for given quantities of a good, and above the actual market price of the good, depicted with a horizontal line drawn between the y-axis and demand curve. Consumer surplus can be calculated on either an individual or aggregate basis, depending on if the demand curve is individual or aggregated.



Consumer surplus always increases as the price of a good falls and decreases as the price of a good rises. For example, suppose consumers are willing to pay $50 for the first unit of product A and $20 for the 50th unit. If 50 of the units are sold at $20 each, then 49 of the units were sold at a consumer surplus, assuming the demand curve is constant.



Consumer surplus is zero when the demand for a good is perfectly elastic. But demand is perfectly inelastic when consumer surplus is infinite.















Consumer Surplus.
Chris B Murphy






Economic welfare is also called community surplus, or the total of consumer and producer surplus.


   Example of Consumer Surplus  

Consumer surplus is the benefit or good feeling of getting a good deal. For example, let's say that you bought an airline ticket for a flight to Disney World during school vacation week for $100, but you were expecting and willing to pay $300 for one ticket. The $200 represents your consumer surplus.



However, businesses know how to turn consumer surplus into producer surplus or for their gain. In our example, let's say the airline realizes your surplus and as the calendar draws near to school vacation week raises its ticket prices to $300 each.



The airline knows there will be a spike in demand for travel to Disney World during school vacation week and that consumers will be willing to pay higher prices. So by raising the ticket prices, the airlines are taking consumer surplus and turning it into producer surplus or additional profits.




Is a High Consumer Surplus Good?
A high consumer surplus means that goods are priced quite a bit lower in the market than where consumers would ultimately be willing to pay. This is often the result of a high degree of competition, technological progress, and producer efficiency. In general, all of these things are considered to be "good" for promoting economic growth and prosperity.




What Is Producer Surplus?
Similar to consumer surplus, producer surplus is the economic benefit to producers of goods measured by the difference in market price and where the producer would be willing to sell. A producer surplus thus exists if the market price of a good is higher than the price the producer is willing to sell.




What Is Total Economic Surplus?
Total economic surplus is equal to the producer surplus plus the consumer surplus. It describes the total net benefit to society from free markets in goods or services.


   The Bottom Line  

In free markets, producers compete with one another to be the low-cost producer and grab market share from other companies in their space. The result is more quantity and lower prices for consumers, often lower than where they would be willing to pay for it. This difference between the market price (as determined by supply and demand) and the willingness to pay is the consumer surplus. A consumer surplus is seen as a benefit to the economy.
What Are Consumer Staples?  

The term consumer staples refers to a set of essential products used by consumers. This category includes things like foods and beverages, household goods, and hygiene products as well as alcohol and tobacco. These goods are those products that people are unable—or unwilling—to cut out of their budgets regardless of their financial situation.



Consumer staples are considered to be non-cyclical, meaning that they are always in demand, year-round, no matter how well the economy is—or is not—performing. As such, consumer staples are impervious to business cycles. Also, people tend to demand consumer staples at a relatively constant level, regardless of their price.





Key Takeaways

Consumer staple stocks represent companies that are noncyclical because they produce or sell goods or services that are always in demand.Characterized by steady if unspectacular growth, the consumer staple sector is a haven in for investors in recessionary times.Consumer staples stocks can be a good option for investors seeking consistent growth, solid dividends, and low volatility.


   The Basics of Consumer Staples  

Comprising nearly 70% of the nation’s gross national product (GNP), consumer spending holds a lot of sway over the economy. Economic growth and decline are typically led by consumer spending, which is cyclical. Cyclical means there are ebbs and flows, or times when the consumer spends more and periods when they have more conservative spending habits.



However, spending on goods produced and sold by the consumer staples sector tends to be far less cyclical due to the lessened price elasticity of demand. Price elasticity is an economic concept that describes the change in consumer quantity demand as prices change. The demand for consumer staples goods remains fairly constant regardless of the state of the economy or the cost of the product.


   The Makeup of the Consumer Staples Sector  

Companies that sell pharmaceutical drugs, like drugstores, are included in the sector, as are companies that produce and grow crops. Within the S&P 500 Index, consumer staples are broken down into six industries:



BeveragesFood and staples retailingFood productsHousehold productsPersonal productsTobacco



Although there are no substitutes for consumer staples goods, consumers have a lot of options when shopping for the cheapest products. That makes the competition among suppliers very challenging in an environment where commodity prices are rising. To compete on price consumer staples producers must be able to keep their costs down by adopting new technologies and processes, or they must differentiate by introducing innovative products.


   Consumer Staples Financial Performance  

The consumer staples sector has outperformed all but one sector since 1962. According to the S&P Dow Jones Indices, for most of the 10 years ending April 26, 2021, the consumer staples sector returned 8.20% annually. Compare this to the 11.86% return of the S&P 500 over the same period. But the two generally move in line with one another.



More importantly, the consumer staples sector has outperformed the S&P 500 during the last three recessionary periods—or periods of negative growth in the gross domestic product (GDP). Due to their low volatility, consumer staples stocks are considered to play a key role in defensive strategies.


   Investing in Consumer Staples  

Buoyed by the persistent demand of their products, consumer staples companies generate consistent revenues, even in recessionary periods. As a result, consumer staples stocks decline far less during bear markets than stocks in other sectors. With some products, such as food, alcohol, and tobacco, demand sometimes actually increases during economic downturns.



The consumer staples sector also often lures investors with its components' rich dividend yields, which tend to be larger than those generated in other sectors. Because of their slow and steady nature, consumer staples stocks can also not only continue to pay dividends through recessionary periods but often continue to increase their payouts. According to "Dividend.com," the annual dividend rate increased 8% over the 20 years ended in 2015.



As stocks rise in price, dividend yields will fall if the size of the dividend does not increase as well. Conversely, if stocks fall in price and if the dividend payout does not change, then the dividend yield increases. For example, when stock prices fell dramatically in the wake of the 2020 economic crisis and lockdown, the yield for State Street's Consumer Staples sector index ETF (XLP) rose from 2.74% to 3.00%, due primarily to the lower priced shares producing the same dividend amount.



Further, consumer staples are important for portfolio diversification. Also, because these stocks tend to perform in a way counter to the consumer discretionary sector in market recessions, they can help bring balance to a portfolio. They tend to bring in consistent earnings that support their dividend yields unlike the boom and bust cycles of riskier high-growth stocks, though more growth is available for consumer staples as they expand globally. 





Pros

Steady dividends, earnings
Little volatility
Low risk
Safe haven in recessionary times



Cons

Slow growth
Limited highs
Underperformers when interest rates rise






Consumer staples stocks can be a good option for investors seeking steady growth, solid dividends, and low volatility. One can invest in consumer staples by purchasing the stocks of the individual consumer staples companies—industry leaders include Procter & Gamble (P&G), B&G Foods (BGS), Kimberly-Clark (KMB), and Phillip Morris (PM)—or by purchasing mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs) that specialize in the sector.


   Real World Example of Consumer Staples  

Many of the major investment companies offer some consumer staples play. Vanguard, for example, offers VDC, a consumer staples ETF, and a Consumer Staples Index mutual fund. Invesco has PBJ, its dynamic food & beverage ETF, along with a more general S&P SmallCap Consumer Staples ETF.



Further, if you want to try investing internationally—after all, people need staples the world over—the WisdomTree Emerging Markets Consumer Growth ETF (EMCG) and the iShares Global Consumer Staples ETF (KXI) are two options.
What Is Consumerism?  

Consumerism is the idea that increasing the consumption of goods and services purchased in the market is always a desirable goal, and that a person's well-being and happiness depend fundamentally on obtaining consumer goods and material possessions.



In the economics sense, consumerism is related to the predominantly Keynesian idea that consumer spending is the key driver of the economy and that encouraging consumers to spend is a major policy goal. From this point of view, consumerism is a positive phenomenon that fuels economic growth.



Others view the drive to obtain more material possessions as a problematic, causing individual anxiety and eroding the social fabric.





Key Takeaways

Consumerism is the theory that individuals who consume goods and services in large quantities will be better off.Some economists believe that consumer spending stimulates production and economic growth.Economists view consumption as about fulfilling biological needs & wants based on maximizing utility.Sociologists instead view consumption as additionally about fulfilling socially-inscribed needs and wants via symbolic transactions.Hyper-consumerism has been widely criticized for its economic, social, environmental, and psychological consequences.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Consumerism  

In common use, consumerism refers to the tendency of people living in a capitalist economy to engage in a lifestyle of excessive materialism that revolves around reflexive, wasteful, or conspicuous overconsumption. In this sense, consumerism is widely understood to contribute to the destruction of traditional values and ways of life, consumer exploitation by big business, environmental degradation, and negative psychological effects.



Thorstein Veblen, for example, was a 19th-century economist and sociologist best known for coining the term “conspicuous consumption” in his book The Theory of the Leisure Class (1899). Conspicuous consumption is a means to show one's social status, especially when publicly displayed goods and services are too expensive for other members of the same class. This type of consumption is typically associated with the wealthy but can also apply to any economic class.



Following the Great Depression, consumerism was largely derided. However, with the U.S. economy kickstarted by World War II and the prosperity that followed at the end of the war, the use of the term in the mid-20th century began to have a positive connotation. During this time, consumerism emphasized the benefits that capitalism had to offer in terms of improving standards of living and an economic policy that prioritized the interests of consumers. These largely nostalgic meanings have since fallen out of general use.



As consumers spend, economists presume that consumers benefit from the utility of the consumer goods that they purchase, but businesses also benefit from increased sales, revenue, and profit. For example, if car sales increase, auto manufacturers see a boost in profits. Additionally, the companies that make steel, tires, and upholstery for cars also see increased sales. In other words, spending by the consumer can benefit the economy and the business sector in particular.






Some economists view increasing levels of consumer spending as a critical goal in building and maintaining a strong economy, irrespective of the benefit to the consumer or society as a whole.Others, however, have grown quite concerned about the negative societal effects of hyper-consumerism.


   The Economic Impact of Consumerism  

According to Keynesian macroeconomics, boosting consumer spending through fiscal and monetary policy is a primary target for economic policymakers. Consumer spending makes up the lion's share of aggregate demand and gross domestic product (GDP), so boosting consumer spending is seen as the most effective way to steer the economy toward growth.



Consumerism views the consumer as the target of economic policy and a cash cow for the business sector with the sole belief that increasing consumption benefits the economy. Saving can even be seen as harmful to the economy because it comes at the expense of immediate consumption spending. 



Consumerism also helps shape some business practices. Planned obsolescence of consumer goods can displace competition among producers to make more durable products. Marketing and advertising can become focused on creating consumer demand for new products rather than informing consumers.


   Conspicuous Consumption  

Political economist Thorstein Veblen developed the concept of conspicuous consumption in 1899, where he theorized that some consumers purchase, own, and use products not for their direct-use value but as a way of signaling social and economic status.



As standards of living rose after the Industrial Revolution, conspicuous consumption grew. High rates of conspicuous consumption can be a wasteful zero-sum or even negative-sum activity as real resources are used up to produce goods that are not valued for their use but rather the image they portray.



In the form of conspicuous consumption, consumerism can impose enormous real costs on an economy. Consuming real resources in zero- or negative-sum competition for social status can offset the gains from commerce in a modern industrial economy and lead to destructive creation in markets for consumers and other goods.






Sociologists view consumerism as symbolic consumption that may not maximize individual utility. Instead, it can serve as a signal to others and help establish one's identity. When it comes to being a consumer, social actors (e.g., peer pressure, in-groups, advertisers) limit your free choice.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Consumerism  
  Advantages  

Advocates of consumerism point to how consumer spending can drive an economy and lead to increased production of goods and services. As a result of higher consumer spending, a rise in GDP can occur. In the United States, signs of healthy consumer demand can be found in consumer confidence indicators, retail sales, and personal consumption expenditures. Business owners, workers in the industry, and owners of raw resources can profit from sales of consumer goods either directly or through downstream buyers. 


  Disadvantages  

Consumerism is often criticized on cultural grounds. Some see that consumerism can lead to a materialistic society that neglects other values. Traditional modes of production and ways of life can be replaced by a focus on consuming ever more costly goods in larger quantities.



Consumerism is often associated with globalization in promoting the production and consumption of globally traded goods and brands, which can be incompatible with local cultures and patterns of economic activity. Consumerism can also create incentives for consumers to take on unsustainable debt levels that contribute to financial crises and recessions. 



Environmental problems are frequently associated with consumerism to the extent that consumer goods industries and the direct effects of consumption produce negative environmental externalities. These can include urban sprawl, pollution, resource depletion, and problems with waste disposal from excess consumer goods and packaging.



Consumerism is also criticized on psychological grounds. It is blamed for increasing status anxiety, where people experience stress associated with social status and a perceived need to "keep up with the Joneses" by increasing their consumption.



Psychological research has shown that people who organize their lives around consumerist goals, such as product acquisition, report poorer moods, greater unhappiness in relationships, and other psychological problems. Psychological experiments have shown that people exposed to consumerist values based on wealth, status, and material possessions display greater anxiety and depression. In other words, science shows that consumerism does not make people happy at all.





Consumerism and the American Dream

“The American Dream” has always been about the prospect of success, but 100 years ago, the phrase meant the opposite of what it does now.The original “American Dream” was not a dream of individual wealth and consumerism; it was a dream of social equality, justice, and democracy for the nation (first used widely in the 1916 elections).The phrase was repurposed by each generation, until the Cold War, when it became an argument for a consumer capitalist version of democracy. Our ideas about the “American Dream” froze in the 1950s. Today, it can often mean consumerism.




What Are Some Examples of Consumerism?
Consumerism is defined by the never-ending pursuit to shop and consume. Examples including shopping sprees, especially those that engage a large number of people, such as Black Friday sales on the day after Thanksgiving.Another example of consumerism involves the introduction of newer models of mobile phone each year. While a mobile device that is a few years old can be perfectly functional and adequate, consumerism drives people to abandon those devices and purchase newer ones on a regular basis.Conspicuous consumption is yet another example. Here, people buy goods to show off their status or present a certain image. This doesn't always have to have negative connotation, as it can also signal pro-social behavior.




Is Consumerism Bad for Society?
While people need to be consumers in order to live and obtain our needs and wants, excess consumerism is widely thought to be a negative for society. Consumerism leads to negative externalities like pollution and waste. Moreover, consumerism begins to define people by what they own. According to some sociologists, mass culture popularized via the advertising industry creates consumers who play a passive role manipulated by brands, rather than as active and creative beings. There are systematic biases in the system which generate consumerism. If these system-biases were eliminated, many people would adopt a less consumerist lifestyle.




How Does Consumerism Shape Social Class?
Tastes and preferences for consumption goods are stratified by social class, not only in terms of monetary cost, but also appropriateness. Working class individuals tend to consume certain types of food, media, dress, and pastimes that may differ from those in the top 1% or higher strata. Consumption defines both self- and group-identity: People aspire to “consume up” to “keep up with the Jones’," but people fear downward mobility.


   The Bottom Line  

Consumerism is the propensity to consume and keep consuming. It is the drive to buy and own more stuff, and to define one's identity through what they own. Economists view consumerism as a positive for consumer spending and GDP growth. Others like psychologists and sociologists, however, see negative effects of rampant consumerism ranging from creating anxiety in individuals to social ills.
What Is the Consumption Function?  

The term consumption function refers to an economic formula that represents the functional relationship between total consumption and gross national income (GNI). The consumption function was introduced by British economist John Maynard Keynes, who argued the function could be used to track and predict total aggregate consumption expenditures. It is a valuable tool that can be used by economists and other leaders to understand the economic cycle and help them make key decisions about investments as well as monetary and fiscal policy.





Key Takeaways

The consumption function is an economic formula that measures the relationship between income and total consumption of goods and services in the economy. The consumption function was introduced by John Maynard Keynes. Keynes argued that the consumption function could track and predict total aggregate consumption spending.Economists and leaders can use the consumption function to make important economic and investment decisions.Other economists have come up with variations of the consumption function over time, including those developed by Franco Modigliani and Milton Friedman.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Understanding the Consumption Function  

As noted above, the consumption function is an economic formula introduced by John Maynard Keynes, who tracked the connection between income and spending. Also called the Keynesian consumption function, it tracks the proportion of income used to purchase goods and services. Put simply, it can be used to estimate and predict spending in the future.



The classic consumption function suggests consumer spending is wholly determined by income and the changes in income. If true, aggregate savings should increase proportionally as the gross domestic product (GDP) grows over time. The idea is to create a mathematical relationship between disposable income and consumer spending, but only on aggregate levels.



Based in part on Keynes' Psychological Law of Consumption, the stability of the consumption function is a cornerstone of Keynesian macroeconomic theory. This is especially true when it is contrasted with the volatility of an investment, Most post-Keynesians admit the consumption function is not stable in the long run since consumption patterns change as income rises.






The consumption function uses gross national income as a component, which is the total amount of income earned by all participants in a nation's economy. This includes individuals and businesses in and outside its borders.


   Calculating the Consumption Function  

The consumption function is represented as:



﻿















C


 


=


 


A


 


+


 


M


D
















where:
















C


=


consumer spending
















A


=


autonomous consumption
















M


=


marginal propensity to consume








\begin{aligned}&C\ =\ A\ +\ MD\\&\textbf{where:}\\&C=\text{consumer spending}\\&A=\text{autonomous consumption}\\&M=\text{marginal propensity to consume}\\&D=\text{real disposable income}\end{aligned}


​C = A + MDwhere:C=consumer spendingA=autonomous consumptionM=marginal propensity to consume​﻿


   Assumptions and Implications  

Much of the Keynesian doctrine centers around the frequency with which a given population spends or saves new income. The multiplier, the consumption function, and the marginal propensity to consume are each crucial to Keynes’ focus on spending and aggregate demand.



The consumption function is assumed stable and static where all expenditures are passively determined by the level of national income. The same is not true of savings or government spending, both of which Keynes referred to as investments.



For the model to be valid, the consumption function and independent investment must remain constant long enough for gross national income to reach equilibrium. At equilibrium, the expectations of businesses and consumers match up. One potential problem is that the consumption function cannot handle changes in the distribution of income and wealth. When these change, so too might autonomous consumption and the marginal propensity to consume.






Keynes was a proponent of government spending to curb economic downturns. Economists like Milton Friedman challenged these notions, saying government spending and federal debt could lead to inflation.


   Other Versions  

Over time, other economists have made adjustments to the Keynesian consumption function. Variables such as employment uncertainty, borrowing limits, or even life expectancy can be incorporated to modify the older, cruder function.



For example, many standard models stem from the so-called life cycle theory of consumer behavior as pioneered by Franco Modigliani. His model made adjustments based on how income and liquid cash balances affect an individual's marginal propensity to consume. This hypothesis stipulated that poorer individuals likely spend new income at a higher rate than wealthy individuals.



Milton Friedman offered his own simple version of the consumption function, which he called the “permanent income hypothesis.” Notably, the Friedman model distinguished between permanent and temporary income. It also extended Modigliani’s use of life expectancy to infinity.



More sophisticated functions may even substitute disposable income, which takes into account taxes, transfers, and other sources of income. Still, most empirical tests fail to match up with the consumption function’s predictions. Statistics show frequent and sometimes dramatic adjustments in the consumption function.




What Does the Consumption Function Measure?
The consumption function is an economic concept that explains the relationship between income and spending. It was introduced by British economist John Maynard Keynes, who suggested that economists could use the consumption function to track and estimate total consumer spending in the economy.




How Do You Calculate the Consumption Function?
The consumption function can be calculated using a simple formula:C = A + MD where C is the consumer spending, A is autonomous consumption (spending regardless of income levels), M is the marginal propensity to consume (the amount of additional income needed to spend on goods and services rather than saving it), and D is the amount of real disposable income required.




Who Introduced the Consumption Function?
The consumption function was introduced by economist John Maynard Keynes. He is known as the father of modern macroeconomics and the founder of Keynesian economics. This branch of economics suggests that governments should be actively involved in their economies. Rather than let their economies fall under the free market, Keynes said government spending can be used as a tool to cut back on weakness in the economy.




What Shifts the Consumption Function Forward?
The consumption function shifts forward (or upward) when disposable income or accumulated wealth also increases. The inverse is true for a downward shift in the consumption function. In this case, it drops or shifts downward when income or wealth drops.




Why Is the Consumption Function Important?
There are multiple reasons why the consumption function is important to economics. It is a macroeconomic tool that can help economists understand the economy, including how business cycles work and the function of the money supply among others. Economists and decision-makers can use it (and the formula) to make investment decisions and shape monetary and fiscal policy to direct the economy.


   The Bottom Line  

John Maynard Keynes is often credited as being the father of modern macroeconomics. His branch of economics, called Keynesian economics, suggested that demand was the driving force of any economy. He also introduced the idea of the consumption function, which explains the relationship between a country's income and spending. According to the theory, spending is sensitive to the level of income. So spending will increase when income does. Economists and leaders can use this theory to help make predictions about future spending and important economic and investment decisions for the future.
What Is Contango?  

Contango is a situation where the futures price of a commodity is higher than the spot price. Contango usually occurs when an asset's price is expected to rise over time. That results in an upward-sloping forward curve.





Key Takeaways

Contango is a situation where the futures price of a commodity is higher than the spot price.In all futures market scenarios, the futures prices will usually converge toward the spot prices as the contracts approach expiration.Advanced traders can use arbitrage and other strategies to profit from contango.Contango tends to cause losses for investors in commodity ETFs that use futures contracts, but these losses can be avoided by purchasing ETFs that hold actual commodities.


   Understanding Contango  

Futures contract supply and demand affect their price at each available expiration. Contracts represent a specified amount of a commodity to be delivered at a certain date, called the expiration date, and other specifications. For example, one crude oil futures contract is for 1,000 barrels and defines when trading stops, how the contract is settled, the minimum price fluctuations, and more.


  Future Prices vs. Spot Prices  

Commodities traders buy and sell these contracts on commodities exchanges. Buyers place bids to purchase the contracts, some of which will take physical possession of the commodities. Sellers sell derivatives of the contracts or the actual commodities. These contracts represent commodities that will be delivered in the future, so their price is what traders believe the contracts will be worth when they reach their expiration date.



Spot prices, on the other hand, are what a commodity would sell for if you were to buy it right now and take immediate delivery. So, if futures prices are higher than spot prices, it means traders expect prices to rise. This is usually represented by a rising curve on a graph.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



When prices are in contango, investors are willing to pay more for a commodity that will be delivered in the future. The difference between the spot and future prices is referred to as a premium.



The premium usually includes the cost of carry, which is a term that refers to the costs of holding an asset for a certain period. The cost of carry for commodities generally includes storage, insurance, or depreciation due to spoiling or rotting if the commodity is an agricultural or meat product.


  Converging Prices  

In all futures market scenarios, the futures prices will usually converge toward the spot prices as the contracts approach expiration (expiry). That happens because the expiry date is drawing closer and is more reflective of the actual value of the commodity—contract traders are going to pay closer and closer to the spot market values. Additionally, because there is a large number of buyers and sellers, the market becomes more efficient and eliminates large arbitrage opportunities.



That said, a market in contango will see gradual decreases in the price to meet the spot price at expiration.






Another important factor is that most futures traders and investors won't want to take possession of the underlying commodities. They will close their positions long before expiry to reduce the risk of needing to store, say, 1,000 barrels of crude oil.


  Futures are Speculative  

Overall, futures markets involve a substantial amount of speculation. When contracts are further away from expiration, they are more speculative. But there are several reasons a trader would want to lock in a higher futures price. As mentioned, the cost of carry is one common reason for buying commodities futures.



Producers have other reasons to pay more for futures than the spot price. Producers make commodity purchases as needed based on their inventory. How they manage their inventory may be influenced by the spot price vs. the futures price. However, they will generally follow the spot and futures prices while seeking to achieve the best cost efficiency. Some producers may believe that the spot price will rise rather than fall over time. Therefore, they hedge by offering slightly higher prices for future contracts to try and influence contango.


   Causes of Contango  

Different markets are affected by various factors. For instance, crops can be affected by weather, and oil can be affected by geopolitical instabilities. These instabilities or uncertainties can cause investors and traders to anticipate price drops or increases and to respond accordingly. For the most part, contango is caused by:



Inflation: Rising costs increase the costs of carryingPolitical instability: Supply system and trading routes get disruptedWeather: Crops may not grow or be harvested as anticipatedSentiment: Traders and investors can change their minds about the market


   Example of Contango  

One of the most common markets that see contango is the crude oil futures market. It experienced contango in 2020—the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) called it super contango, meaning that the difference between futures and spot prices was very pronounced.



On Feb 2023, Brent Crude front month contracts (spot price) settled at $83.16 (front month, April), while future months settled at:



$82.82 (May 2023)$82.29 (June 2023)$81.87 (July 2023)$81.44 (August 2023)



This is not an example of contango, but if the prices had been reversed to this:



$81.44 (Front month, April)$81.87 (May 2023)$82.29 (July 2023)$82.82 (July 2023)$83.16 (August 2023)



The market would have been in contango.






Overtime, arbitrage—buying and selling an asset simultaneously in different markets to take advantage of price differences—opportunities are reduced because futures prices and spot prices converge.


   The Effects of Contango on Investments  

Generally, contango causes investors to believe that prices are going to continue rising. It indicates that demand is higher than supply in the short term, causing futures prices to rise. Futures prices rise above spot prices because investors become comfortable paying more for the future assets.



However, commodity and volatility funds are structured to buy short-term futures. As a result, contango can eat away at these funds' value because it can reduce the capital a fund holds for purchases for the next period.


   Contango vs. Backwardation  

Contango, sometimes referred to as forwardation, is the opposite of backwardation. In the futures markets, the forward curve can be in contango or backwardation.



A market is "in backwardation" when the futures price is below the spot price for a particular asset. In general, backwardation can be the result of current supply and demand factors. It may be signaling that investors are expecting asset prices to fall over time.



Because investors base their futures bids on how they foresee the market turning out, sentiment plays a significant part in backwardation. Investors might anticipate a declining market and begin to sell short futures contracts with strike prices below the current spot price and buy the contracts for a profit.



A market in backwardation has a forward curve that is downward sloping, as shown below.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Contango  



Advantages

Arbitrage opportunities
Inflation protection
Short selling opportunities



Disadvantages

Futures contracts can be rolled forward
High risk when attempting to profit





  Advantages of Contago  

One way to benefit from contango is through arbitrage strategies. For example, an arbitrageur might buy a commodity at the spot price and then immediately sell it at a higher futures price. As futures contracts near expiration, this type of arbitrage increases. The spot and futures prices actually converge as expiration approaches due to arbitrage.



There is also another approach to profiting from contango. Futures prices above the spot price can signal higher prices in the future, particularly when inflation is high. Speculators may buy more of the commodity experiencing contango in an attempt to profit from higher expected prices in the future. They might be able to make even more money by buying futures contracts. However, that strategy only works if actual prices in the future exceed futures prices.



As mentioned previously, traders can profit from short-selling opportunities created by contango.


  Disadvantages of Contango  

The most significant disadvantage of contango comes from automatically rolling forward contracts, which is a common strategy for commodity ETFs. Investors who buy commodity contracts when markets are in contango tend to lose some money when the futures contracts expire higher than the spot price. Fortunately, the loss caused by contango is limited to commodity ETFs that use futures contracts, such as oil ETFs. Gold ETFs and other ETFs that hold actual commodities for investors do not suffer from contango.



The risks of trading in a contango market are increased when you're seeking profits because trades are being made at a premium. There is always the possibility that the market will fall to levels far below the price you've agreed to pay, causing losses.




What Are the Causes of Contago?
Contango can be caused by several factors, including inflation expectations, expected future supply disruptions, and the carrying costs of the commodity in question. Some investors will seek to profit from contango by exploiting arbitrage opportunities between the futures and spot prices.




What Is the Difference Between Contango and Backwardation?
The opposite of contango is known as backwardation. When the market is in backwardation, the futures prices for the commodity follow a downward-sloping curve in which futures prices are below spot prices. Although backwardation is relatively rare, it occasionally occurs in several commodity markets. Causes of backwardation include anticipated declines in demand for the commodity, expectations of deflation, and a short-term shortage in the commodity’s supply.




How Does Contango Affect Commodity Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs)?
Investors in exchange-traded funds (ETFs) must understand how contango can affect certain commodity-based ETFs. Specifically, if a commodity ETF invests in commodity futures contracts as opposed to physically holding the commodity in question, that ETF may be forced to replace or continuously “roll over” its futures contracts as its older contracts expire. If the commodity in question is subject to contango, then this would lead to a steady rise in the prices being paid for these futures contracts. Over the long run, this can significantly increase the costs borne by the ETF, placing a downward drag on the returns earned by its investors.


   The Bottom Line  

Contango is a futures market occurrence marked by futures contract prices rising above spot prices. It means that traders and investors anticipate an increase in prices in the coming months.



The opposite of contango is backwardation, when futures prices are lower than spot prices. Futures contracts are inherently speculative, but contango and backwardation are standard market conditions because investors have different views about the future. The significant difference for investors, then, is how to trade during these conditions.
What Is a Contingency?  

A contingency is a potential occurrence of a negative event in the future, such as an economic recession, natural disaster, fraudulent activity, terrorist attack, or a pandemic. In 2020, businesses were hit with the coronavirus pandemic forcing many employees to have to work remotely. As a result, companies needed to implement a remote work strategy. However, for some businesses, working remotely wasn't an option, which led to the implementation of enhanced safety measures for employees and customers to prevent the spread of the virus.



Although contingencies can be prepared for, the nature and scope of such negative events are typically unknowable in advance. Companies and investors plan for various contingencies through analysis and implementing protective measures.



In finance, managers often attempt to identify and plan using predictive models for possible contingencies that they believe may occur. Financial managers tend to err on the conservative side to mitigate risk, assuming slightly worse-than-expected outcomes. A contingency plan might include arranging a company's affairs so that it can weather negative outcomes with the least distress possible.





Key Takeaways

A contingency is a potentially negative event that may occur in the future, such as an economic recession, natural disaster, or fraudulent activity.Companies and investors plan for various contingencies through analysis and implementing protective measures.A thorough contingency plan minimizes loss and damage caused by an unforeseen negative event. Contingency plans can include the purchase of options or insurance for investment portfolios.Banks must set aside a percentage of capital for negative contingencies, such as a recession, to protect the bank against losses.


   How a Contingency Works  

To plan for contingencies, financial managers may often also recommend setting aside significant reserves of cash so that the company has strong liquidity, even if it meets with a period of poor sales or unexpected expenses. Managers may seek to proactively open credit lines while a company is in a strong financial position to ensure access to borrowing in less favorable times. For example, pending litigation would be considered a contingent liability. Contingency plans typically include insurance policies that cover losses that may arise during and after a negative event.



However, insurance policies may not cover all of the costs or every scenario. For example, business interruption insurance doesn't usually cover pandemics, which many businesses suffered through as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. The Federal government had to step in and passed the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, which provided financial relief to businesses, families, and local governments to stem the economic hardship caused by the pandemic. In particular, the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) offered $349 billion in aid to small businesses to help them maintain their payroll and expenses.



Insurance companies might also limit coverage or put exclusions in place for an act of God, which is an exogenous event, meaning outside of human control, such as a flood or an earthquake. Also, insurance can't replace the customers that were lost to competitors due to an event, particularly if it was an internal systems issue such as a data breach.



As a result, businesses need to have contingency plans established to help minimize the lost revenue and increased costs that are involved when business operations have been disrupted. Typically, business consultants are hired to ensure contingency plans take a large number of possible scenarios into consideration and provide advice on how to best execute the plan.


   Types of Contingency Plans  

Contingency plans are utilized by corporations, governments, investors, and by central banks, such as the Fed. Contingencies can involve real estate transactions, commodities, investments, currency exchange rates, and geopolitical risks.


  Protecting Assets  

Contingencies might also include contingent assets, which are benefits (rather than losses) that accrue to a company or individual given the resolution of some uncertain event in the future. A favorable ruling in a lawsuit or an inheritance would be an example of contingent assets.



Contingency plans might involve purchasing insurance policies that pay cash or a benefit if a particular contingency occurs. For example, property insurance might be purchased to protect against fire or wind damage.


  Investment Positions  

Investors protect themselves from contingencies that could lead to financial losses related to investing. Investors might employ various hedging strategies such as stop-loss orders, which exit a position at a specific price level. Hedging can also involve using options strategies, which is akin to buying insurance whereby the strategies earn money as an investment position loses money from a negative event.



The money earned from the options strategy completely or partially offsets the losses from the investment. However, these strategies come at a cost, usually in the form of a premium, which is an upfront cash payment.



Investors also employ asset diversification, which is the process of investing in various different types of investments. Asset diversification helps to minimize risk if one asset class, such as stocks, declines in value.





Contingent Immunization 

Contingent immunization is a type of contingency plan used in fixed-income investing. It involves the fund manager switching to a defensive position if the portfolio drops below a predetermined value.


  Business Continuity and Recovery  

As part of a contingency plan for disasters, such as a pandemic, companies need to plan ahead to ensure that the business can operate during and after an event. This type of contingency plan is often called a business continuity plan (BCP) or a business recovery plan.



Typically, a business continuity team is formed to plan for any possible contingencies and manage the continuity and recovery plan during a disruption. Businesses need to identify their critical business functions and perform an analysis of how an event might impact the company's operations and processes. The contingency plan would include implementing the recovery of critical business functions such as systems, production, and employee access to technology such as computers.



For example, a contingency plan for a pandemic would include developing a remote work strategy to help prevent the spread of disease and to provide employees with secure access to their work. As a result, companies would need to invest in technology, which could include providing laptops and video-conferencing access to employees, creating cloud-based data storage, and facilitating access to company-wide communications such as email and internal data.


  Cybersecurity  

With any type of disaster, cybercriminals often try to take advantage of a crisis to hack into a company’s systems and steal data or disrupt business operations. Contingency plans are used to outline the procedures for cybersecurity teams to protect an organization from threats and malicious attacks.


   Special Considerations  

A contingency plan should also prepare for the loss of intellectual property through theft or destruction. As a result, backups of critical files and computer programs, as well as key company patents, should be maintained in a secure off-site location. Contingency plans need to prepare for the possibility of operational mishaps, theft, and fraud. A company should have an emergency public relations response relating to possible events that have the ability to severely damage the company’s reputation and its ability to conduct business.



How a company is reorganized after a negative event should be included in a contingency plan. It should have procedures outlining what needs to be done to return the company to normal operations and limit any further damage from the event. For example, financial services firm Cantor Fitzgerald was able to resume operation in just two days after being crippled by the 9/11 terrorist attacks due to having a comprehensive contingency plan in place.


   Benefits of a Contingency Plan  

A thorough contingency plan minimizes loss and damage caused by an unforeseen negative event. For example, a brokerage company may have a backup power generator to ensure that trades can be executed in the event of a power failure, preventing possible financial loss. A contingency plan can also reduce the risk of a public relations disaster. A company that effectively communicates how negative events are to be navigated and responded to is less likely to suffer reputation damage.



A contingency plan often allows a company affected by a negative event to keep operating. For example, a company may have a provision in place for possible industrial action, such as a strike, so obligations to customers are not compromised. Companies that have a contingency plan in place may obtain better insurance rates and credit availability because they are seen to have reduced business risks.


   Example of a Contingency Plan  

As a result of the financial crisis of 2008 and the Great Recession, regulations were implemented requiring bank stress tests to be performed to test how a bank might handle various negative contingencies. The stress tests project how much a bank would lose—if a negative economic event occurred—to determine if the bank has enough capital or funds set aside to survive the event.



Banks are required to have a specific percentage of capital reserves on hand, depending on the total of risk-weighted assets (RWAs). These assets, which are typically loans, have various risk weightings applied to them. For example, a bank's mortgage portfolio might receive a 50% weighting, meaning the bank—in a negative scenario—should have enough capital that's valued at 50% of the outstanding mortgage loans.



The capital, called Tier-1 capital, can include equity shares or shareholders' equity and retained earnings, which is accumulated savings of prior years' profits. Although there are various components that go into the tier-capital ratio requirement, the ratio has to be at least 6% of the total of risk-weighted assets.



Let's say as an example, Bank XYZ has $3 million in retained earnings and $4 million in shareholders' equity, meaning the total tier-1 capital is $7 million. Bank XYZ has risk-weighted assets of $70 million. As a result, the bank's tier-1 capital ratio is 10% ($7 million/$70 million). Since the capital requirement is 6%, the bank is considered well-capitalized when compared to the minimum requirement.



Of course, we won't know if the banking sector's contingency plan will be adequate until another recession occurs, which is a limitation of these plans since it's difficult to plan for every contingency.


   Contingency FAQs  
  Why Is an Environmental Contingency Plan Important?  

Businesses that are at risk for environmental accidents–particularly spills of hazardous materials–should always have a plan in place detailing their response actions. Being prepared can help minimize the total damage done to the environment, minimize accident-related costs, and limit liability.


  What Is a Contingency Table?  

In statistics, contingency tables are used to display the data of variables in terms of frequency. They are frequently used in both survey research and scientific research.


  What Is Contingency Theory?  

Contingency theory is an approach to management that suggests the best way to run an organization is dependent, or contingent, on that particular situation. In other words, a specific management style can work well in one company and fail completely in another one.


  What Is an Appraisal Contingency?  

In real estate, an appraisal contingency is a clause that allows the homebuyer to walk away from their purchase contract if a home is appraised for less than the purchase price. An appraisal, in theory, determines the fair market value of the home.


  What Is a Home Inspection Contingency?  

A home inspection contingency is a provision that allows the buyer to have the home inspected before purchasing it. Depending on the results of the inspection, the buyer can either back out of the sale or negotiate on the repairs.


  What Is a Loan Contingency?  

A loan contingency, also known as a mortgage or financing contingency, is a provision that allows the buyer to back out of the purchase if something goes wrong in the loan approval process.


  What Is a Contingency Fee for a Lawyer?  

A contingency fee for a lawyer is the amount of money they receive as payment only if the case is won. In general, lawyers charge a contingency fee percentage between 33% and 40%.


   The Bottom Line  

A contingency is a potentially negative future event or circumstance, such as a global pandemic, natural disaster, or terrorist attack. By designing plans that take contingencies into account, companies, governments, and individuals are able to limit the damage done by such events.
What Is a Contingent Asset?  

A contingent asset is a potential economic benefit that is dependent on some future event(s) largely out of a company’s control. A contingent asset is thus also known as a potential asset.



Not knowing for certain whether these gains will materialize, or being able to determine their precise economic value, means these assets cannot be recorded on the balance sheet. However, they can be reported in the accompanying footnotes of financial statements, provided that certain conditions are met.





Key Takeaways

A contingent asset is only valuable if certain events or conditions that are independent of a company's own actions come to pass in the future.Upon meeting certain conditions, contingent assets are reported in the accompanying notes of financial statements.A contingent asset can be recorded on a firm's balance sheet only when the realization of cash flows associated with it becomes relatively certain.


   Understanding Contingent Assets  

A contingent asset becomes a realized asset recordable on the balance sheet when the realization of cash flows associated with it becomes relatively certain. In this case, the asset is recognized in the period when the change in status occurs.



Contingent assets may arise due to the economic value being unknown. Alternatively, they might occur due to uncertainty relating to the outcome of an event in which an asset may be created. A contingent asset appears because of previous events, but the entirety of all asset information will not be collected until future events happen.



There also exists contingent or potential liabilities. Unlike contingent assets, they refer to a potential loss that may be incurred, depending on how a certain future event unfolds.


   Examples of Contingent Assets  

A company involved in a lawsuit that expects to receive compensation has a contingent asset because the outcome of the case is not yet known and the dollar amount is yet to be determined.



Let’s say Company ABC has filed a lawsuit against Company XYZ for infringing a patent. If there is a decent chance that Company ABC will win the case, it has a contingent asset. This potential asset will generally be disclosed in its financial statement, but not recorded as an asset until the lawsuit is settled.



Based on this same example, Company XYZ would need to disclose a potential contingent liability in its notes and then later record it in its accounts, should it lose the lawsuit and be ordered to pay damages.



Contingent assets also crop up when companies expect to receive money through the use of a warranty. Other examples include benefits to be received from an estate or other court settlement. Anticipated mergers and acquisitions are to be disclosed in the financial statements.


   Reporting Requirements  

Both generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) require companies to disclose contingent assets if there is a decent possibility that these potential gains will eventually be realized. For U.S. GAAP, there generally needs to be a 70% likelihood that the gain occurs. IFRS, on the other hand, is slightly more lenient and generally permits companies to make reference to potential gains if there is at least a 50% likelihood that they will occur.



International Accounting Standard 37 (IAS 37), applicable to IFRS, states the following: “Contingent assets are not recognized, but they are disclosed when it is more likely than not that an inflow of benefits will occur. However, when the inflow of benefits is virtually certain an asset is recognized in the statement of financial position because that asset is no longer considered to be contingent.”



Contingent asset accounting policies for GAAP, meanwhile, are mainly outlined in the Financial Accounting Standards Board's (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 450.


   Special Considerations  

Companies must reevaluate the potential asset continually. When a contingent asset becomes likely, firms must report it in financial statements by estimating the income to be collected. The estimate is generated using a range of possible outcomes, the associated risks, and experience with similar potential contingent assets.



Contingent assets are ruled under the conservatism principle, which is an accounting practice that states that uncertain events and outcomes should be reported in a manner that results in the lowest potential profit. In other words, companies are discouraged from inflating expectations and are generally advised to utilize the lowest estimated asset valuation.



In addition, no gain may be recorded from a contingent asset until it actually occurs. The conservatism principle supersedes the matching principle of accrual accounting, meaning the asset may not be reported until a period after associated costs were incurred.
What Is a Contingent Beneficiary?  

A contingent beneficiary is specified by an insurance contract holder or retirement account owner as the person or entity receiving proceeds if the primary beneficiary is deceased, unable to be located, or refuses the inheritance at the time when the proceeds are to be paid. A contingent beneficiary is entitled to insurance proceeds or retirement assets only if certain predetermined conditions are met at the time of the insured’s death, such as information found in a will.





Key Takeaways

A contingent beneficiary is a beneficiary of proceeds or a payout if the primary beneficiary is deceased, unable to be located, or refuses the inheritance when proceeds are to be paid.A contingent beneficiary can be named in an insurance contract or a retirement account.Multiple contingent beneficiaries can be listed in which each beneficiary is designated a specific percentage of the money, adding up to 100%.


   How a Contingent Beneficiary Assignment Works  

For a contingent beneficiary of a will, virtually any conditions may be in place; it depends entirely on the person drafting the will. A contingent beneficiary will receive nothing if the primary beneficiary accepts an inheritance.



For example, let us say Cheryl lists their spouse, John, as the primary beneficiary for Cheryl’s life insurance policy and their two children as contingent beneficiaries. When Cheryl dies, John receives the insurance payout and the children receive nothing. If John predeceases Cheryl, their children each receive half of the proceeds.


   Characteristics of Contingent Beneficiaries  

Contingent beneficiaries can be people, organizations, estates, charities, or trusts. Minor children or pets do not qualify because they do not have the legal power to accept assigned assets. If a minor is listed as a contingent beneficiary, a legal guardian is appointed to oversee the money until the minor reaches legal age. Although it’s more common for contingent beneficiaries to be immediate family members, close friends and other relatives are often listed as well.



Multiple contingent beneficiaries may be listed on a life insurance policy or retirement account. Each beneficiary is designated a specific percentage of the money, adding up to 100%. A contingent beneficiary receives assets in the same manner stated for the primary beneficiary. For example, a primary beneficiary receiving $1,000 per month for 10 years means that a contingent beneficiary receives payments in the same way.



Contingent beneficiaries need to be reviewed and updated after major life changes, such as marriage, divorce, birth, or death. For example, after Chris and Rain divorce, Chris updates their life insurance policy so Chris’ child, River, is the primary beneficiary and Chris’ other child, Riley, is the contingent beneficiary. Chris successfully blocks Rain from receiving Chris’ life insurance proceeds.


   Benefits of Naming Contingent Beneficiaries  

Naming a contingent beneficiary for a life insurance policy or retirement account helps one’s family avoid unnecessary time and expenses related to probate. Probate is the legal process of distributing a deceased person’s assets when there is no will.



For example, Uni lists their children’s stepparent, Alex, as the primary beneficiary and Uni’s favorite charity as the contingent beneficiary for their life insurance proceeds. Even if Alex dies before Uni, Uni’s children cannot fight over their life insurance benefits because Uni listed the charity as the contingent beneficiary.



A life insurance policyholder or retirement account owner can create contingencies preventing an inheritance without meeting certain qualifications. For example, an individual retirement account (IRA) owner could establish their child as the contingent beneficiary and attach a restriction that the child may only inherit the money after they complete college.



Another thing to note is, due to the passage of the Setting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act in 2019, non-spousal beneficiaries must withdraw 100% of the IRA funds by the end of the 10th year following the IRA owner’s death.




What happens if no contingent beneficiary is named?
If someone designates a beneficiary but no contingent beneficiary, and their primary beneficiary is deceased, the assets in question will be considered part of the estate and have to go through probate.




How many contingent beneficiaries can be named?
You can name as many contingent beneficiaries as you’d like and portion out your estate in any ratio that you wish. You can also appoint an organization as a beneficiary instead of an individual.




Do all primary beneficiaries have to die before assets move to the contingent beneficiary?
Yes. If there is more than one primary beneficiary and one of them dies, their portion is split among the other primary beneficiaries. All primary beneficiaries must be deceased or disclaim their inheritances before the assets pass to the contingent beneficiary.
What Are Contingent Convertibles (CoCos)?  

Contingent convertibles (CoCos) are debt instruments primarily issued by European financial institutions. These securities work in a fashion similar to traditional convertible bonds. They have a specific strike price that, once breached, allows the conversion of the bond into equity or stock.



CoCos, also known as AT1 bonds, are high-yield, high-risk products. A CoCo is also referred to as an enhanced capital note (ECN). The importance of this hybrid debt security is that it carries specialized options that help the issuing financial institution absorb a capital loss.



CoCos can help to shore up a bank’s balance sheets by allowing it to convert its debt to stock if specific, unfavorable capital conditions arise. They were created after the 2007–2008 global financial crisis to help undercapitalized banks and to reduce the potential for taxpayer-funded bailouts.





Key Takeaways

CoCos have a strike price at which the bond can be converted into stock.They're are used by the banking industry to absorb losses automatically and to satisfy regulatory capital requirements.A bank that's struggling financially does not have to repay the bond, make interest payments, or convert the bond to stock.CoCo investors receive interest payments that are typically much higher than those from traditional bonds.


   Understanding Contingent Convertibles (CoCos)  
  Purpose  

Cocos are designed to automatically cover bank losses and aid them in satisfying additional Tier 1 (AT1) and Tier 2 (T2) regulatory capital requirements imposed by Basel III.


  CoCos vs. Convertible Bonds  

There is a significant difference between bank-issued contingent convertibles bonds and standard convertible bonds. Convertible bonds have bond-like characteristics. They pay a regular rate of interest and have seniority in the case of the underlying business defaulting.



These debt securities also allow the bondholder to convert the debt security into the issuer's common stock shares at a specified strike price. This gives investors the potential for share price appreciation. The strike price is a specific stock price that needs to be reached for the conversion to occur.



Investors can benefit from convertible bonds since the bonds can be converted to stock when the company’s stock price is appreciating. The convertible feature allows investors to enjoy both the benefits of bonds with their fixed interest rate and the potential for capital appreciation from a rising stock price.


  CoCos Have Different Features  

Contingent convertibles expand on the concept of convertible bonds by modifying the conversion terms. As with the convertible bond, investors receive periodic, fixed-interest payments during the life of the bond. But CoCos automatically create a loss for investors if the issuer's capital drops under a specific level. Reaching these points of, normally, 7% or 5.125% of total risk-weighted assets can cause three potential results for investors:



A CoCo being converted to common sharesA temporary write-down of the CoCo's valueA permanent write-down of the CoCo's value



Broadly, the trigger can take several forms, including the price of the underlying shares, the bank’s need to meet regulatory capital requirements, or the demand of a managerial or supervisory authority.






The use of CoCos had not been introduced in the U.S. banking industry, as of 2019.


   Background of CoCos  

Contingent convertibles became popular as an aid to financial institutions in meeting Basel III capital requirements. Basel III is a regulatory accord outlining a set of minimum standards for the banking industry. Its goal was to improve the supervision, risk management, and the regulatory framework for the critical financial sector.


  Basel III Framework  

As part of the standards, a bank must maintain enough capital to be able to withstand a financial crisis and absorb unexpected losses from loans and investments. The Basel III framework tightened banks' capital requirements by limiting the kind of capital that they could include in their various capital tiers and structures.



One type of bank capital is Tier 1 capital—the highest-rated capital available to offset bad loans on the institution’s balance sheet. Tier 1 capital includes retained earnings—an accumulated account of profits—as well as common stock shares. Banks issue shares to investors to raise funding for their operations and to offset bad debt losses.



CoCos act as additional Tier 1 capital (AT1), helping European banks to meet the Basel III requirements. They allow a bank to absorb the loss of underwriting bad loans or other financial industry stress.


   How Banks Use Contingent Convertibles  

Banks use contingent convertibles differently from the way corporations use convertible bonds. Banks have their own set of parameters that warrant the bond’s conversion to stock. The triggering event for CoCos can be the bank’s value of Tier 1 capital, the judgment of supervisory authority, or the value of the bank’s underlying stock shares.



Banks absorb financial loss through CoCo bonds. Instead of converting bonds to common shares based solely on stock price appreciation, investors in CoCos agree to take equity in exchange for the regular income from the debt when the bank’s capital ratio falls below regulatory standards.



Importantly, the stock price might be lower than desired when a conversion is triggered. If the bank is having financial difficulty and needs capital, this is reflected in the value of its shares. As a result, CoCos can convert to equity while the stock’s price is declining. This puts investors at risk for losses.


  Benefits for Banks  

1. Contingent convertible bonds are an ideal product for undercapitalized banks in markets around the globe since they come with an embedded option that allows banks to meet capital requirements and limit capital distributions at the same time.



2. The issuing bank benefits from the CoCo by raising capital from the bond issue. However, if the bank has underwritten many bad loans, it may fall below its Basel Tier 1 capital requirements. In this case, the CoCo carries a stipulation that the bank doesn’t have to pay periodic interest payments, and it may even write down the full debt to satisfy Tier 1 requirements.



3. When the bank converts the CoCo to shares, it may remove the value of the debt from the liability side of its balance sheet. This bookkeeping change allows the bank to underwrite additional loans.



4. The security has no end date at which time the principal must return to investors. If the bank experiences financial hardship, it can postpone the payment of interest, force a conversion to equity, or, in dire situations, write the debt down to zero.






U.S. banks issue preferred stocks instead of CoCos to meet AT1 capital requirements.


   Benefits and Risks of CoCos for Investors  
  Benefits  

Due to their high yield in a world of safer, lower-yielding products, the popularity of contingent convertibles has grown. Many investors buy CoCos in the hope that the bank will one day redeem the debt by buying it back, and, until it does, they will pocket the high returns and accept the higher-than-average risk.
Investors receive common shares at a conversion rate set by the bank. The financial institution may define the share conversion price as the same value as when the debt was issued, the market price at conversion, or any other desired price level.


  Risks  

One downside of CoCo's share conversion is that the share price will be diluted, further reducing the earnings per share ratio.
There’s no guarantee that the CoCo will ever be converted to equity or fully redeemed, meaning the investor could be holding the CoCo for years. 
Regulators that allow banks to issue CoCos want their banks to be well-capitalized and, as a result, may make selling or unwinding a CoCo position quite difficult for investors.





Pros

European banks can raise Tier 1 capital by issuing CoCo bonds.
If necessary, the bank can postpone interest payment or may write down the debt to zero.
Investors receive periodic high-yield interest payments.
If a CoCo conversion is triggered by a higher stock price, investors receive share appreciation.



Cons

Investors bear the risks and have little control if the bonds are converted to stock.
CoCos converted to stock can result in investors receiving shares as the stock price is declining.
Investors may have difficulty selling their position in CoCos if regulators do not allow the sale.
Banks that issue CoCos have to pay a higher interest rate than that for traditional bonds.





   Examples of a Contingent Convertible  

Let’s say Deutsche Bank issued contingent convertibles with a trigger set to core Tier 1 capital instead of a strike price. If Tier 1 capital falls below 5%, the convertibles automatically convert to equity, and the bank improves its capital ratios by removing the bond debt from its balance sheet.



If an investor owns a CoCo with a $1,000 face value that pays 8% per year in interest, then the bondholder receives $80 per year. The stock trades at $100 per share when the bank reports widespread loan losses. The bank’s Tier 1 capital falls below the 5% level, which triggers the CoCos to be converted to stock.



The conversion ratio allows the investor to receive 25 shares of the bank’s stock for the $1,000 investment in the CoCo. However, the stock has steadily declined from $100 to $40 over the past several weeks. The 25 shares are worth $1,000 at $40 per share. The investor decides to hold the stock, and the next day, the price declines to $30 per share. The 25 shares are now worth $750, and the investor has lost 25%.



It’s important that investors who hold CoCo bonds weigh the risk that they'll need to act quickly if the bond is converted. Otherwise, they may experience significant losses. As stated earlier, when a CoCo trigger occurs, it may not be an ideal time to purchase the stock.


  CoCos and the Credit Suisse Failure  

In 2023, Credit Suisse Group AG’s contingent convertible securities suffered a historic $17 billion loss after UBS Group AG agreed to buy the bank. The Swiss government brokered the deal to contain a spreading crisis of confidence in global financial markets.



The deal triggered a total write-down of CoCos, which provoked an angry reaction from some bondholders. Credit Suisse had 13 CoCo issues outstanding worth a combined 6 billion Swiss francs.



However, CoCos were designed for crisis points like this and their risks were known.



CoCo bonds of other European lenders also plunged, with Deutsche Bank’s £650 million ($792 million) 7.125% note suffering its biggest-ever one-day decline.



CoCos are a popular way for European banks to raise capital while providing additional loss-absorbing capacity in times of stress. However, Credit Suisse’s experience raised concerns about the future of the CoCo market and AT1 bonds.



While European regulators reiterated that equities should absorb losses before bondholders, the decision to write down the bank’s riskiest debt sparked a furious response from some creditors. It should be noted that most other banks in Europe and the United Kingdom have more protections for their AT1 bonds. Credit Suisse and UBS had language in the terms of their deal that allowed for a permanent write-down.




How Do CoCos Differ From Convertible Bonds?
Contingent convertibles (CoCos) and convertible bonds both have a price point that triggers the conversion of the bond into equity or stock. However, CoCos have several triggers while traditional convertible bonds have only one.CoCos pay higher interest rates than convertible bonds due to their risks. They have special options that help banks absorb a capital loss.Moreover, convertible bondholders have priority should the underlying business default. CoCos are secondary debts issued by banks. CoCos are used mainly by banks to improve their financial position, while corporations use convertible bonds to raise capital.




Are Contingent Convertibles Regulated?
Yes, CoCos are regulated in the European Union under the Basel III regulatory framework. The framework sets minimum standards for the banking industry to improve supervision, risk management, and capital requirements.




What Happens to Contingent Convertibles During a Financial Crisis?
During a period of financial stress or uncertainty for banks, the value of CoCos can significantly decrease, as they are high-risk instruments. If a bank is struggling and needs additional capital, the value of its shares may decrease, putting CoCo investors at risk for losses. If a bank fails to meet its capital requirements, it may postpone the payment of interest or convert the bond into equity at a lower price to meet the regulatory standards. In dire situations, the bank may write down the value of CoCos to zero.


   The Bottom Line  

Contingent convertibles, or CoCos, are a type of debt instrument issued by European financial institutions. They are similar to traditional convertible bonds in that they can be converted into common stock at a particular strike price.



CoCos are used in the banking industry to shore up banks’ Tier 1 balance sheets, allowing them to absorb a capital loss. Because of this, CoCos are high-yield, higher-risk products, and investors need to weigh the benefits and risks of investing in CoCos carefully.
What Is a Contingent Liability?  

A contingent liability is a liability that may occur depending on the outcome of an uncertain future event. Contingent liabilities are recorded if the contingency is likely and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. The liability may be disclosed in a footnote on the financial statements unless both conditions are not met.





Key Takeaways

A contingent liability is a potential liability that may occur in the future, such as pending lawsuits or honoring product warranties.If the liability is likely to occur and the amount can be reasonably estimated, the liability should be recorded in the accounting records of a firm.Contingent liabilities are recorded to ensure that the financial statements are accurate and meet requirements of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).GAAP recognizes three categories of contingent liabilities: probable, possible, and remote.Pending lawsuits and warranties are common contingent liabilities.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   How Contingent Liabilities Work  

Pending lawsuits and product warranties are common contingent liability examples because their outcomes are uncertain. The accounting rules for reporting a contingent liability differ depending on the estimated dollar amount of the liability and the likelihood of the event occurring. The accounting rules ensure that financial statement readers receive sufficient information.






An estimated liability is certain to occur—so, an amount is always entered into the accounts even if the precise amount is not known at the time of data entry.


   When Do I Need to Be Aware of Contingent Liability?  

If you run a business or oversee the accounts of one, you need to be aware of the contingent liabilities that you have taken on. You’ll also need to record these. Both GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) and IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) require companies to record contingent liabilities in accordance with the three accounting principles: full disclosure, materiality, and prudence.



A contingent liability has to be recorded if the contingency is likely and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. GAAP recognizes three categories of contingent liabilities: probable, possible, and remote.



Probable contingent liabilities can be reasonably estimated (and must be reflected within financial statements). 
Possible contingent liabilities are as likely to occur as not (and need only be disclosed in the financial statement footnotes). 
Remote contingent liabilities are extremely unlikely to occur (and do not need to be included in financial statements at all).


   What Is Important to Know About Contingent Liability?  

Contingent liabilities adversely impact a company’s assets and net profitability. As a result, knowledge of both contingencies and commitments is extremely important to users of financial statements because they represent the encumbrance of potentially material amounts of resources during future​ periods, and thus affect the future cash flows available to creditors and investors.



Contingent liabilities are also important for potential lenders to a company, who will take these liabilities into account when deciding on their lending terms. Business leaders should also be aware of contingent liabilities, because they should be considered when making strategic decisions about a company’s future.


   Example of a Contingent Liability  

Assume that a company is facing a lawsuit from a rival firm for patent infringement. The company’s legal department thinks that the rival firm has a strong case, and the business estimates a $2 million loss if the firm loses the case. Because the liability is both probable and easy to estimate, the firm posts an accounting entry on the balance sheet to debit (increase) legal expenses for $2 million and to credit (increase) accrued expense for $2 million.



The accrual account permits the firm to immediately post an expense without the need for an immediate cash payment. If the lawsuit results in a loss, a debit is applied to the accrued account (deduction) and cash is credited (reduced) by $2 million.



Now assume that a lawsuit liability is possible but not probable and the dollar amount is estimated to be $2 million. Under these circumstances, the company discloses the contingent liability in the footnotes of the financial statements. If the firm determines that the likelihood of the liability occurring is remote, the company does not need to disclose the potential liability.



A warranty is another common contingent liability because the number of products returned under a warranty is unknown. Assume, for example, that a bike manufacturer offers a three-year warranty on bicycle seats, which cost $50 each. If the firm manufactures 1,000 bicycle seats in a year and offers a warranty per seat, the firm needs to estimate the number of seats that may be returned under warranty each year.



If, for example, the company forecasts that 200 seats must be replaced under warranty for $50, the firm posts a debit (increase) to warranty expense for $10,000 and a credit (increase) to accrued warranty liability for $10,000. At the end of the year, the accounts are adjusted for the actual warranty expense incurred.




What is a contingent liability?
A contingent liability is a liability that may occur depending on the outcome of an uncertain future event. A contingent liability has to be recorded if the contingency is likely and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Both generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) require companies to record contingent liabilities.




What are the 3 types of contingent liabilities?
GAAP recognizes three categories of contingent liabilities: probable, possible, and remote. Probable contingent liabilities can be reasonably estimated (and must be reflected within financial statements). Possible contingent liabilities are as likely to occur as not (and need only be disclosed in the financial statement footnotes). Remote contingent liabilities are extremely unlikely to occur (and do not need to be included in financial statements at all).




What are examples of contingent liability?
Pending lawsuits and warranties are common contingent liabilities. Pending lawsuits are considered contingent because the outcome is unknown. A warranty is considered contingent because the number of products that will be returned under a warranty is unknown.




Is contingent liability an actual liability?
Yes. Although contingent liabilities are necessarily estimates, they only exist where it is probable that some amount of payment will be made. This is why they need to be reported via accounting procedures, and why they are regarded as “real” liabilities.


   The Bottom Line  

A contingent liability is a potential liability that may occur in the future, such as pending lawsuits or honoring product warranties. If the liability is likely to occur and the amount can be reasonably estimated, the liability should be recorded in the accounting records of a firm.



Contingent liabilities are recorded to ensure that the financial statements are accurate and meet GAAP or IFRS requirements. GAAP recognizes three categories of contingent liabilities: probable, possible, and remote. Pending lawsuits and warranties are common contingent liabilities.
What Is a Contingent Value Right (CVR)?  

The term contingent value right (CVR) refers to a right often granted to shareholders of a company facing restructuring or a buyout. These rights ensure that the shareholders get certain benefits if a specific event occurs, usually within a specified time frame. These rights are similar to options because they frequently have an expiration date, beyond which the rights to the additional benefits will not apply. CVRs are usually related to the performance of a company's stock.





Key Takeaways

CVRs are rights granted to the shareholders of a target company by the acquirer. These rights stipulate that a shareholder will receive certain benefits if a specific performance event is met in a specific time frame.The benefits typically include a monetary benefit, such as additional stock or a cash payout.Just like unsecured obligations, CVRs aren't backed by any collateral and don't guarantee a payout. CVRs can be transferable, which are listed on an exchange, and non-transferable. 


   Understanding Contingent Value Rights (CVRs)  

A contingent value right is tied to a theorized future event, such as an acquisition. CVRs are created when the two companies in an acquisition come to different conclusions about the value of the target. The acquirer may feel that the current value of the target is limited with the potential for a higher value. The target, on the other hand, may value itself higher for any number of reasons, including a new product or technology.



CVRs help bridge the gap between this difference in valuation. An acquiring company can pay less upfront for the acquired company, But if it hits certain performance targets in the future, its shareholders will receive additional benefits.



These benefits give shareholders additional shares of the acquiring company or they may provide a cash payment. This is often linked if the acquired company's share price drops below a certain price by a predetermined date.



CVRs come with some risks. That's because their real value is not discernible when they are issued. The risk shareholders face remains unknown because these rights are based entirely on the anticipated price of the stock or some unforeseeable occurrence. When CVRs are issued, a portion of the acquirer's risk is transferred to the target company's shareholders. This could have an adverse effect on any existing shareholders, depending on the price paid to acquire the company.






Shareholders who are given a CVR are granted the benefit only if the triggering event takes place in the given time frame. If not, the CVR becomes worthless and expires.


   Types of Contingent Value Rights (CVRs)  

There are two ways that a contingent value right may be offered. They may be traded on a stock exchange or may be non-transferable.


  Stock Exchange Traded Contingent Value Rights (CVRs)  

CVRs that trade on a stock exchange can be bought by anyone, which means they do not have to be current shareholders of the acquired company. An investor can buy a CVR on an exchange up until it expires.


  Non-Transferable Contingent Value Rights (CVRs)  

Non-transferable CVRs, on the other hand, apply only to current shareholders of the acquired company and are distributed at the time of the merger. Companies prefer non-transferable CVRs as transferable CVRs listed on an exchange require regulatory work and incur higher costs.


   Contingent Value Rights (CVRs) as Unsecured Obligations  

The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Listed Company Manual refers to CVRs as "unsecured obligations of the issuer." An unsecured obligation, also known as unsecured debt, carries no collateral or backing by an underlying asset. Shareholders do not have a guaranteed right that the reward will be granted to them.



While they hold an obligation from a company, investors who receive CVRs are more akin to options holders than to, say, bondholders. Unlike the latter, they have no guarantee to be paid and they have no claim on the company's assets should their payment not materialize.



Just like options, all CVRs have an expiration date. No additional benefit is paid to the shareholder other than the stock itself if the CVR expires.


   Real-World Example of a Contingent Value Right (CVR)  

Common stock shareholders of Safeway received CVRs in May 2015 as a result of the merger of Safeway into a wholly-owned subsidiary of Albertsons Companies that year. They were issued in connection to the sale of Property Development Centers, Safeway's real estate subsidiary, back in 2014.



Safeway's shareholders were promised CVRs on the deal at the time. The first distribution of $0.17 per CVR occurred in May 2017. Nearly a year later, in April 2018, Albertsons made its final distribution of $0.00268 cash per CVR related to the sale of the Property Development Centers' assets.



The former shareholders of Safeway stock reaped another payout from additional CVRs, this one based on the sale of Safeway's stake in a Mexican retailer, Casa Ley. They did better on this deal, receiving $0.93 per CVR in February 2018. CVRs allowed Safeway's stockholders to share in the proceeds from the selloff of the assets of their old company.


   Contingent Value Rights FAQs  
  When Are Contingent Value Rights Used?  

CVRs are issued at the time that one company acquires another. It represents the difference in the two companies' valuation of the target and provides a benefit to its shareholders. These investors receive the benefit when the acquired company achieves a certain performance achievement.


  Who Benefits From Contingent Value Rights?  

Investors who hold shares in the target company of an acquisition benefit from CVRs.


  Are Contingent Value Rights Guaranteed?  

Contingent value rights are not guaranteed. The acquired company must meet certain performance metrics and/or targets in order for shareholders to receive the benefit. If the CVR expires before this happens, no benefit is granted.


  How Can a Shareholder Profit From Contingent Value Rights?  

In order to profit from a CVR, investors must hold stock in the acquired company before it is delisted from the stock exchange. Companies tend to prefer non-transferable CVRs, because it doesn't require listing the shares on an exchange. This costs less money and regulatory hurdles.
What Is Continuous Compounding?  

Continuous compounding is the mathematical limit that compound interest can reach if it's calculated and reinvested into an account's balance over a theoretically infinite number of periods. While this is not possible in practice, the concept of continuously compounded interest is important in finance. It is an extreme case of compounding, as most interest is compounded on a monthly, quarterly, or semiannual basis.


   Formula and Calculation of Continuous Compounding  

Instead of calculating interest on a finite number of periods, such as yearly or monthly, continuous compounding calculates interest assuming constant compounding over an infinite number of periods. The formula for compound interest over finite periods of time takes into account four variables:



PV = the present value of the investment
i = the stated interest rate
n = the number of compounding periods
t = the time in years



The formula for continuous compounding is derived from the formula for the future value of an interest-bearing investment:



Future Value (FV) = PV x [1 + (i / n)](n x t)



Calculating the limit of this formula as n approaches infinity (per the definition of continuous compounding) results in the formula for continuously compounded interest:



FV = PV x e (i x t), where e is the mathematical constant approximated as 2.7183.





Key Takeaways

Most interest is compounded on a semiannually, quarterly, or monthly basis.Continuously compounded interest assumes interest is compounded and added back into the balance an infinite number of times.The formula to compute continuously compounded interest takes into account four variables.The concept of continuously compounded interest is important in finance even though it’s not possible in practice.






   What Continuous Compounding Can Tell You  

In theory, continuously compounded interest means that an account balance is constantly earning interest, as well as refeeding that interest back into the balance so that it, too, earns interest.



Continuous compounding calculates interest under the assumption that interest will be compounding over an infinite number of periods. Although continuous compounding is an essential concept, it's not possible in the real world to have an infinite number of periods for interest to be calculated and paid. As a result, interest is typically compounded based on a fixed term, such as monthly, quarterly, or annually. 






Even with very large investment amounts, the difference in the total interest earned through continuous compounding is not very high when compared to traditional compounding periods.


   Example of How to Use Continuous Compounding  

As an example, assume a $10,000 investment earns 15% interest over the next year. The following examples show the ending value of the investment when the interest is compounded annually, semiannually, quarterly, monthly, daily, and continuously.



Annual Compounding: FV = $10,000 x (1 + (15% / 1)) (1 x 1) = $11,500Semi-Annual Compounding: FV = $10,000 x (1 + (15% / 2)) (2 x 1) = $11,556.25Quarterly Compounding: FV = $10,000 x (1 + (15% / 4)) (4 x 1) = $11,586.50Monthly Compounding: FV = $10,000 x (1 + (15% / 12)) (12 x 1) = $11,607.55Daily Compounding: FV = $10,000 x (1 + (15% / 365)) (365 x 1) = $11,617.98Continuous Compounding: FV = $10,000 x 2.7183 (15% x 1) = $11,618.34



With daily compounding, the total interest earned is $1,617.98, while with continuous compounding the total interest earned is $1,618.34, a marginal difference.




What is compound interest?
Compound interest is interest earned on interest you've received. When interest compounds, each subsequent interest payment will get larger because it is calculated using a new, higher balance. More frequent compounding means you'll earn more interest overall.




How does annual percentage yield (APY) relate to continuous compounding?
Annual percentage yield (APY) is the real rate of return on an investment, taking compounding interest into account. The APY of an account with more frequent, or continuous compounding will be higher than the APY of an account that has infrequent compounding, assuming they both have the same interest rate.




What are the most common compounding periods?
Depending on the situation, interest is typically compounded monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, or annually. Some accounts may even offer daily compounding, though compounding more frequently than that is incredibly unusual.




What is discrete compounding?
Discrete compounding is the opposite of continuous compounding. Instead of interest compounding constantly, it compounds at set intervals, such as daily or monthly.


   The Bottom Line  

Continuous compounding may be a theoretical concept that can't be achieved in reality, but it has real value for savers and investors. It allows savers to see the maximum amount they could earn in interest for a given period and can be useful when comparing to the actual yield of the account.
What Is a Contra Account?  

A contra account is used in a general ledger to reduce the value of a related account when the two are netted together. A contra account's natural balance is the opposite of the associated account. If a debit is the natural balance recorded in the related account, the contra account records a credit. For example, the contra account for a fixed asset is accumulated depreciation.





Key Takeaways

A contra account is an account used in a general ledger to reduce the value of a related account.They are useful to preserve the historical value in a main account while presenting a decrease or write-down in a separate contra account that nets to the current book value.Contra accounts are presented on the same financial statement as the associated account, typically appearing directly below it with a third line for the net amount.Note that accountants use contra accounts rather than reduce the value of the original account directly to keep financial accounting records clean.Key examples of contra accounts include accumulated depreciation and allowance for doubtful accounts.












Investopedia / Madelyn Goodnight


   Understanding a Contra Account  

Contra accounts are reported on the same financial statement as the associated account. For example, a contra account to accounts receivable, often called allowance for doubtful accounts, is a contra asset account.



This type of account could be called the allowance for doubtful accounts or a bad debt reserve. The balance in the allowance for doubtful accounts represents the dollar amount of the current accounts receivable balance that is expected to be uncollectible. The amount is reported on the balance sheet in the asset section immediately below accounts receivable. The net of these two figures is typically reported on a third line.



Accountants use contra accounts rather than reduce the value of the original account directly to keep financial accounting records clean. If a contra account is not used, it can be difficult to determine historical costs, which can make tax preparation more difficult and time-consuming.



By keeping the original dollar amount intact in the original account and reducing the figure in a separate account, the financial information is more transparent for financial reporting purposes. For example, if a piece of heavy machinery is purchased for $10,000, that $10,000 figure is maintained on the general ledger even as the asset's depreciation is recorded separately.






Contra accounts provide more detail to accounting figures and improve transparency in financial reporting.


   Types of Contra Accounts  

There are four key types of contra accounts—contra asset, contra liability, contra equity, and contra revenue.



Contra asset: Account reported along with other assets that naturally have a credit balance.Contra liability: Account reported along with other liabilities that naturally have a debit balance.Contra equity: Account reported along with other equity accounts that naturally have a debit balance.Contra revenue: Account reported along with other revenue accounts that naturally have a debit balance.



Contra asset accounts include allowance for doubtful accounts and accumulated depreciation. Contra asset accounts are recorded with a credit balance that decreases the balance of an asset. A key example of contra liabilities includes discounts on notes or bonds payable. Contra liabilities hold a debit balance. Contra liability accounts are not as popular as contra asset accounts.



A contra liability is an account in which activity is recorded as a debit balance and is used to decrease the balance of a liability. The balance of a contra liability account is a debit balance. This account decreases the value of the liability. Contra Liability a/c is not used as frequently as contra asset accounts. It is not classified as a liability since it does not represent a future obligation.



The third contra type is contra equity. These contras reduce the equity account and carry a debit balance. Contra equity reduces the total number of outstanding shares on the balance sheet. The key example of a contra equity account is Treasury stock, which represents the amount paid to buyback stock.



Last, for contra revenue accounts there are sales discounts, sales allowances, or sales returns. Contra revenue reduced gross revenue, resulting in net revenue. These contra revenue accounts tend to have a debit balance and are used to calculate net sales.


   How to Record a Contra Account  

When a contra asset account is first recorded in a journal entry, the offset is to an expense. For example, an increase in the form of a credit to allowance for doubtful accounts is also recorded as a debit to increase bad debt expense.



When accounting for assets, the difference between the asset's account balance and the contra account balance is referred to as the book value. There are two major methods of determining what should be booked into a contra account.



The allowance method of accounting allows a company to estimate what amount is reasonable to book into the contra account. The percentage of sales method assumes that the company cannot collect payment for a fixed percentage of goods or services that it has sold. Both methods result in an adjustment to book value.



For example, a company has $40,000 worth of accounts receivable at September month-end. It estimates 10% of its accounts receivable will be uncollectible and proceeds to create a credit entry of 10% x $40,000 = $4,000 in the contra account, allowance for doubtful accounts.



A debit will be made to the bad debt expense for $4,000 to balance the journal entry. Although the accounts receivable is not due in September, the company still has to report credit losses of $4,000 as bad debts expense in its income statement for the month. If accounts receivable is $40,000 and allowance for doubtful accounts is $4,000, the net book value reported on the balance sheet will be $36,000.



Those who are struggling with recording contra accounts may benefit from utilizing some of the best accounting software currently available.





Fast Fact

The difference between an asset's account balance and the contra account balance is known as the book value.


   Example of a Contra Account  

A major example of a contra account is an allowance for doubtful accounts. This contra asset reduces the balance of gross accounts receivable by an estimate of how many receivables will go uncollected. Notice on Amazon's balance sheet that the balance of accounts receivable is noted as being a net amount.















Amazon, Balance Sheet.



Amazon sheds more light on that net balance in the notes to the financial statements. The balance of the contra asset is composed of the estimate mentioned below.















Amazon, Balance Sheet (Notes).




What Is the Benefit of Using a Contra Account?
Contra accounts are used to reduce the value of the original account directly to keep financial accounting records clean. If a contra account is not used, it can be difficult to determine historical costs, which can make tax preparation more difficult and time-consuming.




What Are the Different Types of Contra Accounts?
There are four key types of contra accounts—contra asset, contra liability, contra equity, and contra revenue. Contra assets decrease the balance of a fixed or capital asset, carrying a credit balance. Contra liabilities reduce liability accounts and carry a debit balance. Contra equity accounts carry a debit balance and reduce equity accounts. Contra revenue accounts reduce revenue accounts and have a debit balance.




What Are Examples of a Contra Asset Account?
Key examples of contra asset accounts include allowance for doubtful accounts and accumulated depreciation. Allowance for doubtful accounts reduces accounts receivable. Accumulated depreciation reflects the reduction in value of a fixed asset.




Is a Contra Balance Negative or Positive?
Depending on how you view the account balance, a contra account balance can be negative or positive. On one hand, a contra asset represents a true, positive amount of something. In the Amazon example above, the company estimated roughly $1.4 billion of accounts receivable were uncollectable, and that uncollectable amount is positive.However, that $1.4 billion is used to reduce the balance of gross accounts receivable. Therefore, contra accounts, though they represent a positive amount, are used to net reduce a gross amount. For this reason, contra accounts are primarily seen as having negative balances because they are used to reduce the balance of another account.




Do Contra Accounts Have Debit or Credit Balances?
Contra assets have natural credit balances. Whereas assets normally have positive debit balances, contra assets, though still reported along with other assets, have an opposite type of natural balance.Contra liability, equity, and revenue accounts have natural debit balances. These three types of contra accounts are used to reduce liabilities, equity, and revenue which all have natural credit balances. Therefore, for these three, the debit balance actually represents a negative amount.


   The Bottom Line  

Contra accounts are used to reduce the original account directly, keeping financial accounting records clean. This allows for the easy determination of historical costs. This is particularly important for contra asset accounts. The difference between an asset's balance and the contra account asset balance is the book value.
What Is a Contract for Differences (CFD)?  

A contract for differences (CFD) is an arrangement made in financial derivatives trading where the differences in the settlement between the open and closing trade prices are cash-settled. There is no delivery of physical goods or securities with CFDs.



Contracts for differences is an advanced trading strategy used by experienced traders and is not allowed in the United States.





Key Takeaways

A contract for differences (CFD) is a financial contract that pays the differences in the settlement price between the open and closing trades.CFDs essentially allow investors to trade the direction of securities over the very short-term and are especially popular in FX and commodities products.CFDs are cash-settled but usually allow ample margin trading so that investors need only put up a small amount of the contract's notional payoff.












Investopedia / Julie Bang






   Understanding Contract for Differences (CFD)  

CFDs allow traders to trade in the price movement of securities and derivatives. Derivatives are financial investments that are derived from an underlying asset. Essentially, CFDs are used by investors to make price bets as to whether the price of the underlying asset or security will rise or fall.





Note

CFD traders may bet on the price moving up or downward. Traders who expect an upward movement in price will buy the CFD, while those who see the opposite downward movement will sell an opening position.



Should the buyer of a CFD see the asset's price rise, they will offer their holding for sale. The net difference between the purchase price and the sale price are netted together. The net difference representing the gain or loss from the trades is settled through the investor's brokerage account.



Conversely, if a trader believes a security's price will decline, an opening sell position can be placed. To close the position they must purchase an offsetting trade. Again, the net difference of the gain or loss is cash-settled through their account.


   Transacting in CFDs  

Contracts for differences can be used to trade many assets and securities including exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Traders will also use these products to speculate on the price moves in commodity futures contracts such as those for crude oil and corn. Futures contracts are standardized agreements or contracts with obligations to buy or sell a particular asset at a preset price with a future expiration date.






Although CFDs allow investors to trade the price movements of futures, they are not futures contracts by themselves. CFDs do not have expiration dates containing preset prices but trade like other securities with buy and sell prices.



CFDs trade over-the-counter (OTC) through a network of brokers that organize the market demand and supply for CFDs and make prices accordingly. In other words, CFDs are not traded on major exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The CFD is a tradable contract between a client and the broker, who are exchanging the difference in the initial price of the trade and its value when the trade is unwound or reversed.


   Advantages of a CFD  

CFDs provide traders with all of the benefits and risks of owning a security without actually owning it or having to take any physical delivery of the asset.



CFDs are traded on margin meaning the broker allows investors to borrow money to increase leverage or the size of the position to amply gains. Brokers will require traders to maintain specific account balances before they allow this type of transaction.



Trading on margin CFDs typically provides higher leverage than traditional trading. Standard leverage in the CFD market can be as low as a 2% margin requirement and as high as a 20% margin. Lower margin requirements mean less capital outlay and greater potential returns for the trader.



Typically, fewer rules and regulations surround the CFD market as compared to standard exchanges. As a result, CFDs can have lower capital requirements or cash required in a brokerage account. Often, traders can open an account for as little as $1,000 with a broker. Also, since CFDs mirror corporate actions taking place, a CFD owner can receive cash dividends increasing the trader’s return on investment. Most CFD brokers offer products in all major markets worldwide. Traders have easy access to any market that is open from the broker’s platform.



CFDs allow investors to easily take a long or short position or a buy and sell position. The CFD market typically does not have short-selling rules. An instrument may be shorted at any time. Since there is no ownership of the underlying asset, there is no borrowing or shorting cost. Also, few or no fees are charged for trading a CFD. Brokers make money from the trader paying the spread meaning the trader pays the ask price when buying, and takes the bid price when selling or shorting. The brokers take a piece or spread on each bid and ask price that they quote.


   Disadvantages of a CFD  

If the underlying asset experiences extreme volatility or price fluctuations, the spread on the bid and ask prices can be significant. Paying a large spread on entries and exits prevents profiting from small moves in CFDs decreasing the number of winning trades while increasing losses.



Since the CFD industry is not highly regulated, the broker’s credibility is based on its reputation and financial viability. As a result, CFDs are not available in the United States.



Since CFDs trade using leverage, investors holding a losing position can get a margin call from their broker, which requires additional funds to be deposited to balance out the losing position. Although leverage can amplify gains with CFDs, leverage can also magnify losses and traders are at risk of losing 100% of their investment. Also, if money is borrowed from a broker to trade, the trader will be charged a daily interest rate amount.





Pros

CFDs allow investors to trade the price movement of assets including ETFs, stock indices, and commodity futures.
CFDs provide investors with all of the benefits and risks of owning a security without actually owning it.
CFDs use leverage allowing investors to put up a small percentage of the trade amount with a broker.
CFDs allow investors to easily take a long or short position or a buy and sell position.



Cons

Although leverage can amplify gains with CFDs, leverage can also magnify losses.
Extreme price volatility or fluctuations can lead to wide spreads between the bid (buy) and ask (sell) prices from a broker.
The CFD industry is not highly regulated, not allowed in the U.S., and traders are reliant on a broker’s credibility and reputation.
Investors holding a losing position can get a margin call from their broker requiring the deposit of additional funds.





   Example of a CFD  

An investor wants to buy a CFD on the SPDR S&P 500 (SPY), which is an exchange traded fund that tracks the S&P 500 Index. The broker requires 5% down for the trade.



The investor buys 100 shares of the SPY for $250 per share for a $25,000 position from which only 5% or $1,250 is paid initially to the broker.



Two months later the SPY is trading at $300 per share, and the trader exits the position with a profit of $50 per share or $5,000 in total.



The CFD is cash-settled; the initial position of $25,000 and the closing position of $30,000 ($300 * 100 shares) are netted out, and the gain of $5,000 is credited to the investor's account.




What Is One Difference Between a Contract for Differences (CFD) and a Futures Contract?
Futures contracts have an expiration date at which time there is an obligation to buy or sell the asset at a preset price. CFDs are different in that there is no expiration date and you never own the underlying asset.




Can U.S. Citizens Buy CFDs?
CFDs are not allowed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The reasoning is that the over-the-counter (OTC) products are unregulated and pose a risk of larger losses.




What Countries Are CFDs Legal in?
CFDs are allowed in several other countries with listed OTC markets. These countries include Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, and the United Kingdom.


   The Bottom Line  

Investing in CFDs allows you to trade the price movements of stock indices, ETFs, and commodity futures. You get all the benefits and risks of owning a security without actually owning it. Using leverage allows investors to put up only a small percentage of the trade amount with a broker. The drawback is that such leverage can lead to significant losses due to extreme price volatility. As well, the limited regulation of the CFD market means U.S. residents cannot trade them.
What Is a Contractionary Policy?  

A contractionary policy is a monetary measure to reduce government spending or the rate of monetary expansion by a central bank. It is a macroeconomic tool used to combat rising inflation.



The main contractionary policies employed by the United States government include raising interest rates, increasing bank reserve requirements, and selling government securities.





Key Takeaways

Contractionary policies are macroeconomic tools designed to combat economic distortions caused by an overheating economy.Contractionary policies aim to reduce the rates of monetary expansion by putting some limits on the flow of money in the economy.Contractionary policies are typically issued during times of extreme inflation or when there has been a period of increased speculation and capital investment fueled by prior expansionary policies.


   Understanding Contractionary Policies  

Contractionary policies aim to hinder potential distortions to the capital markets. Distortions include high inflation from an expanding money supply, unreasonable asset prices, or crowding-out effects, where a spike in interest rates leads to a reduction in private investment spending such that it dampens the initial increase of total investment spending.



While the initial effect of the contractionary policy is to reduce nominal gross domestic product (GDP), which is defined as the gross domestic product (GDP) evaluated at current market prices, it often ultimately results in sustainable economic growth and smoother business cycles.



Contractionary policy notably occurred in the early 1980s when the then-Federal Reserve chair Paul Volcker finally ended the soaring inflation of the 1970s. At their peak in 1981, target federal fund interest rates neared 20%. Measured inflation levels declined from nearly 14% in 1980 to 3.2% in 1983.


   Tools Used for Contractionary Policies  

Both monetary and fiscal policies implement strategies to combat rising inflation and help to contract economic growth.


  Monetary Policy  

Increasing interest rates reduces inflation by limiting the amount of active money circulating in the economy. This also quells unsustainable speculation and capital investment that previous expansionary policies may have triggered.Increasing bank reserve requirements, the level of required reserves held by banks effectively decreases the funds available for lending to businesses and consumers.  Selling assets like U.S. Treasury notes, the Federal Reserve uses open-market operations as a tool. These sales lower the market price of such assets and increase their yields.






Contractionary policy is often connected to monetary policy, with central banks such as the U.S. Federal Reserve, able to enact the policy by raising interest rates.


  Fiscal Policy  

Increasing taxes reduces the money supply and decreases the purchasing power of consumers. It may also slow down unsustainable production or lower the value of assets.Reducing government spending in areas such as subsidies, welfare programs, contracts for public works, or the number of government employees.


   Real-World Example  

The COVID-19 pandemic affected businesses' ability to produce and consumers' ability to consume. Many governments resorted to large fiscal stimuli which boosted consumption leading to supply chain bottlenecks and price tensions.



The government support throughout the crisis supported a strong economic rebound, with both GDP and employment recovering at a remarkable pace through 2021.



However, in 2022, with growing signs of inflation, and to achieve maximum employment and keep the inflation at the rate of 2 percent over the long run, the Federal Reserve decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate.



The Fed views ongoing increases in the target range as appropriate to attain a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to return inflation to 2 percent over time. 


   Contractionary Policy vs. Expansionary Policy  

A contractionary policy attempts to slow the economy by reducing the money supply and fending off inflation.



An expansionary policy is an effort that central banks use to stimulate an economy by boosting demand through monetary and fiscal stimulus. Expansionary policy is intended to prevent or moderate economic downturns and recessions.




What Are the Effects of Contractionary Policy?
A contractionary policy often results in the tightening of credit through increased interest rates, increased unemployment, reduced business investment, and reduced consumer spending. There is commonly an overall reduction in the gross domestic product (GDP).




What Is the Main Goal of Contractionary Policy?
The purpose of a contractionary policy is to slow growth to a healthy economic level, typically between 2% to 3% a year for the GDP. An economy that grows more than 3% creates negative consequences, including inflation.




Why Is Contractionary Policy Unpopular?
Contractionary policies require elected officials to increase taxes and reduce government spending, like social and welfare programs, both unpopular with voters.


   The Bottom Line  

A contractionary policy is a tool used to reduce government spending or the rate of monetary expansion by a central bank to combat rising inflation. The main contractionary policies employed by the United States include raising interest rates, increasing bank reserve requirements, and selling government securities. Contractionary policies are often difficult to implement as they may also include increases in tax rates, higher rates of unemployment, and a decrease in government programs and subsidies.
What Is a Contrarian?  

Contrarian investing is an investment style in which investors purposefully go against prevailing market trends by selling when others are buying and buying when most investors are selling. Berkshire Hathaway Chair and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Warren Buffett is a famous contrarian investor.



Contrarian investors believe that people who say the market is going up do so only when they are fully invested and have no further purchasing power. At this point, the market is at a peak. So, when people predict a downturn, they have already sold out, and the market can only go up at this point.





Key Takeaways

Contrarian investing is an investment strategy that involves bucking against existing market trends to generate profits.The idea is that markets are subject to herding behavior augmented by fear and greed, making markets periodically over- and underpriced.The contrarian sees buying opportunities in stocks that are currently selling for below their intrinsic value. Being a contrarian can be rewarding, but it is often a risky strategy that may take a long period of time to pay off.Another drawback associated with being a contrarian investor is the need to spend a good deal of time researching stocks to find undervalued opportunities.


   Understanding Contrarian Strategy  

Contrarian investing is, as the name implies, a strategy that involves going against the grain of investor sentiment at a given time. The principles behind contrarian investing can be applied to individual stocks, an industry as a whole, or even entire markets.



A contrarian investor enters the market when others are feeling negative about it. The contrarian believes the value of the market or stock is below its intrinsic value and thus represents an opportunity. In essence, an abundance of pessimism among other investors has pushed the price of the stock below what it should be, and the contrarian investor will buy that before the broader sentiment returns and the share prices rebound.



According to David Dreman, contrarian investor and author of Contrarian Investment Strategies: The Next Generation, investors overreact to news developments and overprice "hot" stocks and underestimate the earnings of distressed stocks. This overreaction results in limited upward price movement and steep falls for stocks that are "hot" and leaves room for the contrarian investor to choose underpriced stocks.


   Special Considerations  

Contrarian investors often target distressed stocks and then sell them once the share price has recovered and other investors begin targeting the company as well. Contrarian investing is built around the idea that the herd instinct that can take control of market direction doesn't make for a good investing strategy.



However, this sentiment can lead to missing out on gains if broad bullish sentiment in the markets proves true, leading to market gains even as contrarians have already sold their positions. Similarly, an undervalued stock targeted by contrarians as an investment opportunity may remain undervalued if the market sentiment remains bearish.


   Contrarian Investing vs. Value Investing  

Contrarian investing is similar to value investing because both value and contrarian investors look for stocks whose share price is lower than the intrinsic value of the company. Value investors generally believe that the market overreacts to good and bad news, so they believe that stock price movements in the short term don’t correspond to a company's long-term fundamentals.



Many value investors hold that there is a fine line between value investing and contrarian investing, since both strategies look for undervalued securities to turn a profit based on their reading of the current market sentiment.


   Examples of Contrarian Investors  

The most prominent example of a contrarian investor is Warren Buffett. "Be fearful when others are greedy, and greedy when others are fearful" is one of his most famous quotes and sums up his approach to contrarian investing.



At the height of the 2008 financial crisis, when markets were tumbling amidst a wave of bankruptcy filings, Buffett counseled investors to buy American stocks. As an example, he purchased equities for American companies, including investment bank Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS). Ten years later, his advice proved to be correct. From 2008 to 2018, Goldman's stock had jumped by approximately 239%.



Michael Burry, a California-based neurologist-turned-hedge fund owner, is another example of a contrarian investor. Through his research in 2005, Burry determined that the subprime market was mispriced and overheated. His hedge fund Scion Capital shorted the riskiest parts of the subprime mortgage market and profited from them. His story was written up into a book, The Big Short, by Michael Lewis and has been made into a movie of the same name.






Sir John Templeton was a noted contrarian investor and founded the Templeton Growth Fund in 1954. With dividends reinvested, a $10,000 investment in the fund at inception was worth $2 million by 1992.


   Limitations of Contrarian Investing  

Investors interested in employing a contrarian investing strategy should be aware of some of the strategy's drawbacks. It can be challenging to find undervalued stocks and contrarians typically spend a great deal of time researching stocks and various industries to find potential investment opportunities. It will not be enough to rely on simply doing the opposite of the prevailing market sentiment. It's important for contrarians to develop their skills in fundamental analysis to accurately measure a security's intrinsic value.



Contrarians may have periods where their portfolios underperform. It may take a significant amount of time before an undervalued stock begins to show gains. In the meantime, the contrarian investor may have to endure paper losses on their investments.




What Is Contrarian Investing?
Contrarian investing refers to an investing strategy that looks for profit opportunities in trades that go against current market sentiment. For example, if the market is bullish, the contrarian investor is bearish and will look for opportunities to sell. Conversely, if the market is bearish, the contrarian is bullish and will look for opportunities to buy.




Who Are Some Famous Contrarian Investors?
Berkshire Hathaway's Warren Buffett and Charlie Munger are two of the most well-known contrarian investors. David Dreman, investment company founder and author of several books on contrarian investing, is another prominent contrarian. Ray Dalio, Sir John Templeton, Michael Burry, and George Soros are all investors who have made a name for themselves as contrarians.




How Have Billionaire Contrarians Used Deep Value to Beat the Market?
Deep value investing is a term often used in conjunction with billionaire contrarians who pick their stock investments based on their analysis that a particular company is trading at many multiples below intrinsic or book value. These billionaires look for companies with share prices that have been unfairly and significantly discounted by the market. They will then acquire large stakes in these companies with the anticipation that over time they will profit from the share price increase.





Note

Investopedia does not provide tax, investment, or financial services and advice. The information is presented without consideration of the investment objectives, risk tolerance, or financial circumstances of any specific investor and might not be suitable for all investors. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal.
What Is Contributed Capital?  

Contributed capital, also known as paid-in capital, is the cash and other assets that shareholders have given a company in exchange for stock. Investors make capital contributions when a company issues equity shares based on a price that shareholders are willing to pay for them. The total amount of contributed capital or paid-in-capital represents their stake or ownership in the company.



Contributed capital may also refer to a company's balance sheet item listed under stockholders' equity, often shown alongside the balance sheet entry for additional paid-in capital.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Understanding Contributed Capital  

Contributed capital is the total value of the stock that shareholders have bought directly from the issuing company. It includes the money from initial public offerings (IPOs), direct listings, direct public offerings, and secondary offerings—including issues of preferred stock. It also includes the receipt of fixed assets in exchange for stock and the reduction of a liability in exchange for stock.



Contributed capital can be compared with additional paid-in capital, and the difference between the two values will equal the premium paid by investors over and above the par value of the company's shares. The par value is merely an accounting value of each of the shares to be offered and is not equivalent to the market value that investors are willing to pay.






When companies repurchase shares and return capital to shareholders, the shares bought back are listed at their repurchase price, which reduces shareholders' equity.





Key Takeaways

Contributed capital, also known as paid-in capital, is the cash and other assets that shareholders have given a company in exchange for stock. This is the price that shareholders paid for their stake in the company.Contributed capital is reported in the shareholder’s equity section of the balance sheet and usually split into two different accounts: common stock and additional paid-in capital account.



Preferred shares sometimes have par values that are more than marginal, but most common shares today have par values of just a few pennies. Because of this, "additional paid-in capital" tends to be representative of the total paid-in capital figure and is sometimes shown by itself on the balance sheet.


  Capital Contributions  

It's important to distinguish that capital contributions, which are an injection of cash into a company, can come in other forms besides the sale of equity shares. For example, an owner might take out a loan and use the proceeds to make a capital contribution to the company. Businesses can also receive capital contributions in the form of non-cash assets such as buildings and equipment. These scenarios are all types of capital contributions and increase owners' equity. However, the term contributed capital is typically reserved for the amount of money received from issuing shares and not other forms of capital contributions.


   Calculating Contributed Capital  

Contributed capital is reported in the shareholder’s equity section of the balance sheet and usually split into two different accounts: common stock and additional paid-in capital account. In other words, contributed capital includes the par value—or nominal value—of the stock, found in the common stock account, and the amount of money over and above the par value that shareholders were willing to pay for their shares—the share premium—found in the additional paid-in capital account.



The common stock account is also known as share capital account, and the additional paid-in capital account is also known as the share premium account.


   Example of Contributed Capital  

For example, a company issues 5,000 $1 par value shares to investors. The investors pay $10 a share, so the company raises $50,000 in equity capital. As a result, the company records $5,000 to the common stock account and $45,000 to the paid-in capital in excess of par. Both of these accounts added together equal the total amount stockholders were willing to pay for their shares. In other words, the contributed capital equals $50,000.
What Is Contribution Margin?  

The contribution margin can be stated on a gross or per-unit basis. It represents the incremental money generated for each product/unit sold after deducting the variable portion of the firm's costs.



The contribution margin is computed as the selling price per unit, minus the variable cost per unit. Also known as dollar contribution per unit, the measure indicates how a particular product contributes to the overall profit of the company.



It provides one way to show the profit potential of a particular product offered by a company and shows the portion of sales that helps to cover the company's fixed costs. Any remaining revenue left after covering fixed costs is the profit generated.





Key Takeaways

The contribution margin represents the portion of a product's sales revenue that isn't used up by variable costs, and so contributes to covering the company's fixed costs.The concept of contribution margin is one of the fundamental keys in break-even analysis.Low contribution margins are present in labor-intensive companies with few fixed expenses, while capital-intensive, industrial companies have higher fixed costs and thus, higher contribution margins.


   Formula and Calculation of Contribution Margin  

The contribution margin is computed as the difference between the sale price of a product and the variable costs associated with its production and sales process. This is expressed through the following formula:


















C


=


R


−


V







\begin{aligned}&\textbf{C}=\textbf{R}-\textbf{V}\end{aligned}


​C=R−V​



Where C is the contribution margin, R is the total revenue, and V represents variable costs.



It may also be useful to express the contribution margin as a fraction of total revenue. In this case, the Contribution Margin Ratio (CR) is expressed as the contribution margin, divided by total revenues in the same time period:


















CR


=




(R


−


V)



R








\begin{aligned}&\textbf{CR}=\frac{\textbf{(R}-\textbf{V)}}{\textbf{R}}\end{aligned}


​CR=R(R−V)​​


   What Contribution Margin Can Tell You  

The contribution margin is the foundation for break-even analysis used in the overall cost and sales price planning for products. The contribution margin helps to separate out the fixed cost and profit components coming from product sales and can be used to determine the selling price range of a product, the profit levels that can be expected from the sales, and structure sales commissions paid to sales team members, distributors, or commission agents.


   Fixed Cost vs. Variable Cost  

One-time costs for items such as machinery are a typical example of a fixed cost that stays the same regardless of the number of units sold, although it becomes a smaller percentage of each unit's cost as the number of units sold increases.



Other examples include services and utilities that may come at a fixed cost and do not have an impact on the number of units produced or sold. For example, if the government offers unlimited electricity at a fixed monthly cost of $100, then manufacturing 10 units or 10,000 units will have the same fixed cost towards electricity.



In these kinds of scenarios, electricity will not be considered in the contribution margin formula as it represents a fixed cost. However, if the electricity cost increases in proportion to consumption, it will be considered a variable cost.



Fixed costs are often considered sunk costs that once spent cannot be recovered. These cost components should not be considered while taking decisions about cost analysis or profitability measures.


   Contribution Margin vs. Gross Profit Margin  

The contribution margin is different from the gross profit margin, the difference between sales revenue and the cost of goods sold. While contribution margins only count the variable costs, the gross profit margin includes all of the costs that a company incurs in order to make sales.



The contribution margin shows how much additional revenue is generated by making each additional unit product after the company has reached the breakeven point. In other words, it measures how much money each additional sale "contributes" to the company's total profits.


   Example of Contribution Margin  

Say a machine for manufacturing ink pens comes at a cost of $10,000. Manufacturing one ink pen requires $0.2 worth of raw materials like plastic, ink and nib, another $0.1 goes towards the electricity charges for running the machine to produce one ink pen, and $0.3 is the labor charge to manufacture one ink pen.



These three components constitute the variable cost per unit. The total variable cost of manufacturing an ink pen comes to ($0.2 + $0.1 + $0.3) = $0.6 per unit. If a total of 100 ink pens are manufactured, the total variable cost will come to ($0.6 * 100 units) = $60, while manufacturing 10,000 ink pens will lead to a total variable cost of ($0.6 * 10,000 units) = $6,000. Such total variable cost increases in direct proportion to the number of units of the product getting manufactured.



However, ink pen production will be impossible without the manufacturing machine which comes at a fixed cost of $10,000. This cost of the machine represents a fixed cost (and not a variable cost) as its charges do not increase based on the units produced. Such fixed costs are not considered in the contribution margin calculations.



If a total of 10,000 ink pens are manufactured using the machine at a variable cost of $6,000 and at a fixed cost of $10,000, the total manufacturing cost comes to $16,000. The per-unit cost will then be computed as $16,000/10,000 = $1.6 per unit. If each ink pen is sold at a price of $2 per unit, the profit per unit comes to


















(


SP


−


TC


)


=


(


$


2.0


−


$


1.6


)


=


$


0.4


 per Unit
















where:
















SP


=


Sales price
















TC


=


Total costs







\begin{aligned}&(\text{SP}-\text{TC})=(\$2.0-\$1.6)=\$0.4\text{ per Unit}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{SP}=\text{Sales price}\\&\text{TC}=\text{Total costs}\end{aligned}


​(SP−TC)=($2.0−$1.6)=$0.4 per Unitwhere:SP=Sales priceTC=Total costs​



However, the contribution margin does not account for fixed cost components and considers only the variable cost components. The incremental profit earned for each unit sold as represented by contribution margin will be:


















(


SP


−


TVC


)


=


(


$


2.0


−


$


0.6


)


=


$


1.4


 per Unit
















where:
















SP


=


Sales price
















TVC


=


Total variable costs







\begin{aligned}&(\text{SP}-\text{TVC})=(\$2.0-\$0.6)=\$1.4\text{ per Unit}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{SP}=\text{Sales price}\\&\text{TVC}=\text{Total variable costs}\end{aligned}


​(SP−TVC)=($2.0−$0.6)=$1.4 per Unitwhere:SP=Sales priceTVC=Total variable costs​



A key characteristic of the contribution margin is that it remains fixed on a per unit basis irrespective of the number of units manufactured or sold. On the other hand, the net profit per unit may increase/decrease non-linearly with the number of units sold as it includes the fixed costs.


   Uses of Contribution Margin  

The contribution margin can help company management select from among several possible products that compete to use the same set of manufacturing resources. Say that a company has a pen-manufacturing machine that is capable of producing both ink pens and ball-point pens, and management must make a choice to produce only one of them.



If the contribution margin for an ink pen is higher than that of a ball pen, the former will be given production preference owing to its higher profitability potential. Such decision-making is common to companies that manufacture a diversified portfolio of products, and management must allocate available resources in the most efficient manner to products with the highest profit potential.


  Contribution Margin for Investors  

Investors and analysts may also attempt to calculate the contribution margin figure for a company's blockbuster products. For instance, a beverage company may have 15 different products but the bulk of its profits may come from one specific beverage.



Along with the company management, vigilant investors may keep a close eye on the contribution margin of a high-performing product relative to other products in order to assess the company's dependence on its star performer.



The company steering its focus away from investing or expanding the manufacturing of the star product, or the emergence of a competitor product, may indicate that the profitability of the company and eventually its share price may get impacted.


   How to Improve Contribution Margin  

Based on the contribution margin formula, there are two ways for a company to increase its contribution margins; They can find ways to increase revenues, or they can reduce their variable costs.



Variable costs tend to represent expenses such as materials, shipping, and marketing, Companies can reduce these costs by identifying alternatives, such as using cheaper materials or alternative shipping providers.



Alternatively, the company can also try finding ways to improve revenues. For example, they can increase advertising to reach more customers, or they can simply increase the costs of their products. However, these strategies could ultimately backfire and result in even lower contribution margins.


   When to Use Contribution Margin Analysis  

Investors examine contribution margins to determine if a company is using its revenue effectively. A high contribution margin indicates that a company tends to bring in more money than it spends.



Very low or negative contribution margin values indicate economically nonviable products whose manufacturing and sales eat up a large portion of the revenues.



Low values of contribution margins can be observed in the labor-intensive industry sectors like manufacturing as the variable costs are higher, while high values of contribution margins are prevalent in the capital-intensive sectors.



The concept of contribution margin is applicable at various levels of manufacturing, business segments, and products. The figure can be computed for an entire corporation, for a particular subsidiary, for a particular business division or unit, for a particular center or facility, for distribution or sales channel, for a product line, or for individual products.




How Do You Calculate Contribution Margin?
Contribution margin is calculated as Revenue - Variable Costs. The contribution margin ratio is calculated as (Revenue - Variable Costs) / Revenue.




What Is a Good Contribution Margin?
The best contribution margin is 100%, so the closer the contribution margin is to 100%, the better. The higher the number, the better a company is at covering its overhead costs with money on hand.




What Is the Difference Between Contribution Margin and Profit Margin?
Profit margin is the amount of revenue that remains after the direct production costs are subtracted. Contribution margin is a measure of the profitability of each individual product that a business sells.


   The Bottom Line  

The contribution margin represents the revenue that a company gains by selling each additional unit of a product or good. This is one of several metrics that companies and investors use to make data-driven decisions about their business. As with other figures, it is important to consider contribution margins in relation to other metrics rather than in isolation.
What Is a Controller?  

A controller is an individual who has responsibility for all accounting-related activities, including high-level accounting, managerial accounting, and finance activities, within a company. The duties of a controller include assisting with the preparation of the operating budgets, overseeing financial reporting and performing essential duties relating to payroll.



Across all of the duties, a controller often works most with the collection, analysis, and consolidation of financial data. Although the controller doesn't always maintain the annual budget, the controller position monitors variances, summarizes trends and investigates budget deficiencies. The controller may reports material budgeting variances or expenditure variances to upper management.





Key Takeaways

A controller acts as an overseer of a company's financial health by taking ownership of the financial reporting process.A controller oversees internal control implementation, assists with budget preparation, ensures reporting compliance, and manages the transaction reporting process.Controllers often have at least a decade of relevant work experience and a degree, though many companies now seek candidates with a CPA license.Controllers vary from CFOs and VPs of Finance, as controllers are usually more involved in the daily transactional aspects of overseeing a company's performance.According to Glassdoor, controllers made an average of $156,000 per year at the end of 2021.


   Understanding Financial Controllers  

Controller functions vary across companies owing to the size and complexity of the business and the industry. Smaller companies demand more versatility of the controller, while larger companies are able to disperse the following job responsibilities across other employees including the chief financial officer and treasurer.



Financial controllers are often the head financial position in charge of overseeing that historical, actual financial transactions are being reported properly. This may range across all finances departments including accounts payable, purchasing, vendor management, treasury, financial reporting, and financial planning.



The controller of an organization may partake in the recruiting, selection and training of staff as the controller often has a variety of finance or accounting managers reporting directly to them. The position requires appraising job results, leading employees and performing disciplinary actions as necessary.


   Roles of Financial Controllers  

A joint publication by the Institute of Management Accountants and Deloitte Development LLC outlined the four primary roles a controller takes. These four roles include:



Steward. Controllers are financial stewards by managing risk and preserving assets. This includes ensuring that internal controls have been implemented and that internal processes are being followed. The controller often plays a part in external audit functions by collaborating with external auditors to ensure financial reporting compliance.
Operator. Controllers are financial operators by overseeing the day-to-day financial operations from a very high level. This includes ensuring vendor set-up, invoice processing, payment remittance, accounting software record-keeping, and purchasing functions are all performing as expected.
Strategist. Controllers are financial strategists by guiding the appropriate direction of the company. For example, a controller is often involved in accounting software implementation programs if the must be financial reporting feedback on the modules needed, customizations requested, or shortfalls of what is being offered.
Catalyst. Controllers are financial catalysts by putting in place processes, then ensuring the new plans are being executed. This includes ensuring that external reporting or filing deadlines are met and that specific changes imposed by external regulatory agencies have been followed. For example, this may related to tax statement distributions or audited external financial statements.






In terms of job opportunities, the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) projects a 10-year growth outlook from 2021-2031 for financial managers (controllers) of 17%, which is "much faster than average."


   Duties of Financial Controllers  

The role of the controller will be different across every company. For many, the controller will take on at least some of the following tasks:



Manage cash flow. This includes forecasting cash flow needs, planning for foreign currency needs in advance, and alerting upper management for cash flow deficiencies.
Act as audit liaison. This includes meeting with external audit staff, being receptive to audit findings, implementing reporting changes, and communicating to upper management or the board of directors the outcomes of the audit.
Monitor internal controls. This includes gathering feedback from audit personnel, working with managers on designing proper control functions, and gathering data on the effectiveness of the internal control.
Approve invoices. This includes having a higher dollar approval threshold to act as a control for large purchases.
Assist in budget preparation. This includes feeding individuals around the company data and information on historical spending across a variety of general ledger coding.
Minimize financial risk. This includes being aware of current processes, understanding company weaknesses, engaging employees with training, and openly communicating areas of opportunity to better safeguard assets.
Ensure financial compliance. This includes understanding external reporting requirements, ensuring proper resources are on hand to meet those requirements and overseeing the final product being delivered to external parties.
Compile financial reporting. This includes being aware of recent changes to financial reporting practices, overseeing a staff that directly contributes to the financial statement preparation process, and sometimes certifying that the financial statements have been accurately prepared to the best of their knowledge.
Identify cost savings. This includes understanding where operational efficiencies lie, how staff can be best utilized, what reporting functions are being duplicated, and what resources the finance department really needs.
Mentor financial staff. This includes being a leader to the controller's direct reports by involving them in higher-level discussions.






According to Glassdoor, a controller makes a median of roughly $156,000 per year. This includes $111,000 per year of base pay and almost $45,000 in additional forms of compensation.


   Skillset of Financial Controllers  

To become a financial controller, finance professionals must often have achieved proficiency in three aspects of their career: education, experience, and licensure.



Regarding education, becoming a financial controller almost always requires at least a bachelor's degree in accounting, finance, business administration, or a similar field. In most situations, a master's degree is preferred, with many companies now making a master's degree a requirement.



Though there is no industry-wide requirement on the amount of work experience a controller must have, most financial professionals must obtain at least five to ten years of professional experience to be considered for a controller role. Again, a controller at a smaller company may have much smaller requirements than a large public corporation that will seek 20+ years of experience in a related, relevant industry. Companies may require that a controller candidate have public accounting experience.



Last, it is not an industry requirement to obtain a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), Certified Management Accountant (CMA), Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA), or any other type of licensure. For many, these licensures will help and may be a preferred requirement for the role. For larger public companies, controllers will often be required to have at least a CPA license.


   Career Path of Controllers  

As every company will require different qualifications, there is no single career path to becoming a controller. However, many controllers get their start by working in the accounting field, often in public accounting. For finance professionals most serious about achieving controller roles, they must often seek out Big Four positions and earn escalating responsibilities over several years.



After moving to the corporate or private sector, a controller may continue to develop skills as an accountant booking transactions or manager overseeing the operations of a specific finance department. This includes developing gaps related to receivables reporting, payroll, quarterly financial reporting, or internal controls.



Last, controllers often transition into the role of assistant controller before making the jump to a full controller role. An assistant controller is simply a more junior position that may perform many of the same tasks as a controller. However, the junior controller may not take full ownership of responsibility for outcomes as this may transition to a controller. Also, a company may employ a junior status to candidates that must first demonstrate proficiency in the role before getting promoted.


   Accounting vs. Controlling  

A controller is engrained in a company's financial accounting process. However, the controller may not do direct accounting themselves, and there is a difference between accounting and controlling. In financial management, controlling is the act of ensuring data is recorded accurately and on time. This is a broader function of accounting, as the controlling function may go behind recording transactions.



For example, a controller may oversee the accounts payable department responsible for 1099 reporting. Though this process is unrelated to internal accounting transactions, the controller may be a stakeholder in the process and give feedback on process improvement implementations. Whereas an accounts payable clerk is responsible for the accounting of liabilities tied to invoices, a controller may be more concerned with the overall accurate and timeliness in which invoices are being processes and payments remit.






For larger companies, controllers report up to a CFO or other executive. The controller is usually not part of the executive leadership team.


   Controller vs. Other Financial Roles  

Depending on the size and organizational layout of a company, the controller may hold more than one title or be responsible for multiple aspects of finance. In general, especially for larger companies, there are differences between controllers and other high-ranking financial positions.


  Controller vs. Chief Financial Officer (CFO)  

Although both the controller and CFO of a company are leaders in finance, they are often two separate positions responsible for different tasks. A controller is more likely to be entangled in general ledgers, trial balances, and financial reports being delivered to more senior management. Meanwhile, a CFO utilizes these reports to focus on more broad, big-picture company positioning.



In general, CFOs often take a greater presence in external-facing tasks including mergers, acquisitions, or involvement with investors. Meanwhile, financial controllers own more of the internal reporting process including implementing internal controls, managing the month-end close schedule, and ensuring financial accuracy.


  Controller vs. Vice President of Finance  

In many situations, a company's vice president of finance mimics the traditional role of CFO. A vice president is often tasked with the highest-level of financial and accounting oversight, while a controller's role is more limited to the financial preparation and management of the financial reporting process. For companies with both a controller and vice president of finance, the controller would most likely report directly to the vice president.


  Controller vs. FP&A Director  

Financial controllers are in charge of the past; they review historical transactions and ensure reporting is done correctly. These reports may then be delivered to a financial planning and analysis (FP&A) leader. This FP&A director relies on their team to build budgets, forecasts, and long-term plans based on the future of the company.



A controller's role is heavily (if not exclusively) rooted in dealing with actual transactions. Overseeing both revenue and expense reporting, a controller often does not deal in theory. Meanwhile, an FP&A director leverages historical data to devise future plans that may or may not materialize. These plans may rotate on a quarterly basis if the company decides to reforecast any projections.


  Controller vs. Comptroller  

A variation of the controller position is called a comptroller. A comptroller is typically a more senior position that is more commonly found in government or nonprofit organizations. A controller and comptroller simply have similar roles in different industries.




Who Reports to the Controller?
A controller often oversees the department leads within finance for each respective department tied to financial reporting. This may include the accounts payable lead, procurement lead, purchasing lead, financial reporting manager, or payroll manager.




Is a Controller the Same As CFO or VP of Finance?
A controller is not the same as a CFO or VP of Finance. A CFO or VP of Finance are often higher-level positions that are on the executive team. Meanwhile, a controller is usually a lower-level position that is less involved in strategic planning or external affairs and mostly involved in internal reporting.




What Qualifications Does a Controller Need?
A controller must often have around at least 10 years of professional experience, though larger public companies will often require more. Though an accounting or finance license is not always required, a controller may need to carry a CPA license. A controller usually needs to have at least some sort of higher education as well.




Why Is a Controller Important?
A controller is important to finance as they control the risk and reporting aspect of the company. A controller is the point person for making sure the financial reporting is done correctly. They are also the person to understand why inaccuracies may exist, what changes must be put in place, and how those changes will impact future reports.


   The Bottom Line  

A financial controller is a higher-level finance position that takes the responsibility over the financial reporting process. Not quite an executive-level position at most companies, a controller oversees many of the processes that come together to deliver financial statements. A controller also works with the external audit team, assists internal managers will budget preparation, and identifies areas of opportunity to mitigate risk and employ cost savings.
What Is a Conventional Mortgage or Loan?  

A conventional mortgage is a homebuyer’s loan made through a private lender. Compared to a Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loan, a conventional loan often offers a higher interest rate. It can also require a higher credit score to qualify.



Conventional loans are not offered or secured by a government entity. Instead, these mortgages are available through private lenders, such as banks, credit unions, and mortgage companies.



However, some conventional mortgages can be guaranteed by the two government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs): the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. (Freddie Mac).





Key Takeaways

A conventional mortgage or conventional loan is a homebuyer’s loan that is not offered or secured by a government entity.It is available through or guaranteed by a private lender or the two government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs): Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.Potential borrowers need to complete an official mortgage application and supply required documents, their credit history, and current credit score.Conventional loan interest rates tend to be higher than those of government-backed mortgages, such as Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loans.


   Understanding Conventional Mortgages and Loans  

Conventional mortgages typically have a fixed rate of interest, which means that the interest rate does not change throughout the life of the loan. Conventional mortgages or loans are not guaranteed by the federal government and, as a result, typically have stricter lending requirements by banks and creditors. 



There are a few government agencies that secure mortgages for banks, such as the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), which offers low down payments and no closing costs. Two other agencies are the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA’s) Rural Housing Service, neither of which requires a down payment. However, there are requirements that borrowers must meet to qualify for these programs.






Upfront fees on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac home loans changed in May 2023. Fees were increased for homebuyers with higher credit scores, such as 740 or higher, while they were decreased for homebuyers with lower credit scores, such as those below 640. Another change: Your down payment will influence what your fee is. The higher your down payment, the lower your fees, though it will still depend on your credit score. Fannie Mae provides the Loan-Level Price Adjustments on its website.


   Example of Conventional Mortgage  

If you meet the relatively strict requirements to qualify for a conventional mortgage, this can be an inexpensive way to borrow money to buy property.



If, for example, you took out a conventional mortgage to buy a home worth $500,000, had a $100,000 down payment (that’s 20%), and a good credit score of 650, you might be able to get a conventional mortgage with a locked-in rate of 3.4% (as of July 2022). This would equate to a monthly payment of around $2,500 on a 30-year loan: $1,800 in principal and interest payments, and around $700 in taxes and insurance.


   Conventional Mortgage vs. FHA Mortgage  

The primary difference between conventional and FHA mortgages is that FHA loans are designed to make homeownership possible and easier for low- to moderate-income borrowers who may not otherwise be able to get financing because of a lack of or a poor credit history, or because they have limited savings.



Those who qualify for an FHA loan require a lower down payment. And the credit requirements aren’t nearly as strict as other mortgage loans—even those with credit scores below 580 may get financing. These loans are not granted by the FHA itself. Instead, they are advanced by FHA-approved lenders.



In contrast, to qualify for a conventional loan, consumers typically must have stellar credit reports with no significant blemishes and credit scores of at least 680. Conventional loan interest rates vary depending on the amount of the down payment, the consumer’s choice of mortgage product, and current market conditions.


   Conventional vs. Conforming  

Conventional loans are often erroneously referred to as conforming mortgages or loans. While there is overlap, the two are distinct categories.



A conforming mortgage is one whose underlying terms and conditions meet the funding criteria of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Chief among those is a dollar limit, set annually by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). In most of the continental United States, a loan must not exceed $647,200 in 2022 (up from $548,250 in 2021).



So while all conforming loans are conventional, not all conventional loans qualify as conforming. For example, a jumbo mortgage of $800,000 is a conventional mortgage but not a conforming mortgage—because it surpasses the amount that would allow it to be backed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.



In 2020, there were 8.3 million homeowners with FHA-insured mortgages. The secondary market for conventional mortgages is extremely large and liquid. Most conventional mortgages are packaged into pass-through mortgage-backed securities (MBS), which trade in a well-established forward market known as the mortgage to be announced (TBA) market. Many of these conventional pass-through securities are further securitized into collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs).


   Types of Conventional Mortgages  

There are several types of conventional mortgage, and the terms used to refer to them can be confusing. Here are the most common types.



Conforming conventional loans: As mentioned above, conforming conventional loans are loans that adhere to the standards set by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Jumbo loans: Jumbo loans allow you to borrow more than the maximum lending limit for conforming loans. However, they typically require a higher credit score, lower debt-to-income (DTI) ratio, and larger down payment.
Portfolio loans: A portfolio loan is a conventional loan that a lender chooses to keep in its own portfolio rather than selling it on the secondary market.
Subprime loans: Conforming loans require that you have a DTI below 50% and a credit score of 620 or higher. But if your credit isn’t quite there, you may qualify for a subprime mortgage loan.
Amortized conventional loans: These loans are fully amortized, giving homebuyers a set monthly payment from the beginning to the end of the loan repayment period.
Adjustable-rate loans: With an adjustable-rate mortgage, you’ll get a fixed interest rate for a set period, typically three to 10 years. After that, your interest rate can vary each year.


   Required Documentation for a Conventional Mortgage  

In the years since the subprime mortgage meltdown in 2007, lenders have tightened the qualifications for loans—“no verification” and “no down payment” mortgages have gone with the wind, for example—but overall, most of the basic requirements haven’t changed. Potential borrowers need to complete an official mortgage application (and usually pay an application fee), then supply the lender with the necessary documents to perform an extensive check on their background, credit history, and current credit score.



No property is ever 100% financed. In checking your assets and liabilities, a lender is not only looking to see if you can afford your monthly mortgage payments, which usually shouldn’t exceed 28% of your gross income. The lender is also looking to see if you can handle a down payment on the property (and if so, how much), along with other up-front costs, such as loan origination or underwriting fees, broker fees, and settlement or closing costs, all of which can significantly drive up the cost of a mortgage. Among the items required are:


  1. Proof of Income  

These documents will include but may not be limited to:



Thirty days of pay stubs that show income as well as year-to-date income
Two years of federal tax returns
Sixty days or a quarterly statement of all asset accounts, including your checking, savings, and any investment accounts
Two years of W-2 statements



Borrowers also need to be prepared with proof of any additional income, such as alimony or bonuses.


  2. Assets  

You will need to present bank statements and investment account statements to prove that you have funds for the down payment and closing costs on the residence, as well as cash reserves. If you receive money from a friend or relative to assist with the down payment, you will need gift letters, which certify that these are not loans and have no required or obligatory repayment. These letters will often need to be notarized.


  3. Employment Verification  

Lenders today want to make sure they are loaning only to borrowers with a stable work history. Your lender will not only want to see your pay stubs but also may call your employer to verify that you are still employed and to check your salary. If you have recently changed jobs, a lender may want to contact your previous employer. Self-employed borrowers will need to provide significant additional paperwork concerning their business and income.


  4. Other Documentation  

Your lender will need to copy your driver’s license or state ID card and will need your Social Security number and your signature, allowing the lender to pull your credit report.


   Interest Rates for Conventional Mortgages  

Conventional loan interest rates tend to be higher than those of government-backed mortgages, such as FHA loans (although these loans, which usually mandate that borrowers pay mortgage insurance premiums, may work out to be just as costly in the long run).



The interest rate carried by a conventional mortgage depends on several factors, including the terms of the loan—its length, its size, and whether the interest rate is fixed or adjustable—as well as current economic or financial market conditions. Mortgage lenders set interest rates based on their expectations for future inflation; the supply of and demand for mortgage-backed securities also influences the rates. A mortgage calculator can show you the impact of different rates on your monthly payment.







When the Federal Reserve makes it more expensive for banks to borrow by targeting a higher federal funds rate, the banks, in turn, pass on the higher costs to their customers, and consumer loan rates, including those for mortgages, tend to go up.



Typically linked to the interest rate are points, fees paid to the lender (or broker). The more points you pay, the lower your interest rate. One point costs 1% of the loan amount and reduces your interest rate by about 0.25%.



The final factor in determining the interest rate is the individual borrower’s financial profile: personal assets, creditworthiness, and the size of the down payment that they can make on the residence to be financed.






A buyer who plans on living in a home for 10 or more years should consider paying for points to keep interest rates lower for the life of the mortgage.


   Special Considerations for a Conventional Mortgage or Loan  

These types of loans are not for everyone. Here’s a look at who is likely to qualify for a conventional mortgage and who is not.


  Who May Qualify  

People with established credit and stellar credit reports who are on a solid financial footing usually qualify for conventional mortgages. More specifically, the ideal candidate should have:



A fair or better credit score. A credit score is a numerical representation of a borrower’s ability to pay back a loan. Credit scores include a borrower’s credit history and the number of late payments. A credit score of at least 620 and possibly higher can be required for approval. Also, the higher the score, the lower the interest rate on the loan, with the best terms being reserved for those with an excellent score.
An acceptable debt-to-income (DTI) ratio. This is the sum of your monthly debt payments, such as credit cards and loan payments, compared to your monthly income. Ideally, the DTI ratio should be around 36% and no more than 43%. In other words, you should spend less than 36% of your monthly income on debt payments.
A down payment of at least 20% of the home’s purchase price readily available. Lenders can and do accept less, but if they do, they often require that borrowers take out private mortgage insurance and pay its premiums monthly until they achieve at least 20% equity in the house.



In addition, conventional mortgages are often the best or only recourse for homebuyers who want the residence for investment purposes or as a second home, or who want to purchase a property priced over $500,000.


  Who May Not Qualify  

Generally speaking, those who are just starting out in life, those with a little more debt than normal, and those with a modest credit rating often have trouble qualifying for conventional loans. More specifically, these mortgages would be tough for those who have:



Suffered bankruptcy or foreclosure within the past seven years
Credit scores below 650
DTI ratios above 43%
Less than 20% or even 10% of the home’s purchase price for a down payment



However, if you’re turned down for the mortgage, be sure to ask for the reasons in writing. You may qualify for other programs that could help you get approved for a mortgage.



For example, if you have no credit history and are a first-time homebuyer, you may qualify for an FHA loan. FHA loans are tailored specifically for first-time homebuyers. As a result, FHA loans have different qualifications and credit requirements, including a lower down payment.




What’s the Difference Between a Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Loan and a Conventional Loan?
FHA loans are designed to make homeownership possible and easier for low- to moderate-income borrowers with poor credit history or limited savings. Conventional loan interest rates tend to be higher than those of government-backed mortgages, such as FHA loans, and you will need a higher credit score and down payment to qualify.




Is It Better to Go FHA or Conventional?
A conventional loan is often better if you have good or excellent credit because your mortgage rate and private mortgage insurance (PMI) costs will go down. But an FHA loan can be perfect if your credit score is in the high 500s or low 600s. For lower-credit borrowers, FHA is often the cheaper option. However, it’s worth checking both options, because the best way to borrow can depend on many factors.




What Credit Score Do I Need for a Conventional Loan?
Fannie Mae says conventional loans typically require a minimum credit score of 620, but it can vary by lender. Banks may be more willing to lend to people with a significant down payment.


   The Bottom Line  

A conventional mortgage or conventional loan is a homebuyer’s loan that is not offered or secured by a government entity. They are often compared to FHA loans, which are designed to allow low-income families, or those with low credit scores or little savings, to access mortgage loans.



Conventional mortgages are available via private lenders or the two government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs): Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Potential borrowers need to complete an official mortgage application, supply required documents, credit history, and current credit score. Conventional loan interest rates tend to be higher than those of government-backed mortgages, such as FHA loans, unless you have an excellent credit rating.



Correction—March 7, 2023: This article has been edited from a previous version that incorrectly stated which type of mortgage loans offer lower interest rates. In fact, FHA loans offer lower interest rates than conventional loans.
What Is a Convertible Bond?  

A convertible bond is a fixed-income corporate debt security that yields interest payments, but can be converted into a predetermined number of common stock or equity shares. The conversion from the bond to stock can be done at certain times during the bond's life and is usually at the discretion of the bondholder.



As a hybrid security, the price of a convertible bond is especially sensitive to changes in interest rates, the price of the underlying stock, and the issuer's credit rating.





Key Takeaways

A convertible bond pays fixed-income interest payments, but can be converted into a predetermined number of common stock shares.The conversion from the bond to stock happens at specific times during the bond's life and is usually at the discretion of the bondholder.A convertible bond offers investors a type of hybrid security that has features of a bond, such as interest payments, while also having the option to own the underlying stock.












Investopedia / Ryan Oakley


   Understanding Convertible Bonds  

Convertible bonds are a flexible financing option for companies. A convertible bond offers investors a type of hybrid security, which has features of a bond such as interest payments while also providing the opportunity of owning the stock. This bond's conversion ratio determines how many shares of stock you can get from converting one bond. For example, a 5:1 ratio means that one bond would convert to five shares of common stock.



The conversion price is the price per share at which a convertible security, such as corporate bonds or preferred shares, can be converted into common stock. The conversion price is set when the conversion ratio is decided for a convertible security.



The conversion price and ratio can be found in the bond indenture (in the case of convertible bonds) or in the security prospectus (in the case of convertible preferred shares).


   Varieties of Convertible Bonds  

A vanilla convertible bond provides the investor with the choice to hold the bond until maturity or convert it to stock. If the stock price has decreased since the bond's issue date, the investor can hold the bond until maturity and get paid the face value. If the stock price increases significantly, the investor can convert the bond to stock and either hold or sell the stock at their discretion. Ideally, an investor wants to convert the bond to stock when the gain from the stock sale exceeds the face value of the bond plus the total amount of remaining interest payments.



Mandatory convertible bonds are required to be converted by the investor at a particular conversion ratio and price level. On the other hand, a reversible convertible bond gives the company the right to convert the bond to equity shares or keep the bond as a fixed income investment until maturity. If the bond is converted, it is done so at a preset price and conversion ratio.


   Benefits and Disadvantages of Convertible Bonds  

Issuing convertible bonds can help companies minimize negative investor sentiment that would surround equity issuance. Each time a company issues additional shares or equity, it adds to the number of shares outstanding and dilutes existing investor ownership. The company might issue convertible bonds to avoid negative sentiment. Bondholders can, then, convert into equity shares should the company perform well.



Issuing convertible bonds can also help provide investors with some security in the event of default. A convertible bond protects investors' principal on the downside, but allows them to participate in the upside should the underlying company succeed.



A startup company, for example, might have a project that requires a significant amount of capital resulting in a loss in the near-term revenues. However, the project should lead the company to profitability in the future. Convertible bond investors can get back some of their principal upon failure of the company while they can also benefit from capital appreciation, by converting the bonds into equity, if the company is successful.



Investors can enjoy the value-added component built into convertible bonds meaning they're essentially a bond with a stock option, particularly a call option. A call option is an agreement that gives the option buyer the right—not the obligation—to buy a stock, bond, or other instruments at a specified price within a specific period. However, convertible bonds tend to offer a lower coupon rate or rate of return in exchange for the value of the option to convert the bond into common stock.



Companies benefit since they can issue debt at lower interest rates than with traditional bond offerings. However, not all companies offer convertible bonds. Also, most convertible bonds are considered to be riskier/more volatile than typical fixed-income instruments.





Pros

Investors receive fixed-rate interest payments with the option to convert to stock and benefit from stock price appreciation.
Investors get some default risk security since bondholders are paid before common stockholders.
Companies benefit by raising capital without immediately diluting their shares.
Companies may pay lower interest rates on their debt compared to using traditional bonds.



Cons

Due to the option to convert the bond into common stock, they offer a lower coupon rate.
Issuing companies with little or no earnings—like startups—create an additional risk for convertible bond investors.
Share dilution happens if the bonds convert to stock shares, which may depress the share's price and EPS dynamics.





   Example of a Convertible Bond  

As an example, let's say Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) issued a convertible bond with a $1,000 face value that pays 4% interest. The bond has a maturity of 10 years and a convertible ratio of 100 shares for every convertible bond.



If the bond is held until maturity, the investor will be paid $1,000 in principal plus $40 in interest for that year. However, the company's shares suddenly spike and are trading at $11 per share. As a result, the 100 shares of stock are worth $1,100 (100 shares x $11 share price), which exceeds the value of the bond. The investor can convert the bond into stock and receive 100 shares, which could be sold in the market for $1,100 in total.






Convertible bond arbitrage is a trading strategy that aims to capitalize on mispricing between a convertible bond and its underlying stock.
What Is Convertible Preferred Stock?  

Convertible preferred stocks are preferred shares that include an option for the holder to convert the shares into a fixed number of common shares after a predetermined date.



Most convertible preferred stock is exchanged at the request of the shareholder, but sometimes there is a provision that allows the company, or issuer, to force the conversion. The value of a convertible preferred stock is ultimately based on the performance of the common stock.





Key Takeaways


Convertible preferred stock is a type of preferred share that pays a dividend and can be converted into common stock at a fixed conversion ratio after a specified time.
Convertible preferred stock is a type of hybrid security that has features of both debt and equity, arising from the dividend payment and conversion option, respectively.
Once the common share trades above the conversion price, it may be worthwhile for the preferred shareholders to convert their preferred stock to common shares.
After preferred shareholders convert their shares, they give up their rights as a preferred shareholder (no fixed dividend or higher claim on assets) and become a common shareholder (ability to vote and participate in share price appreciation).



   Understanding Convertible Preferred Stock  

Corporations use convertible preferred stock to raise capital. These securities are especially useful for early-stage companies as a financing medium that can offer greater flexibility to investors, making it a potentially more attractive financing option.



Preferred stock is a class of equity capital issued by a corporation that has a higher claim on assets and earnings than common stock. Preferred shares typically pay steady dividends, while common stock only pays dividends if they are approved by the board of directors based on financial performance of the firm. Additionally, preferred shares do not usually come with voting rights, as common shares do. As such, preferred stock is often thought of as a hybrid between a corporate bond and common stock.



Convertible preferred stock is distinguished by the fact that it contains an embedded option that allows the holder to convert it into a specified amount of common shares at some point in the future. This conversion option provides a potential upside for the holder, as the value of the common stock could increase over time, while still having the benefits of being a preferred stockholder.



Note however, because this is advantageous for investors, convertible preferred stock typically trades at a premium over regular preferred shares and may also carry a comparatively lower dividend rate.


   Convertible Preferred Stock Terms  

Commonly used terms when referring to convertible preferred stock are as follows:



Par value: Face value of preferred stock, or the dollar amount payable to the holder if the company were to go bankrupt.
Conversion ratio: The number of common shares that an investor receives at the time of conversion of a convertible preferred stock. The ratio is set by the company when the convertible preferred stock is issued.
Conversion price: The price at which a convertible preferred share can be converted into common shares. Conversion price can be calculated by dividing the convertible preferred stock’s par value by the stipulated conversion ratio.
Conversion premium: The dollar amount by which the market price of the convertible preferred stock exceeds the current market value of the common shares into which it may be converted. It may also be expressed as a percentage of the convertible preferred stock’s market price.


   Example of Convertible Preferred Stock  

Consider a convertible preferred stock issued by hypothetical company ABC Inc. at $1,000, with a conversion ratio of 10 and a fixed dividend of 5%. The conversion price is thus $100, and ABC’s common shares need to trade above this threshold for the conversion to be worthwhile for the investor. Even if the common shares are trading close to $100, it may not be worth it to convert since the preferred shareholder will be giving up their fixed 5% dividend and higher claim on company assets.



If the convertible preferred stock is trading at $1,000 and the ABC common shares are trading at $80, then the conversion premium would be $200 (i.e., (1,000 - ($80 × 10)) or 20% ($200 ÷ $1,000). If the common shares move up to $90, the conversion premium shrinks to $100, or 10%.



Thus, the conversion premium influences the price at which the convertible preferred stock trades in the market. A high conversion premium implies that the underlying common shares are trading well below the conversion price and there is little possibility of a profitable conversion. In this case, the convertible preferred stock will act more like a bond and will be susceptible to changes in interest rates. If the conversion premium is very low—implying that the common stock is trading quite close to the conversion price—the convertible preferred stock will be sensitive to changes in the underlying common shares (those of ABC, in this case) and will act like straight equity.



As the common shares rise, it becomes more attractive to convert. If the ABC common shares move to $110, the preferred shareholder gets $1,100 ($110 × 10) for each $1,000 preferred stock. That’s a gain of 10% if the investor converts and sells the common shares at $110.



The danger in converting is that the investor becomes a common shareholder, at the mercy of swings in the stock price. If the price of ABC stock falls to $75 after conversion, and the investor continues to hold the common shares, they would now own $750 ($75 × 10) in common shares for each preferred stock (worth $1,000) that they previously owned. This represents a notional loss of $250, and the investor no longer receives the 5% preferred stock dividend or preferential claim on assets.




How does a convertible preferred share differ from a regular preferred share?
The difference between a preferred share and a convertible preferred share is that the latter confers the option to convert into a set amount of common stock shares in the future. This option gives investors the benefit of capital appreciation while also enjoying the benefits of being a preferred shareholder. As a result, convertible preferred shares will often trade at a relative premium and offer a lower dividend rate.




How does a convertible preferred share differ from a convertible bond?
A convertible preferred share and a convertible bond are both securities that have the ability to be converted into common shares, but they differ in several key ways.Convertible bonds are debt securities that can be converted into common stock, while preferred shares are a type of equity instrument. Because they are debt, in the event of a bankruptcy or liquidation, convertible preferred shareholders would have priority over convertible preferred shareholders, but both would have priority over holders of common stock.Convertible preferred shares typically pay a fixed cash dividend out of a company’s retained earnings, while convertible bonds pay a coupon rate, which is a periodic interest payment booked as a liability for the firm.Finally, most convertible bonds have a specified maturity date, while convertible preferred shares can exist as long as the company remains a going concern.




Why would investors buy convertible preferred stock?
Convertible preferred stock offers investors the benefits of both preferred stock and common stock. Investors initially get the stability, liquidation priority, and higher dividends of preferred stock, but they also have the option to convert their shares into common stock later if they believe that the price will go up.This conversion feature can generate a potentially higher return on investment than investors would get with traditional preferred stock, while also offering a level of flexibility and control that is not possible with either preferred stock or bonds.


   The Bottom Line  

Convertible preferred stock is a type of preferred share that also grants the holder the option to convert them into a specified number of common stock shares. Combining features of both preferred and common stock, convertible preferred shares are a hybrid security that have the benefits of a steady, fixed dividend as well as the potential for capital appreciation via conversion.



This type of security is usually issued by companies that are looking to raise additional capital by offering investors more flexibility. The conversion price, or the number of common shares that one share of convertible preferred stock is good for, is determined at the time of issuance and may be adjusted subsequently by the issuer.
What Is Convexity?  

Convexity is apparent in the relationship between bond prices and bond yields. Convexity is the curvature in the relationship between bond prices and interest rates. It reflects the rate at which the duration of a bond changes as interest rates change. Duration measures a bond's sensitivity to changes in interest rates. It represents the expected percentage change in the price of a bond for a 1% change in interest rates.





Key Takeaways

Convexity is used to measure a portfolio's exposure to market risk.Convexity is the curvature in the relationship between bond prices and bond yields.Convexity demonstrates how the duration of a bond changes as the interest rate changes.If a bond's duration increases as yields increase, the bond is said to have negative convexity.If a bond's duration rises and yields fall, the bond is said to have positive convexity.












Investopedia / Joules Garcia


   Understanding Convexity  

Convexity demonstrates how the duration of a bond changes as the interest rate changes. Portfolio managers will use convexity as a risk-management tool, to measure and manage the portfolio's exposure to interest rate risk.



In the example figure shown below, Bond A has a higher convexity than Bond B, which indicates that all else being equal, Bond A will always have a higher price than Bond B as interest rates rise or fall.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019



As interest rates fall, bond prices rise. Conversely, rising market interest rates lead to falling bond prices. The bond yield is the earnings or returns an investor can expect to make by buying and holding that particular security. The bond price depends on several characteristics, including the market interest rate, and can change regularly.



If market rates rise, new bond issues must also have higher rates to satisfy investor demand for lending money. The price of bonds returning less than that rate will fall as there would be very little demand for them as bondholders will look to sell their existing bonds and opt for bonds with higher yields. Eventually, the price of these bonds with the lower coupon rates will drop to a level where the rate of return is equal to the prevailing market interest rates.


   Bond Duration  

Bond duration measures the change in a bond's price when interest rates fluctuate. If the duration of a bond is high, it means the bond's price will move to a greater degree in the opposite direction of interest rates. If rates rise by 1%, a bond or bond fund with a 5-year average duration would likely lose approximately 5% of its value. Conversely, when this figure is low, the debt instrument will show less movement to the change in interest rates.



The higher a bond's duration, the larger the change in its price when interest rates change and the greater its interest rate risk. If an investor believes that interest rates are going to rise, they should consider bonds with a lower duration.



Bond duration should not be confused with its term to maturity. Though they both decline as the maturity date approaches, the latter is simply a measure of the time during which the bondholder will receive coupon payments until the principal is paid.



If market rates rise by 1%, a one-year maturity bond price should decline by an equal 1%. For bonds with long-dated maturities, the reaction increases. As a general rule of thumb, if rates rise by 1%, bond prices fall by 1% for each year of maturity.


   Convexity and Risk  

Convexity builds on the concept of duration by measuring the sensitivity of the duration of a bond as yields change. Convexity is a better measure of interest rate risk. Where duration assumes that interest rates and bond prices have a linear relationship, convexity produces a slope.



Duration can be a good measure of how bond prices may be affected due to small and sudden fluctuations in interest rates. However, the relationship between bond prices and yields is typically more sloped or convex. Therefore, convexity is a better measure for assessing the impact on bond prices when there are large fluctuations in interest rates.



As convexity increases, the systemic risk to which the portfolio is exposed increases. For a fixed-income portfolio, as interest rates rise, the existing fixed-rate instruments are not as attractive. As convexity decreases, the exposure to market interest rates decreases, and the bond portfolio can be considered hedged. Typically, the higher the coupon rate or yield, the lower the convexity or market risk of a bond.


   Example of Convexity  

A bond issuer, XYZ Corporation, has two bonds on the market: Bond A and Bond B. Both bonds have a face value of $100,000 and a coupon rate of 5%. Bond A, however, matures in 5 years, while Bond B matures in 10 years.



Using the concept of duration, we can calculate that Bond A has a duration of 4 years while Bond B has a duration of 5.5 years. This means that for every 1% change in interest rates, Bond A's price will change by 4% while Bond B's price will change by 5.5%.



If the interest rate increase by 2%, the price of Bond A should decrease by 8% while the price of Bond B will decrease by 11%. However, using the concept of convexity, we can predict that the price change for Bond B will be less than expected based on its duration alone. This is because Bond B has a longer maturity, which means it has a higher convexity. The higher convexity of Bond B acts as a buffer against changes in interest rates, resulting in a relatively smaller price change than expected based on its duration alone.


   Negative and Positive Convexity  

If a bond's duration increases as yields increase, the bond is said to have negative convexity. The bond price will decline by a greater rate with a rise in yields than if yields had fallen. Therefore, if a bond has negative convexity, its duration would increase, and the price would fall. As interest rates rise, the opposite is true.



If a bond's duration rises and yields fall, the bond is said to have positive convexity. As yields fall, bond prices rise by a greater rate or duration than if yields rise. Positive convexity leads to increases in bond prices. If a bond has positive convexity, it would typically experience price increases as yields fall, compared to price decreases when yields increase.



Under normal market conditions, the higher the coupon rate or yield, the lower a bond's degree of convexity. There's less risk to the investor when the bond has a high coupon or yield since market rates would have to increase significantly to surpass the bond's yield. A portfolio of bonds with high yields would have low convexity and subsequently less risk of existing yields becoming unattractive as interest rates rise.






Most mortgage-backed securities (MBS) will have negative convexity because their yield is typically higher than traditional bonds. As a result, it would take a significant rise in yields to make an existing holder of an MBS have a lower yield, or less attractive, than the current market.




What Is Negative and Positive Convexity?
If a bond's duration increases as yields increase, the bond is said to have negative convexity. The bond price will decline by a greater rate with a rise in yields than if yields had fallen.If a bond's duration rises and yields fall, the bond is said to have positive convexity. As yields fall, bond prices rise by a greater rate or duration.




Why Do Interest Rates and Bond Prices Move in Opposite Directions?
As interest rates fall, bond prices rise, and vice versa. New bond issues must also have higher rates to satisfy investor demand for lending the issuer their money. The price of bonds returning less than that rate will fall as there would be very little demand for them as bondholders will look to sell their existing bonds and opt for bonds, most likely newer issues, paying higher yields.




What Is Bond Duration?
Bond duration measures the change in a bond's price when interest rates fluctuate. If the duration is high, the bond's price will move in the opposite direction to a greater degree than the change in interest rates. Conversely, when this figure is low, the debt instrument will show less movement to the change in interest rates.


   The Bottom Line  

Convexity is a measure of the curvature of its duration or the relationship between bond prices and yields. It describes how the duration of a bond changes in response to changes in interest rates. Convexity can impact the value of investments. Several factors impact the convexity of a bond, including the bond's coupon rate, maturity, and credit quality. Bond investors can use convexity to their advantage by managing their bond portfolios to take advantage of changes in interest rates.



Correction—May 12, 2023: The article was amended to clarify that the higher the convexity, the less the bond price will increase when rates fall, and the less the bond price will drop when rates rise.
What Is 'Cook the Books'?  

Cook the books is a slang term for using accounting tricks to make a company's financial results look better than they really are. Typically, cooking the books involves manipulating financial data to inflate a company's revenue and deflate its expenses in order to pump up its earnings or profit.





Key Takeaways

Cook the books is a slang term for using accounting tricks to make a company's financial results look better than they really are.Typically, cooking the books involves manipulating financial data to inflate a company's revenue, deflate expenses, and pump up profit.Companies can use credit sales to exaggerate their revenue while others buy back stock to disguise a decline in their earnings per share (EPS). 


   Understanding Cook the Books  

Companies can manipulate their financial records to improve their financial results using a multitude of tactics. Some companies don't record all of their expenses that incurred in a period until the next period. By recording a portion of Q1's expenses in Q2, for example, a company's Q1 earnings or profit will look more favorable.



Many companies who sell their product, extend terms to their customers, which allows them to pay the company at a later date. These sales are recorded as accounts receivables (AR) since they represent product that's been sold and shipped, but the customers have yet to pay. The terms can be 30, 60, 90 days, or more. Companies can falsify their AR by claiming that they made a sale and record the accounts receivable on the balance sheet. If the fake receivable is due in 90 days, the company can create another fake receivable 90 days from now to show that current assets remain stable. Only when a company falls behind collecting its receivables will it show that there's a problem. Unfortunately, banks often lend, in part, based on the value of a company's accounts receivables and can fall victim to lending off false receivables. During a detailed audit, the bank auditors would match the AR invoices to customer payments into the company's bank accounts, which would show any amounts not being collected.



During the first years of the new millennium, several large Fortune 500 companies, such as Enron and WorldCom, were found to have used sophisticated accounting tricks to overstate their profitability. In other words, they cooked the books. Once these massive frauds came to light, the ensuing scandals gave investors and regulators a stark lesson in how clever some companies had become at hiding the truth between the lines of their financial statements.






Even though the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 reined in many dubious accounting practices, companies that are inclined to cook their books still have plenty of ways to do so.


   Regulations Against Cooking the Books  

To help restore investor confidence, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Among other things, it required that the senior officers of corporations certify in writing that their company's financial statements comply with SEC disclosure requirements and fairly present in all material aspects the operations and financial condition of the issuer.﻿﻿ The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) helps to maintain a fair and orderly financial market, which includes various financial reporting requirements for publicly-traded companies.﻿﻿



Executives who knowingly sign off on false financial statements may face criminal penalties, including prison sentences. But even with Sarbanes-Oxley in effect, there are still numerous ways that companies can cook the books if they're determined to do so, as the following examples illustrate.


   Examples of Cooking the Books  

Check out these manifestations of accounting creativity.


  Credit Sales and Inflated Revenue  

Companies can use credit sales to exaggerate their revenue. That's because the purchases customers make on credit can be booked as sales even if the company allows the customer to postpone payments for six months. In addition to offering in-house financing, companies can extend credit terms on current financing programs. So, a 20% jump in sales could simply be due to a new financing program with easier terms rather than a real increase in customer purchases. These sales end up being reported as net income or profit, long before the company has actually seen that income—if it ever will.


  Channel Stuffing  

Manufacturers engaged in "channel stuffing" ship unordered products to their distributors at the end of the quarter. These transactions are recorded as sales, even though the company fully expects the distributors to send the products back. The proper procedure is for manufacturers to book products sent to distributors as inventory until the distributors record their sales.


  Mischaracterized Expenses  

Many companies have "nonrecurring expenses," one-time costs that are considered extraordinary events and unlikely to happen again. Companies can legitimately classify those expenses as such on their financial statements. However, some companies take advantage of this practice to report expenses that they routinely incur as "nonrecurring," which makes their bottom line and future prospects look better than they are in reality.


  Stock Buybacks  

Stock buybacks can be a logical move for companies with excess cash, especially if their stock is trading at a low valuation. A buyback is when a company uses its cash to purchase a portion of the company's outstanding equity shares. Buybacks reduce the overall share count and typically lead to a higher stock price. However, some companies buy back stock for a different reason: to disguise a decline in earnings per share (EPS), and they often borrow money to do so. By decreasing the number of shares outstanding, they can increase earnings per share even if the company's net income has declined.



For example, if a company had 1,000,000 outstanding equity shares and recorded net income or profit of $150,000, the company's EPS would be .15 cents per share ($150,000 / 1,000,000).However, if the company bought back 200,000 shares and recorded the same profit in the next quarter, the EPS would increase to .19 cents per share ($150,000 / 800,000).



Since company executives forecast their earnings per share for each upcoming quarter, beating that forecast can help create a positive image for the company and lead to a jump in the stock price. Share buybacks as a method to boost EPS have been a controversial topic for many years. Unfortunately, some companies abuse the metric by repurchasing shares to show that EPS has grown and exceeded their quarterly EPS forecast despite earning little-to-no additional profit.
What Is Copyright?  

Copyright refers to the legal right of the owner of intellectual property. In simpler terms, copyright is the right to copy. This means that the original creators of products and anyone they give authorization to are the only ones with the exclusive right to reproduce the work.



Copyright law gives creators of original material the exclusive right to further use and duplicate that material for a given amount of time. Once a copyright expires, the copyrighted item becomes public domain.





Key Takeaways

Copyright law protects creators of original material from unauthorized duplication or use.For an original work to be protected by copyright laws, it has to be in tangible form.In the U.S., the work of creators usually is protected by copyright laws until 70 years after their death.Other forms of protection for property that cannot be copyrighted include trademarks and patents.






   How Copyrighting Works  

When someone creates a product that is viewed as original and that required significant mental activity to create, this product becomes an intellectual property that must be protected from unauthorized duplication. Examples of unique creations include:



NovelsArtPoetryMusical lyrics and compositionsComputer softwareGraphic designs,FilmOriginal architectural designsWebsite content



One safeguard that can be used to legally protect an original creation is copyright. Under copyright law, a work is considered original if the author created it from independent thinking void of duplication. This type of work is known as an Original Work of Authorship (OWA).



Anyone with an original work of authorship automatically has the copyright to that work, preventing anyone else from using or replicating it. The copyright can be registered voluntarily by the original owner if they would like to get an upper hand in the legal system in the event that the need arises.






The copyright to your original work belongs to you even if you don't register it with the government. However, you will need a registered copyright if you are bringing legal action for infringement.



Not all types of work can be copyrighted. A copyright does not protect ideas, discoveries, concepts, or theories. Brand names, logos, slogans, domain names, and titles also cannot be protected under copyright law. For an original work to be copyrighted, it has to be in tangible form. This means that any speech, discoveries, musical scores, or ideas have to be written down in physical form in order to be protected by copyright.



In the U.S., original owners are protected by copyright laws all of their lives until 70 years after their death. If the original author of the copyrighted material is a corporation, the copyright protection period is 95 years from the date of publication or 120 years, whichever expires first.



U.S. copyright law has experienced a number of amendments and changes that have altered the duration of copyright protection. The "life of the author plus 70 years" protection can be attributed to the 1998 Copyright Term Extension Act, (also known as the Mickey Mouse Protection Act or Sonny Bono Act), which generally increased copyright protections by 20 years.






Copyright protection varies from country to country, and can stand for 50 to 100 years after the individual’s death, depending on the country.


   Copyright vs. Trademarks and Patents  

While copyright law is not all-encompassing, other laws, such as patent and trademark laws, may impose additional sanctions. Although copyrights, trademarks, and patents are frequently used interchangeably, they offer different forms of protection for intellectual property.



Trademark laws protect material that is used to distinguish an individual’s or corporation’s work from another entity. These materials include words, phrases, or symbols—such as logos, slogans, and brand names—which copyright laws do not cover. Patents cover inventions for a limited period of time. Patented materials include products such as industrial processes, machines, and chemical positions.




What Is the Difference Between Copyright and Trademark?
A copyright protects a creator's original work from being used or duplicated without their permission. A trademark protects the reputation of a business that is associated with identifying material such as their logo or slogan. Both are ways or protecting intellectual property.




Do I Need to Register a Copyright for My Website?
Copyright exists as a right from the moment of creation. You do not need to register your original work, such as content on your website, in order for it to be your intellectual property. However, registering a copyright provides more legal protection. If you plan to bring a lawsuit against someone for infringing on your work, you will need to have a registered copyright.




How Much Does It Cost to Register a U.S. Copyright?
The cost of registering a copyright varies depending on what you are copyrighting and whether you are filing online or by paper. In the United States, the cost of copyright registration ranges from $45 to $500.


   The Bottom Line  

Copyright law is designed to protect the creators of original material. Their copyrighted work cannot be used or duplicated without their permission. In the United States, copyright usually lasts for 70 years after the creator's death.



For work to be protected under copyright law, it must be tangible as well as original. Other forms of legal protection for intellectual property also exist, such as trademarks and patents.
What Are Core Competencies?  

Core competencies are the resources and capabilities that comprise the strategic advantages of a business. A modern management theory argues that a business must define, cultivate, and exploit its core competencies in order to succeed against the competition.





Key Takeaways

Core competencies are the defining characteristics that make a business or an individual stand out from the competition.Identifying and exploiting core competencies is seen as important for a new business making its mark or an established company trying to stay competitive.A company's people, physical assets, patents, brand equity, and capital can all make a contribution to a company's core competencies.The idea of core competencies was first proposed in the 1990s as a new way to judge business managers compared to how they were judged in the 1980s.Examples of companies that have core competencies that have allowed them to remain successful for decades include McDonald's, Apple, and Walmart.


   Understanding Core Competencies  

A successful business has identified what it can do better than anyone else, and why. Its core competencies are the "why." Core competencies are also known as core capabilities or distinctive competencies. Core competencies lead to competitive advantages.



Core competency is a relatively new management theory that originated in a 1990 Harvard Business Review article, “The Core Competence of the Corporation.” In the article, C.K. Prahalad and Gary Hamel review three conditions a business activity must meet in order to be a core competency:



The activity must provide superior value or benefits to the consumer.It should be difficult for a competitor to replicate or imitate it.It should be rare.



The article pointed out the contrast of how businesses operated in the 1980s versus how they should operate in the 1990s. The article asserted that in the 80s, business managers were "judged on their ability to restructure, declutter, and delayer their corporations. In the 1990s, they'll be judged on their ability to identify, cultivate, and exploit the core competencies that make growth possible."



The core competencies that distinguish a business vary by industry. A hospital or clinic may focus on excellence in particular specializations, while a manufacturer may identify superior quality control.


   Core Competencies in Business  

A business can choose to be operationally excellent in a number of different ways. Below are common core competencies found in business:



Greatest Quality Products. This core competency means the company's products are most durable, long-lasting, and most reliable. The company will likely have invested in the strongest quality control measures, technically proficient workers, and high-quality raw materials.
Most Innovative Technology. This core competency means the company is an industry leader in its sector. The company will likely have invested heavy amounts of capital into research & development, holds many patents, and hires experts in respective fields.
Best Customer Service. This core competency means customers have the greatest experience during (and after) their purchase. The company will likely have invested in training for staff, large numbers of customer service representatives, and processes to manage exceptions or issues as they arise.
Largest Buying Power. This core competency leverages a company's economy of scale. This company will likely have invested in mergers or acquisitions and have built up strong relationships with vendors to gain favorable pricing or service.
Strongest Company Culture. This core competency promotes the internal atmosphere of the business. The company aims to attract the best talent by investing heavily in employee recognition, development, or collaborative, fun events.
Fastest Production or Delivery. This core competency means the company is able to make or ship items the fastest. The company will likely have invested in connected software systems as well as production processes and distribution relationships.
Lowest Cost Provider. This core competency means the company charges the lowest price among comparable goods. The company will likely have invested in the most efficient processes the reduce labor or material input.
Highest Degree of Flexibility. This core competency allows the company to quickly pivot in response to business opportunities or challenges. The company will likely have invested in cross-training across employees or nimble software solutions.


   Core Competencies in Individuals  

A variation of the principle that has emerged in recent years to pivot towards individuals looking for a new job. The variation recommends that job seekers focus on their personal core competencies in order to stand out from the crowd.



These positive characteristics may be developed and listed on a resume. Some personal core competencies include analytical abilities, creative thinking, and problem resolution skills. The notional of individual or personal core competencies gives an individual a platform during interviews (i.e. a candidate can identify themselves as the most experienced, most creative, or most technically sound candidate).






The core competencies an individual lists on their resume should be tailored to suit the job and demonstrate actual, highly proficient skills necessary for the role.


   How to Identify Core Competencies  

Some core competencies develop naturally, while other core competencies must be consciously and strategically formed over time. Whether a company is yet for form or has existed for a while, here are ways for organizations to identify what their core competencies are or could be.



Review the company's mission statement, value statement, or slogan. If a company has invested time and effort into developing a brand, chances are it has already put some effort into considering what it wants to be known for. A company's mission statement, value statement, or other branded content may identify what the company wants to be or how it wants to seen by customers.



Compare the company to its competitors. A core competency is a unique element that can not be easily replicated by other companies. Therefore, a company can identify its core competencies by thinking through how the company is different from other businesses. This includes differences in products, processes, market areas, delivery customs, pricing, or employee base.



Interview internal staff or major customers. Different key stakeholders of a company may have insights into its strengths (or weaknesses) of a company. In some cases, the day-to-day staff may have a better sense of what the company excels in. In addition, primary customers that have the most real-world experience with the company's products or services may yield feedback as well.



Brainstorm what benefits the company provides customers. Core competencies often relate back to the product or service the company provides. For example, is the product the lowest cost, most user-friendly, or highest quality? If customers gain a benefit from the company's goods (i.e. they pay the lowest prices), that can often be leveraged into a core competency.



Understand the processes required to make goods. In addition to considering the specific products, a company should review what it takes to make the products. This includes the labor, materials, knowledge, processes, equipment, or research that must be refined in advance.



Identify unique aspects of the company. If all else fails, it may be simplest to just consider what about the company is unique. This may relate to the company's history, certain benefits it can give its employees, the industry it resides in, or what it aims to achieve in the world.






Consider hiring an external consultant to evaluate your company's framework to determine what your core competencies are or could be.


   Why Core Competencies Are Important  

Core competencies allow a company to better understand how to allocate its resources. For example, it may make sense for a company to outsource certain tasks if it does not care to develop those tasks into company strengths. This also includes stronger direction on the staff to hire and what training to incur.



Core competencies also reduce a company's market risk. By being exceptional or proficient in specific areas, a company can rely on these areas to maintain consistency and reliability in operations. For example, companies with strong internal cultures will experience less employee turnover, training expenses, product deficiencies due to lack of knowledge, or unhappy workers.



As companies determine what they are best at, customers may often recognize and associate the company with that core competency. Therefore, core competencies help a company develop a stronger brand image or market presence. For example, many consumers associate Apple products with being the most cutting-edge and innovative.



Last, core competencies may help create stronger relationships between a company and its employees or customers. Both employees and customers may associate with a company better, knowing its strength or identity; in the example above, employees may take pride in creating the most innovative products, while customers gain satisfaction knowing they possess the most creative solutions.






Some core competencies do expire. Consider Sears' long-term dominance as the major retailor due to their catalog. Now, that core competency has faded, and an in-home printed catalog may no longer be viewed as a strength.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Core Competencies  
  Advantages  

Core competencies are difficult to imitate. It often takes a long period of time (or large sums of capital) to develop core competencies. Once a company has achieved a core competency, it often has a major advantage over its competitors in the marketplace.



Core competencies may also be transferrable across different industries or product lines. For example, with a platform of being an incredibly innovative company, Apple has expanded into new product lines, different sectors, and varying geographical regions. An advantage of a company may be able to be applied widely.



Last, core competencies naturally enhance the marketability of a product. Spirit Airlines' core competency of offering the cheapest flights on average is not only its strength, it doubles as a company slogan. Though this may mean some consumers are naturally adverse to the company, it also means Spirit's brand image is clearly defined and recognizable.


  Disadvantages  

Just as difficult as a core competency is to create, it may be equally as difficult to change. This may inadvertently cause the company's brand image to falter and be confusing. For example, McDonald's was once known for indoor playgrounds and Ronald McDonald. Though the company has shifted away from this culture, long-time consumers may still associate the brand with old core competencies.



Core competencies also naturally limit the flexibility of a company. Consider a low-price retailer such as Wal-Mart. The company may struggle to launch high-end, more expensive product lines with greater margins because consumers may not appropriately associate the product with the company.



A company may also "lose the forest among the trees" if it gives too much attention to developing a core competency. The ultimate goal of a company is not to possess core competencies; its purpose is to generate revenue through the sale of products. Therefore, companies may spend tremendous amounts of time or capital without an overarching strategy that makes sense.




Core Competencies

Pros

Are not easily replicable since they take long or large investments
Is often difficult for competitors to overcome once a core competency has been achieved
May be able to be translated to different products, sectors, or business opportunities
Enhances the company's brand image and may make marketing endeavors more easily understood



Cons

May result in a company being tied to an outdated, no-longer-used core competency
May reduce the overall flexibility of a company
May require large time or capital requirements
May result in a company focusing too heavily on core competencies instead of a single cohesive strategy





   Real-World Example of Core Competencies  

Part 1 of Amazon's 2021 annual report discusses the nature of the company's business. The company strives to "be Earth's most customer-centric company." As much, it discusses the following business activities:



Amazon has a core competency of operating scale as their stores "enable hundreds of millions of unique products to be sold by us and by third parties".
Amazon has a core competency of advanced technology as "customers can access our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, devices, streaming, and physically visiting our stores".
Amazon has a core competency of being a budget-conscious option as it seeks "to offer our customers low prices, fast and free delivery, easy-to-use functionality, and timely customer service".
Amazon has a core competency of flexibility and product diversification as it serves "developers and enterprises of all sizes including startups, government agencies, and academic institutions" though a broad set of technology services.
Amazon has a core competency of self-reliance as it serves authors with its own publishing company (Kindle Direct Publishing, Amazon Publishing) to yield products in its own store (Kindle Store) for use on its own physical devices (Kindle).
Amazon has a core competency of innovation as it regards "our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success".




What Are the Main Types of Core Competencies?
Core competencies in business often relate to the type of product delivered to a customer or how that product is delivered. For instance, the main types of core competencies include having the lowest prices, best reliable delivery, best customer service, friendliest return policy, or superior product.




How Does a Company Develop Core Competencies?
A company should internally assess what it does best, and it should also assess how its competition approaches the market. Then, a company should evaluate where it feels it has the best chance to be industry leader. Though these areas may not currently be a company's strength, it can make capital investments and process changes to develop core competencies over time.




What Is the Best Type of Core Competency?
One type of core competency is not necessary better than the rest. However, some core competencies may be more difficult for other companies to overcome. For example, consider the Coca-Cola brand. The company's core competency of brand recognition may be very difficult for a new beverage company to overtake. However, Coca-Cola's approach to customer service or company culture may be easier for a competing company to overtake.




Why Do Core Competencies Matter?
Core competencies lead to operational excellence which leads to superior products, happier customers, and/or greater profitability. When a company is able to doing part of the sale process exceptionally well, it gains a positive reputation for its core competence. This reputation may lead to stronger sales, happier employees, and better business operations.


   The Bottom Line  

Core competencies are the advantages that one company has over its competitors. It's the areas of business that the company excels at, and it's often what the company is known for. Ranging from yielding the highest quality products to having the best customer service to being the low-cost provider, core competencies define a company's identity and guide its operational strategy.
What Is a Corporate Bond?  

A corporate bond is a type of debt security issued by a corporation and sold to investors. The company gets the capital it needs and in return, the investor is paid a pre-established number of interest payments at either a fixed or variable interest rate. When the bond expires, or "reaches maturity," the payments cease and the original investment is returned.



The backing for the bond is generally the ability of the company to repay, which depends on its prospects for future revenues and profitability. In some cases, the company's physical assets may be used as collateral.





Key Takeaways

A corporate bond is debt issued by a company in order for it to raise capital.An investor who buys a corporate bond is effectively lending money to the company in return for a series of interest payments, but these bonds may also actively trade on the secondary market.Corporate bonds are typically seen as somewhat riskier than U.S. government bonds, so they usually have higher interest rates to compensate for this additional risk.The highest quality (and safest, lower yielding) bonds are commonly referred to as "Triple-A" bonds, while the least creditworthy are termed "junk".


   Understanding Corporate Bonds  

In the investment hierarchy, high-quality corporate bonds are considered a relatively safe and conservative investment. Investors building balanced portfolios often add bonds in order to offset riskier investments such as growth stocks. Over a lifetime, these investors tend to add more bonds and fewer risky investments in order to safeguard their accumulated capital. Retirees often invest a larger portion of their assets in bonds in order to establish a reliable income supplement.



In general, corporate bonds are considered to have a higher risk than U.S. government bonds. As a result, interest rates are almost always higher on corporate bonds, even for companies with top-flight credit quality. The difference between the yields on highly-rated corporate bonds and U.S. Treasuries is called the credit spread.


   Corporate Bond Ratings  

Before being issued to investors, bonds are reviewed for the creditworthiness of the issuer by one or more of three U.S. rating agencies: Standard & Poor's Global Ratings, Moody's Investor Services, and Fitch Ratings.﻿﻿ ﻿﻿ ﻿﻿ Each has its own ranking system, but the highest-rated bonds are commonly referred to as "Triple-A" rated bonds. The lowest rated corporate bonds are called high-yield bonds due to their greater interest rate applied to compensate for their higher risk. These are also known as "junk" bonds.



Bond ratings are vital to alerting investors to the quality and stability of the bond in question. These ratings consequently greatly influence interest rates, investment appetite, and bond pricing.


   How Corporate Bonds Are Sold  

Corporate bonds are issued in blocks of $1,000 in face or par value. Almost all have a standard coupon payment structure. Typically a corporate issuer will enlist the help of an investment bank to underwrite and market the bond offering to investors.



The investor receives regular interest payments from the issuer until the bond matures. At that point, the investor reclaims the face value of the bond. The bonds may have a fixed interest rate or a rate that floats according to the movements of a particular economic indicator.



Corporate bonds sometimes have call provisions to allow for early prepayment if prevailing interest rates change so dramatically that the company deems it can do better by issuing a new bond.



Investors may also opt to sell bonds before they mature. If a bond is sold, the owner gets less than face value. The amount it is worth is determined primarily by the number of payments that still are due before the bond matures.



Investors may also gain access to corporate bonds by investing in any number of bond-focused mutual funds or ETFs.


   Why Corporations Sell Bonds  

Corporate bonds are a form of debt financing. They are a major source of capital for many businesses, along with equity, bank loans, and lines of credit. They often are issued to provide the ready cash for a particular project the company wants to undertake. Debt financing is sometimes preferable to issuing stock (equity financing) because it is typically cheaper for the borrowing firm and does not entail giving up any ownership stake or control in the company.



Generally speaking, a company needs to have consistent earnings potential to be able to offer debt securities to the public at a favorable coupon rate. If a company's perceived credit quality is higher, it can issue more debt at lower rates.



When a corporation needs a very short-term capital boost, it may sell commercial paper, which is similar to a bond but typically matures in 270 days or less.


   The Difference Between Corporate Bonds and Stocks  

An investor who buys a corporate bond is lending money to the company. An investor who buys stock is buying an ownership share of the company.



The value of a stock rises and falls, and the investor's stake rises or falls with it. The investor may make money by selling the stock when it reaches a higher price, by collecting dividends paid by the company, or both.



By investing in bonds, an investor is paid in interest rather than profits. The original investment can only be at risk if the company collapses. One important difference is that even a bankrupt company must pay its bondholders and other creditors first. Stock owners may be reimbursed for their losses only after all of those debts are paid in full.



Companies may also issue convertible bonds, which are able to be turned into shares of the company if certain conditions are met.






A balanced portfolio may contain some bonds to offset riskier investments. The percentage devoted to bonds may grow as the investor approaches retirement.
What Is a Corporate Charter?  

A corporate charter, also known as a "charter" or "articles of incorporation," is a written document filed with the Secretary of State (or registrar in Canada) by the founders of a corporation. It details the major components of a company, such as its objectives, structure, and planned operations. If approved by the state, the company becomes a legal corporation.





Key Takeaways

A corporate charter is a document filed with the Secretary of State or registrar to establish a company as a corporation.The corporate charter must detail the governance, structure, objectives, operations, as well as other major details of the company.


   Understanding Corporate Charters  

The creation of corporate charters is the start to building a new corporation. Corporate charters signal the birth of a new corporation. Once filed and approved, a corporation becomes legitimate and legal. The document must be created and filed before the company can transact as a corporation.



If the corporate charter is not created before the business starts, the owners expose themselves to risk, including being personally liable for all the possible damages and debts created by the business during the period that the corporation transacted business without a legitimate corporate charter.






A corporate charter is a document establishing a company as a corporation in the US or Canada and detailing its governance, structure, operations, and more.


   Requirements of Corporate Charters  

At the most basic level, the corporate charter includes the corporation's name, its purpose, whether the corporation is a for-profit or nonprofit institution, the location of the corporation, the number of shares that are authorized to be issued, and the names of the parties involved in the formation. Corporate charters are filed with the state secretary in which the corporation is located. Typically, the state in which the company is located charges a filing fee to process the corporate charter.



Some government websites provide templates for corporate charters. However, some businesses opt to consult and hire business lawyers when creating and filing corporate charters to provide more legitimate and favorable legal business documents and environments.



The state in which the corporation is headquartered has specific requirements pertaining to the parts of the corporate charter. Depending on the type of corporation, some states require the inclusion of "Inc." or "Incorporated." The charter also includes the name of the authorized agent. No matter the location, a corporation must have a designated registered agent who serves as the authorized receiver of important legal documents for the corporation.



Corporations must provide the reasons why they were formed. This statement includes what the corporation does, their industry, and what type of products and services they provide.



Aside from providing a designated registered agent, the corporate charter must also include the names and addresses of the founders, corporate officers, and initial directors.



Also, corporations that are designated as stock corporations must provide the number of stock shares the company has the authority to issue and the par value per share.
What Is Corporate Citizenship?  

Corporate citizenship involves the social responsibility of businesses and the extent to which they meet legal, ethical, and economic responsibilities, as established by shareholders.



Corporate citizenship is growing increasingly important as both individual and institutional investors begin to seek out companies that have socially responsible orientations such as their environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices.





Key Takeaways

Corporate citizenship refers to a company’s responsibilities toward society.Corporate citizenship is growing increasingly important as both individual and institutional investors begin to seek out companies that have socially responsible orientations such as their environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices.Companies go through increasing stages during the process of developing corporate citizenship.


   Understanding Corporate Citizenship  

Corporate citizenship refers to a company’s responsibilities toward society. The goal is to produce higher standards of living and quality of life for the communities that surround them and still maintain profitability for stakeholders.



The demand for socially responsible corporations continues to grow, encouraging investors, consumers, and employees to use their individual power to force management of companies to work harder, think more creatively, and act in line with their values or become at risk of being affected negatively if they do not share or follow these values.



All businesses have basic ethical and legal responsibilities; however, the most successful businesses establish a strong foundation of corporate citizenship, showing a commitment to ethical behavior by creating a balance between the needs of shareholders and the needs of the community and environment in the surrounding area. These practices help bring in consumers and establish brand and company loyalty.






In 2010, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) released a set of voluntary standards meant to help companies implement corporate social responsibility.



Companies go through different stages during the process of developing corporate citizenship. Companies rise to the higher stages of corporate citizenship based on their capacity and credibility when supporting community activities, a strong understanding of community needs, and their dedication to incorporate citizenship within the culture and structure of their company.


   The Development of Corporate Citizenship  

The five stages of corporate citizenship are defined as:



ElementaryEngagedInnovativeIntegratedTransforming



In the elementary stage, a company’s citizenship activities are basic and undefined because there are scant corporate awareness and little to no senior management involvement. Small businesses, in particular, tend to linger in this stage. They are able to comply with the standard health, safety, and environmental laws, but they do not have the time nor the resources to fully develop greater community involvement.



In the engagement stage, companies will often develop policies that promote the involvement of employees and managers in activities that exceed rudimentary compliance to basic laws. Citizenship policies become more comprehensive in the innovative stage, with increased meetings and consultations with shareholders and through participation in forums and other outlets that promote innovative corporate citizenship policies.



In the integrated stage, citizenship activities are formalized and blend in fluidly with the company’s regular operations. Performance in community activities is monitored, and these activities are driven into the lines of business.



Once companies reach the transforming stage, they are deeply aware that corporate citizenship is an integral part of the company's strategy. It fuels sales growth, allows expansion to new markets, enables hiring the best talent, enables acquiring cheaper capital, and establishes an emotional bond and love for the brand. Economic and social involvement is a meshed activity of a company’s daily operations in this stage.


   Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  

Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a broad concept of corporate citizenship that can take various forms depending on the company and industry. Through CSR programs, philanthropy, and volunteer efforts, businesses can benefit society while boosting their own brands.



As important as CSR is for the community, it is equally valuable for a company. CSR activities can help forge a stronger bond between employees and corporations; they can boost morale and can help both employees and employers feel more connected with the world around them.



In order for a company to be socially responsible, it first needs to be responsible for itself and its shareholders. Often, companies that adopt CSR programs have grown their business to the point where they can give back to society. Thus, CSR is primarily a strategy of large corporations. Also, the more visible and successful a corporation is, the more responsibility it has to set standards of ethical behavior for its peers, competition, and industry.


   Starbucks As an Example  

Long before its initial public offering (IPO) in 1992, Starbucks was known for its keen sense of corporate social responsibility, and commitment to sustainability and community welfare. Starbucks has achieved corporate citizenship milestones including:



Reaching 99% ethically sourced coffeeCreating a global network of farmersPioneering green building throughout its storesContributing millions of hours of community serviceCreating a groundbreaking college program for its partner/employees



Starbucks’ goals include hiring 10,000 refugees across 75 countries, reducing the environmental impact of its cups, and engaging its employees in environmental leadership.
What Is Corporate Culture?  

Corporate culture refers to the values, beliefs, and behaviors that determine how a company's employees and management interact, perform, and handle business transactions. Often, corporate culture is implied, not expressly defined, and develops organically over time from the cumulative traits of the people that the company hires.



A company's culture will be reflected in its dress code, business hours, office setup, employee benefits, turnover, hiring decisions, treatment of employees and clients, client satisfaction, and every other aspect of operations.





Key Takeaways

Corporate culture refers to the beliefs and behaviors that determine how a company's employees and management should interact and perform.It can affect employee hiring and retention, performance and productivity, business results, and company longevity.Corporate culture is influenced by national cultures and traditions, economic trends, international trade, company size, and products.Corporate culture represents the core values of a company’s ideology and practice.The four types of corporate culture are clan culture, adhocracy culture, market culture, and hierarchy culture.












Investopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Corporate Culture  

Awareness of corporate or organizational culture in businesses and other organizations such as universities emerged in the 1960s. The term "corporate culture" developed in the early 1980s and became widely known by the 1990s. Corporate culture was used during those periods by managers, sociologists, and other academics to describe the character of a company.



Corporate culture emanated from generalized beliefs and behaviors, company-wide value systems, management strategies, employee communications and relations, work environment, and attitude. It would go on to include company origin stories put forth by charismatic chief executive officers (CEOs), as well as visual symbols such as logos and trademarks.



By 2015, corporate culture was not only created by the founders, management, and employees of a company, but was also influenced by national cultures and traditions, economic trends, international trade, company size, and products.



There are a variety of terms that relate to companies affected by multiple cultures, especially in the wake of globalization and the increased international interaction of today's business environment. These include:



Cross-culture refers to people from different backgrounds interacting in the business environment.
Culture shock refers to the confusion or anxiety people experience when conducting business in a society other than their own.
Reverse culture shock is often experienced by people who spend lengthy time abroad for business and have difficulty readjusting upon their return.



Companies often devote substantial resources and effort to create positive cross-culture experiences and to facilitate a more cohesive and productive corporate culture.






The awareness and importance of corporate culture is more acute now than ever. Big Four consulting firm Deloitte found that over 90% of executives believed that strong corporate culture is imperative for business success.


   Importance of Corporate Culture  

A carefully considered, even innovative, corporate culture can elevate companies above their competitors and support long-lasting success. Such a culture can:



Provide for a positive workplace environmentCreate an engaged, enthusiastic, and motivated workforceAttract high-value employeesReduce turnoverDrive and improve performance quality and productivityResult in favorable business resultsUnderpin a company's longevityStrengthen return on investment (ROI)Provide an implacable competitive advantageClarify for employees the goals of their positions, departments, and a company overallContribute to the diversification of the workforce


   Types of Corporate Culture  
  Clan Culture  

Clan cultures are about teamwork and collaboration. In such a culture, those in management function as enthusiastic mentors who provide guidance to subordinates. Good relationships, encouragement, trust, and participation are key aspects. The contribution potential of every employee is a component of a clan culture. Also, clan culture can easily adapt to change and implement needed action quickly.


  Adhocracy Culture  

Adhocracy culture creates an entrepreneurial workplace in which executives and employees function as innovators and risk-takers. In this flexible environment, agile thinking is nurtured. Employees are encouraged to pursue their aspirational ideas and take action to achieve results that can advance company goals. New and unconventional products and services are the main outcome of the adhocracy culture.


  Market Culture  

Market culture is focused on meeting specific targets and bottom line goals. This culture creates a working environment that's competitive and demanding. Management is most interested in business results. Employees are encouraged to work hard and "get the job done" to enhance a company's market presence, profits, and stock price. While employees may feel stressed in such a workplace, they can also feel enthusiastic and excited about their work.


  Hierarchy Culture  

A hierarchy culture is a traditional corporate culture that functions according to a company's executive, management, and staff organizational structure. That is, it follows the chain of command from top down, where executives oversee employees and their work efforts to meet specific goals. The hierarchy culture prizes stability and conventional methods of operation The work environment can be seen as more rigid than some other cultures but employees can clearly understand their roles and objectives. They may also feel a sense of security because of the more conservative approach to running a company.


   Examples of Contemporary Corporate Cultures  

Just as national cultures can influence and shape corporate culture, so can a company’s management strategy. In top companies of the 21st century, such as Google, Apple Inc. (AAPL), and Netflix Inc. (NFLX), less traditional management strategies that foster creativity, collective problem solving, and greater employee freedom have been the norm. They are thought to contribute to business success.



Alphabet (GOOGL), the parent of Google, is well known for its employee-friendly corporate culture. It explicitly defines itself as unconventional and offers perks such as telecommuting, flextime, tuition reimbursement, free employee lunches, and on-site doctors.



At its corporate headquarters in Mountain View, Calif., the company offers on-site services such as oil changes, car washes, massages, fitness classes, and a hairstylist. Its corporate culture helped it to consistently earn a high ranking on Fortune magazine's list of "100 Best Companies to Work For."



Progressive policies such as comprehensive employee benefits and alternatives to hierarchical leadership (even doing away with closed offices and cubicles) have been trends that reflect a more tech-conscious, modern generation of corporate culture. These trends mark a change from earlier aggressive, individualistic, and high-risk corporate cultures, such as that of former energy company Enron.



High-profile examples of alternative management strategies that significantly affect corporate culture include holacracy. This has been put to use at shoe company Zappos, owned by Amazon (AMZN), and agile management techniques applied at music streaming company Spotify.



Holacracy is an open management philosophy that, among other things, eliminates job titles and other such traditional hierarchies. Employees have flexible roles and self-organization, and collaboration is highly valued. Zappos instituted this program in 2014 and has met the challenge of transition with varying success and criticism.



Similarly, Spotify, a music-streaming service, uses the principles of agile management as part of its unique corporate culture. Agile management, in essence, focuses on deliverables with a flexible, trial-and-error strategy that often groups employees in a start-up environment approach to creatively tackle the company’s issues at hand.


   Characteristics of Successful Corporate Cultures  

Corporate cultures, whether shaped intentionally or grown organically, express the core of a company’s ideology and practice. They affect every aspect of a business, from each employee and customer to a company's public image.



The Harvard Business Review identified six important characteristics of successful corporate cultures in 2015. 


  Vision  

First and foremost is vision. Whether communicated via a simple mission statement or a corporate manifesto, a company’s vision can be a powerful tool. For example, Google’s famous slogan “Don’t Be Evil” is a compelling corporate vision.


  Values  

Values, while a broad concept, can embody the thinking and perspectives necessary to achieve a company’s vision. They can serve as a beacon for behavior necessary to progress toward all manner of success. Examples of values include fairness, trustworthiness, integrity, performance excellence, teamwork, and a high-quality customer experience.


  Practices  

Practices are the tangible methods, guided by ethics, by which a company implements its values. For example, Netflix emphasizes the importance of knowledge-based, high-achieving employees and, as such, Netflix pays its employees at the top of their market salary range, rather than through an earn-your-way-to-the-top philosophy.


  People  

People come next, with companies employing and recruiting in a way that reflects and enhances their overall culture. Plus, people are the key to bringing corporate culture to life and obtaining the high-value performances that can lead to favorable business outcomes.


  Narrative and Place  

Lastly, narrative and place are perhaps the most modern characteristics of corporate culture. Having a powerful narrative or origin story, such as that involving Steve Jobs and Apple, is important for growth and public image. The place of business, such as the city of choice and also the office design and architecture, is one of the most cutting-edge advents in contemporary corporate culture.



Other characteristics of corporate culture can include:


  Teamwork  

Employees should be encouraged and trained to work together with camaraderie and trust toward common goals. The benefits of teamwork, such as problem-solving, the development of innovative ideas, and improved productivity, should be demonstrated to the workforce.


  Training and Education  

Companies should provide the means for employees to improve their skills and enhance their knowledge so that the vision and goals of the company can be more reliably reached. Training and education can also provide employees with a path to new opportunities within their companies. This can motivate individuals to learn and do more.


  Innovation  

Innovation is exciting and can underscore the spirit of a company's vision. It can instill pride, confidence, and loyalty in the workforce.


  Leadership  

A company's management, including C-suite executives, should be accessible and open to providing assistance that supports all employees.


   How to Develop a Corporate Culture  

There is no single strategy for building a corporate culture because companies, industries, and people can be so different. However, the basic steps below may help you envision a corporate culture that spells success for your employees, clients, and company.



Define a company vision, values, and behaviors.Gather feedback from employees about your company's values, ideas, and work methods to improve the workplace environment and performance.Use small discussion groups, surveys, or town hall-type meetings to engage your employees and give them a voice.Establish methods, such as training at regular intervals, to communicate company values/behaviors and determine how well they are understood.Employ high-quality internal communications to maintain consistent contact with employees about company goals, the working environment, and employees' roles in the company's success.Establish guidelines that reinforce company values; e.g., a rule that employees should not be disturbed by work phone calls, emails, or texts during vacations or other types of time off.Recognize employees in a positive and public manner as a reward for their contributions to corporate success.Practice what you preach—ensure that management maintains a consistent behavioral approach to operations rather than cutting corners when convenient.Be approachable so that all employees may address their concerns and feel connected/of value.Foster teamwork rather than silos and isolation.Set goals for diversity and inclusion; celebrate the differences among people as you encourage consistent behavior from all.




What's Meant By "Corporate Culture"?
The term “corporate culture” refers to the values, beliefs, and practices associated with a particular corporation. For instance, corporate culture might be reflected in the way a corporation hires and promotes employees, or in its corporate mission statement. Some companies seek to associate themselves with a specific set of values, such as by defining themselves as an innovative or environmentally-conscious organization.




What Are Some Examples of Corporate Culture?
There are many examples of companies with well-defined corporate cultures. Alphabet Inc., for example, is known for its employee-centric culture and its emphasis on working in a creative and flexible environment, whereas Amazon is known for its relentless pursuit of customer service and operational efficiencies. Often, national cultures will play a role in determining the kind of corporate culture that is prevalent in society. For example, Japanese corporations are known for having markedly different corporate cultures as compared to those of American or European companies.




Why Is Corporate Culture Important?
Corporate culture is important because it can support important business objectives. Employees, for example, might be attracted to companies whose cultures they identify with, which in turn can drive employee retention and new talent acquisition. Fostering a culture of innovation can be critical to maintaining a competitive edge with respect to patents or other forms of intellectual property. Similarly, corporate culture can also play a role in marketing the company to customers and to society at large, thereby doubling as a form of public relations.


   The Bottom Line  

Corporate culture has become a vital, even essential, ingredient in the ongoing success of a business. It represents the values, beliefs, and goals of a company, as well as the consistent behavior expected from all employees, from top to bottom.



Not only is corporate culture an important key to attracting and retaining employees. It can also support high-quality employee performance, ongoing achievement, and the longevity of a company.
What Is Corporate Finance?  

Corporate finance is a subfield of finance that deals with how corporations address funding sources, capital structuring, accounting, and investment decisions.



Corporate finance is often concerned with maximizing shareholder value through long- and short-term financial planning and the implementation of various strategies. Corporate finance activities range from capital investment to tax considerations.





Key Takeaways

Corporate finance is concerned with how businesses fund their operations in order to maximize profits and minimize costs.It deals with the day-to-day demands on business cash flows as well as with long-term financing goals (e.g., issuing bonds).Corporate finance also deals with monitoring cash flows, accounting, preparing financial statements, and taxation.Determining whether or not to issue a dividend is another corporate finance activity.Corporate finance jobs can pay attractive salaries.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding Corporate Finance  

Corporate finance departments are charged with managing their firms' financial activities and capital investment decisions. Such decisions include whether to pursue a proposed investment and whether to pay for the investment with equity, debt, or both.



They also include whether shareholders should receive dividends, and if so, at what dividend yield. Additionally, the finance department manages current assets, current liabilities, and inventory control.



A company's corporate finance activities are often overseen by its chief financial officer (CFO).


   Corporate Finance Activities  
  Capital Investments  

Corporate finance tasks include making capital investments and deploying a company's long-term capital. The capital investment decision process is primarily concerned with capital budgeting.



Through capital budgeting, a company identifies capital expenditures, estimates future cash flows from proposed capital projects, compares planned investments with potential proceeds, and decides which projects to include in its capital budget.



Making capital investments is perhaps the most important corporate finance task and can have serious business implications. Poor capital budgeting (e.g., excessive investing or under-funded investments) can compromise a company's financial position, either because of increased financing costs or inadequate operating capacity.






Corporate financing includes the activities involved with a corporation's financing, investment, and capital budgeting decisions.


  Capital Financing  

Corporate finance also involves sourcing capital in the form of debt or equity. A company may borrow from commercial banks and other financial intermediaries or may issue debt securities in the capital markets through investment banks. A company may also choose to sell stocks to equity investors, especially when it needs large amounts of capital for business expansions.



Capital financing is a balancing act involving decisions about the necessary amounts of debt and equity. Having too much debt may increase default risk, and relying heavily on equity can dilute earnings and value for early investors. In the end, though, capital financing must provide the capital needed to implement capital investments.


  Short-Term Liquidity  

A corporate finance department is also tasked with short-term financial management. The goal is to ensure that there is enough liquidity to carry out continuing operations. Short-term financial management concerns current assets and current liabilities, or working capital and operating cash flows.



A company must be able to meet all its current obligations when they are due. This involves having enough current liquid assets to avoid disrupting a company's operations. Short-term financial management may also involve getting additional credit lines or issuing commercial paper as liquidity backup.


   Working in Corporate Finance  

Positions in the area of corporate finance attract many job seekers. In fact, there's typically great competition for many of these types of jobs. Some of the many corporate finance job titles include:



Chief financial officerFinancial planning and analysis managerCost analystFinancial analystTreasurerCorporate accountant



Corporate finance salaries can vary among companies. However, according to top job site, Indeed, the national average annual salaries for the positions noted above are:



Chief financial officer: $133,898Financial planning and analysis manager: $113,770Cost analyst: $83,304Financial analyst: $71,556Treasurer: $80,428Corporate accountant: $66,515




What Does Corporate Finance Do?
Corporate finance departments in companies focus on solid decision-making for profitable financial results. Thus, corporate finance involves activities that relate to the budgeting of capital, the debt and equity used to finance operations, management of working capital, and shareholder dividends.




What Is Corporate Finance vs. Finance?
Corporate finance is one of the subfields of the overall finance category. The others include public (or government) finance and personal finance.




What Are the 3 Main Areas of Corporate Finance?
The main areas of corporate finance are capital budgeting (e.g., for investing in company projects), capital financing (deciding how to fund projects/operations), and working capital management (managing assets and liabilities to operate efficiently).


   The Bottom Line  

Corporate finance is a subset of the field of finance. It concerns proper budgeting, raising capital to meet company needs and objectives with debt and/or equity, and the efficient management of a company's current assets and liabilities. The various jobs in corporate finance can pay well.
What Is Corporate Governance?  

Corporate governance is the system of rules, practices, and processes by which a firm is directed and controlled. Corporate governance essentially involves balancing the interests of a company's many stakeholders, such as shareholders, senior management executives, customers, suppliers, financiers, the government, and the community.



Since corporate governance provides the framework for attaining a company's objectives, it encompasses practically every sphere of management, from action plans and internal controls to performance measurement and corporate disclosure.





Key Takeaways

Corporate governance is the structure of rules, practices, and processes used to direct and manage a company.A company's board of directors is the primary force influencing corporate governance.Bad corporate governance can cast doubt on a company's operations and its ultimate profitability.Corporate governance covers the areas of environmental awareness, ethical behavior, corporate strategy, compensation, and risk management.The basic principles of corporate governance are accountability, transparency, fairness, responsibility, and risk management.


   Understanding Corporate Governance  

Governance refers specifically to the set of rules, controls, policies, and resolutions put in place to direct corporate behavior. A board of directors is pivotal in governance. Proxy advisors and shareholders are important stakeholders who can affect governance.



Communicating a firm's corporate governance is a key component of community and investor relations. For instance, Apple Inc.'s investor relations site outlines its corporate leadership (its executive team and board of directors). It provides corporate governance information including its committee charters and governance documents, such as bylaws, stock ownership guidelines, and articles of incorporation.



Most companies strive to have exceptional corporate governance. For many shareholders, it is not enough for a company merely to be profitable. It also must demonstrate good corporate citizenship through environmental awareness, ethical behavior, and sound corporate governance practices.


  Benefits of Corporate Governance  

Good corporate governance creates transparent rules and controls, provides guidance to leadership, and aligns the interests of shareholders, directors, management, and employees.It helps build trust with investors, the community, and public officials.Corporate governance can provide investors and stakeholders with a clear idea of a company's direction and business integrity.It promotes long-term financial viability, opportunity, and returns.It can facilitate the raising of capital.Good corporate governance can translate to rising share prices.It can lessen the potential for financial loss, waste, risks, and corruption.It is a game plan for resilience and long-term success.


   Corporate Governance and the Board of Directors  

The board of directors is the primary direct stakeholder influencing corporate governance. Directors are elected by shareholders or appointed by other board members. They represent shareholders of the company.



The board is tasked with making important decisions, such as corporate officer appointments, executive compensation, and dividend policy.



In some instances, board obligations stretch beyond financial optimization, as when shareholder resolutions call for certain social or environmental concerns to be prioritized.



Boards are often made up of insiders and independent members. Insiders are major shareholders, founders, and executives. Independent directors do not share the ties that insiders have. They are chosen for their experience managing or directing other large companies. Independents are considered helpful for governance because they dilute the concentration of power and help align shareholder interests with those of the insiders.



The board of directors must ensure that the company's corporate governance policies incorporate corporate strategy, risk management, accountability, transparency, and ethical business practices.






A board of directors should consist of a diverse group of individuals, including those who have skills and knowledge of the business and those who can bring a fresh perspective from outside of the company and industry.


   The Principles of Corporate Governance  

While there can be as many principles as a company believes make sense, some of the more well-known include the following.


  Fairness  

The board of directors must treat shareholders, employees, vendors, and communities fairly and with equal consideration.


  Transparency  

The board should provide timely, accurate, and clear information about such things as financial performance, conflicts of interest, and risks to shareholders and other stakeholders.


  Risk Management  

The board and management must determine risks of all kinds and how best to control them. They must act on those recommendations to manage them. They must inform all relevant parties about the existence and status of risks.


  Responsibility  

The board is responsible for the oversight of corporate matters and management activities. It must be aware of and support the successful, ongoing performance of the company. Part of its responsibility is to recruit and hire a CEO. It must act in the best interests of a company and its investors.


  Accountability  

The board must explain the purpose of a company's activities and the results of its conduct. It and company leadership are accountable for the assessment of a company's capacity, potential, and performance. It must communicate issues of importance to shareholders.


   Corporate Governance Models  
  The Anglo-American Model  

This model can take various forms, such as the Shareholder Model, the Stewardship Model, and the Political Model. However, the Shareholder Model is the principal model.



The Shareholder Model is designed so that the board of directors and shareholders are in control. Stakeholders such as vendors and employees, though acknowledged, lack control.



Management is tasked with running the company in a way that maximizes shareholder interest. Importantly, proper incentives should be made available to align management behavior with the goals of shareholders/owners.



The model accounts for the fact that shareholders provide the company with funds and may withdraw that support if dissatisfied. This can keep management working efficiently and effectively.



The board should consist of both insiders and independent members. Although traditionally, the board chairman and the CEO can be the same person, this model seeks to have two different people hold those roles.



The success of this corporate governance model depends on ongoing communications between the board, company management, and the shareholders. Important issues are brought to shareholders' attention. Important decisions to be made are put to shareholders for a vote.



U.S. regulatory authorities tend to support shareholders over boards and executive management.


  The Continental Model  

Two groups represent the controlling authority under the Continental Model. They are the supervisory board and the management board.



In this two-tiered system, the management board is comprised of company insiders, such as its executives. The supervisory board is made up of outsiders, such as shareholders and union representatives. Banks with stakes in a company also could have representatives on the supervisory board.



The two boards remain completely separate. The size of the supervisory board is determined by a country's law. It can't be changed by shareholders.



National interests have a strong influence on corporations with this model of corporate governance. Companies can be expected to align with government objectives.



This model also considers stakeholder engagement of great value, as they can support and  strengthen a company’s continued operations.


  The Japanese Model  

The key players in the Japanese Model of corporate governance are banks, affiliated entities, major shareholders called Keiretsu (who may be invested in common companies or have trading relationships), management, and the government. Smaller, independent, individual shareholders have no role or voice.



Together, these key players establish and control corporate governance.



The board of directors is usually comprised of insiders, including company executives. Keiretsu may remove directors from the board if profits wane.



The government affects the activities of corporate management via its regulations and policies.



In this model, corporate transparency is less likely due to the concentration of power and the focus on interests of those with that power.


   How to Assess Corporate Governance  

As an investor, you want to select companies that practice good corporate governance in the hope of avoiding losses and other negative consequences such as bankruptcy.



You can research certain areas of a company to determine whether or not it's practicing good corporate governance. These areas include:



Disclosure practices
Executive compensation structure (whether it's tied only to performance or also to other metrics)
Risk management (the checks and balances on decision-making)
Policies and procedures for reconciling conflicts of interest (how the company approaches business decisions that might conflict with its mission statement)
The members of the board of directors (their stake in profits or conflicting interests)
Contractual and social obligations (how a company approaches areas such as climate change)
Relationships with vendors
Complaints received from shareholders and how they were addressed
Audits (the frequency of internal and external audits and how issues have been handled)



Types of bad governance practices include:



Companies that do not cooperate sufficiently with auditors or do not select auditors with the appropriate scale, resulting in the publication of spurious or noncompliant financial documentsBad executive compensation packages that fail to create an optimal incentive for corporate officersPoorly structured boards that make it too difficult for shareholders to oust ineffective incumbents



Be sure to include corporate governance in your due diligence before making an investment decision.


   Examples of Corporate Governance  
  Volkswagen AG  

Bad corporate governance can cast doubt on a company's reliability, integrity, or obligation to shareholders. All can have implications for the firm's financial health. Tolerance or support of illegal activities can create scandals like the one that rocked Volkswagen AG starting in September 2015.



The details of "Dieselgate" (as the affair came to be known) revealed that for years, the automaker had deliberately and systematically rigged engine emission equipment in its cars in order to manipulate pollution test results in America and Europe.



Volkswagen saw its stock shed nearly half of its value in the days following the start of the scandal. Its global sales in the first full month following the news fell 4.5%.



VW's board structure facilitated the emissions rigging and was a reason it wasn't caught earlier. In contrast to a one-tier board system that is common in most companies, VW has a two-tier board system, which consists of a management board and a supervisory board.



The supervisory board was meant to monitor management and approve corporate decisions. However, it lacked the independence and authority to carry out these roles appropriately.



The supervisory board included a large portion of shareholders. Ninety percent of shareholder voting rights were controlled by members of the board. There was no real independent supervisor. As a result, shareholders were in control and negated the purpose of the supervisory board, which was to oversee management and employees, and how they operated. This allowed the rigged emissions to occur.


  Enron  

Public and government concern about corporate governance tends to wax and wane. Often, however, highly publicized revelations of corporate malfeasance revive interest in the subject.



For example, corporate governance became a pressing issue in the United States at the turn of the 21st century, after fraudulent practices bankrupted high-profile companies such as Enron and WorldCom.



The problem with Enron was that its board of directors waived many rules related to conflicts of interest by allowing the chief financial officer (CFO), Andrew Fastow, to create independent, private partnerships to do business with Enron.



These private partnerships were used to hide Enron's debts and liabilities. If they'd been accounted for properly, they would have reduced the company's profits significantly.



Enron's lack of corporate governance allowed the creation of the entities that hid the losses. The company also employed dishonest people, from Fastow down to its traders, who made illegal moves in the markets.



The Enron scandal and others in the same time period resulted in the 2002 passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. It imposed more stringent recordkeeping requirements on companies, along with stiff criminal penalties for violating them and other securities laws. The aim was to restore public confidence in public companies and how they operate.


  PepsiCo  

It's common to hear about examples of bad corporate governance. In fact, it's often why companies end up in the news. You rarely hear about companies with good corporate governance because their corporate guiding policies keep them out of trouble.



One company that has consistently practices good corporate governance, and adapts or updates it often, is PepsiCo. In drafting its 2020 proxy statement, PepsiCo sought input from investors in six areas:



Board composition, diversity, and refreshment, plus leadership structure
Long-term strategy, corporate purpose, and sustainability issues
Good governance practices and ethical corporate culture
Human capital management
Compensation discussion and analysis
Shareholder and stakeholder engagement



The company included in its proxy statement a graphic of its current leadership structure. It showed a combined chair and CEO along with an independent presiding director and a link between the company's "Winning With Purpose" vision and changes to the executive compensation program.




What Are the 4 Ps of Corporate Governance?
The four P's of corporate governance are people, process, performance, and purpose.




Why Is Corporate Governance Important?
Corporate governance is important because it creates a system of rules and practices that determines how a company operates and how it aligns with the interest of all its stakeholders. Good corporate governance leads to ethical business practices, which leads to financial viability. In turn, that can attract investors.




What Are the Basic Principles of Corporate Governance?
The basic principles of corporate governance are accountability, transparency, fairness, responsibility, and risk management.


   The Bottom Line  

Corporate governance consists of the guiding principles that a company puts in place to direct all of its operations, from compensation, risk management, and employee treatment to reporting unfair practices, dealing with impact on the climate, and more.



Corporate governance that calls for upstanding, transparent company behavior leads a company to make ethical decisions that benefit all of its stakeholders. It can underscore a potential investment for investors. Bad corporate governance leads to a breakdown of a company, often resulting in scandals and bankruptcy.
What Is Corporate Hierarchy?  

The term corporate hierarchy refers to the arrangement and organization of individuals within a corporation according to power, status, and job function. In general, a hierarchy is any system or organization in which people or groups are ranked one above the other according to status or authority. While most corporations and businesses have hierarchies, they can also be part of any organization, including governments and any organized religion.



A corporate hierarchy delineates both authority and responsibility and designates leadership over a corporation's employees, departments, divisions, and other executives depending on their place within the strata.





Key Takeaways

Corporate hierarchy refers to the organization of people within a corporation according to power, status, and job function.Small businesses generally have a simple organizational structure, while the structure of larger corporations tends to be more complex.Corporate hierarchies typically resemble a pyramid—the more powerful people sit at the top, while employees with the least amount of power are at the bottom.



A corporate hierarchy may also be referred to as the chain of command within a business because it outlines where decision-makers reside. It also defines who must adhere to those orders and who may supersede and make changes to the plans of their subordinates. The corporate hierarchy ultimately affects the ability of employees of a company to advance within the company and can also impact corporate culture.


   Understanding Corporate Hierarchy  

Most corporate hierarchies resemble a pyramid, where the most powerful person is at the top and their subordinates sit underneath. Those with the least amount of power—generally regular employees—sit at the bottom of the pyramid. Some firms, though, may have horizontal hierarchies, where power and responsibility are more evenly spread across the firm.



Businesses and corporations are organized in a hierarchical structure so management can run the company in a managed way. When businesses are small, or just starting out, the organizational structure may be fairly simple. But as companies grow, the structure becomes more complex.



In a public company, the board of directors is a group of people elected or appointed to represent the interests of shareholders. The board has certain duties such as hiring and firing executives, setting executive compensation, establishing dividends, and other administrative policies. This group is led by a chairperson who usually resides at the top of the hierarchy.



The next group is made up of the company's executive officers, led by the chief executive officer (CEO). The CEO is the highest-ranking executive. The CEO's duties include making major corporate decisions and managing the overall operations of the corporation. Other executives include the chief financial officer (CFO), the chief operating officer (COO), and the chief information officer (CIO)—all of whom require a great deal of executive experience.



The next rung on the corporate hierarchy ladder is inhabited by a company's vice presidents and directors. Some of the functions of this level include corporate functions including sales, marketing, research and development (R&D), and human resources.



Other levels of the hierarchy include managers who deal specifically with smaller departments of the company. They are also in charge of regular employees, who do the jobs that keep the company running. These people are typically at the bottom of the hierarchy.






A person's hierarchical position also determines how much they get paid—the higher the position, the higher the compensation.



The configuration of a corporate hierarchy typically evolves as an organization matures. The founding team may make up the executive leadership, which can have a loose structure when a company launches. As more managers, employees, and investors become part of the endeavor, new layers are inevitably introduced to give clarity to the organization’s operational flow and the duties of each member.



There are companies that claim to have a nontraditional corporate hierarchy, typically as a means to share responsibility across all employees and leaders. This may also influence elements of corporate culture, such as the layout of the company’s office.



In many organizations, the higher one’s standing is in the hierarchy, the greater the effect on the size, location, and aesthetics of the workspace. Premium office space, for instance, is often reserved for executives. Access to perks such as chambers reserved for executive use or, if it is within the company’s means, use of private jets and car service may also be an amenity reserved for members of upper leadership.
What Is Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)?  

Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a self-regulating business model that helps a company be socially accountable to itself, its stakeholders, and the public. By practicing corporate social responsibility, also called corporate citizenship, companies can be conscious of the kind of impact they are having on all aspects of society, including economic, social, and environmental.



Engaging in CSR means that, in the ordinary course of business, a company is operating in ways that enhance society and the environment instead of contributing negatively to them.






Subscribe to 'Term of the Day' and learn a new financial term every day. Stay informed and make smart financial decisions. Sign up now.





Key Takeaways

Corporate social responsibility is a business model by which companies make a concerted effort to operate in ways that enhance rather than degrade society and the environment.CSR can help improve various aspects of society as well as promote a positive brand image for companies.Corporate responsibility programs can also raise morale in the workplace. CSR is often broken into four categories: environmental impacts, ethical responsibility, philanthropic endeavors, and financial responsibilities.Some examples of companies that strive to be leaders in CSR include Starbucks and Ben & Jerry's.


   Understanding Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  

Corporate social responsibility is a broad concept that can take many forms depending on the company and industry. Through CSR programs, philanthropy, and volunteer efforts, businesses can benefit society while boosting their brands.



For a company to be socially responsible, it first needs to be accountable to itself and its shareholders. Companies that adopt CSR programs have often grown their business to the point where they can give back to society. Thus, CSR is typically a strategy that's implemented by large corporations. After all, the more visible and successful a corporation is, the more responsibility it has to set standards of ethical behavior for its peers, competition, and industry.






Small and midsize businesses also create social responsibility programs, although their initiatives are rarely as well-publicized as those of larger corporations.


   Types of Corporate Social Responsibility  

In general, there are four main types of corporate social responsibility. A company may choose to engage in any of these separately, and lack of involvement in one area does not necessarily exclude a company from being socially responsible.


  Environmental Responsibility  

Environmental responsibility is the pillar of corporate social responsibility rooted in preserving mother nature. Through optimal operations and support of related causes, a company can ensure that it leaves natural resources better than before its operations. A company can pursue environmental stewardship through:



Reducing pollution, waste, natural resource consumption, and emissions through its manufacturing process.
Recycling goods and materials throughout its processes, including promoting re-use practices with its customers.
Offsetting negative impacts by replenishing natural resources or supporting causes that can help neutralize the company's impact. For example, a manufacturer that deforests trees may commit to planting the same amount or more.
Distributing goods consciously by choosing methods that have the least impact on emissions and pollution.
Creating product lines that enhance these values. For example, a company that offers a gas lawnmower may design an electric lawnmower.


  Ethical Responsibility  

Ethical responsibility is the pillar of corporate social responsibility rooted in acting in a fair, ethical manner. Companies often set their own standards, although external forces or demands by clients may shape ethical goals. Instances of ethical responsibility include:



Fair treatment across all types of customers regardless of age, race, culture, or sexual orientation.
Positive treatment of all employees including favorable pay and benefits in excess of mandated minimums. This includes fair employment consideration for all individuals regardless of personal differences.
Expansion of vendor use to utilize different suppliers of different races, genders, veteran statuses, or economic statuses.
Honest disclosure of operating concerns to investors in a timely and respectful manner. Though not always mandated, a company may choose to manage its relationship with external stakeholders beyond what is legally required.


  Philanthropic Responsibility  

Philanthropic responsibility is the pillar of corporate social responsibility that challenges how a company acts and how it contributes to society. In its simplest form, philanthropic responsibility refers to how a company spends its resources to make the world a better place. This includes:



Whether a company donates profit to charities or causes it believes in.
Whether a company enters into transactions only with suppliers or vendors that align with the company philanthropically.
Whether a company supports employee philanthropic endeavors through time off or matching contributions.
Whether a company sponsors fundraising events or has a presence in the community.


  Financial Responsibility  

Financial responsibility is the pillar of corporate social responsibility that ties together the three areas above. A company might make plans to be more environmentally, ethically, and philanthropically focused; however, it must back these plans through financial investments of programs, donations, or product research. This includes spending on:



Research and development for new products that encourage sustainability.
Recruiting different types of talent to ensure a diverse workforce.
Initiatives that train employees on DEI, social awareness, or environmental concerns.
Processes that might be more expensive but yield greater CSR results.
Ensuring transparent and timely financial reporting including external audits.





Volunteering

Some corporate social responsibility models replace financial responsibility with a sense of volunteerism. Otherwise, most models still include environmental, ethical, and philanthropic as types of CSR.


   Benefits of Corporate Social Responsibility  

As important as CSR is for the community, it is equally valuable for a company. CSR activities can help forge a stronger bond between employees and corporations, boost morale, and aid both employees and employers in feeling more connected to the world around them. Aside from the positive impacts to the planet, here are some additional reasons businesses pursue corporate social responsibility.


  Brand Recognition  

According to a study published in the Journal of Consumer Psychology, consumers are more likely to act favorably toward a company that has acted to benefit its customers as opposed to companies that have demonstrated an ability to delivery quality products. Customers are increasingly becoming more aware of the impacts companies can have on their community, and many now base purchasing decisions on the CSR aspect of a business. As a company engages more in CSR, it is more likely to receive favorable brand recognition.


  Investor Relations  

In a study by Boston Consulting Group, companies that are considered leaders in environmental, social, or governance matters had an 11% valuation premium over their competitors. For companies looking to get an edge and outperform the market, enacting CSR strategies tends to improve how investors feel about an organization and how they view the worth of the company.


  Employee Engagement  

Another study by professionals from Texas A&M, Temple, and the University of Minnesota found that CSR-related aligning firms and employees serve as non-financial job benefits that strengthen employee retention. Workers are more likely to stick around a company that they believe in. This in turn reduces employee turnover, disgruntled workers, and the total cost of a new employee.


  Risk Mitigation  

By adhering to CSR practices, companies can mitigate risk by avoiding troubling situations. This includes preventing adverse activities such as discrimination against employee groups, disregard for natural resources, or unethical use of company funds. This type of activity is likely to lead to lawsuits, litigation, or legal proceedings that may harm the company financially or expose it to negative news headlines.






CSR strategies may be difficult to assess strategically because not all benefits may be financially translatable back to the company. For example, it might be very difficult to assess the positive impact to a company's brand image that planting 1 million trees may have.


   ISO 26000  

In 2010, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) released ISO 26000, a set of voluntary standards meant to help companies implement corporate social responsibility. Unlike other ISO standards, ISO 26000 provides guidance rather than requirements because the nature of CSR is more qualitative than quantitative, and its standards cannot be certified.



ISO 26000 clarifies what social responsibility is and helps organizations translate CSR principles into practical actions. The standard is aimed at all types of organizations, regardless of their activity, size, or location. And because many key stakeholders from around the world contributed to developing ISO 26000, this standard represents an international consensus.


   Examples of Corporate Social Responsibility  
  Starbucks  

Starbucks (SBUX) has long been known for its keen sense of corporate social responsibility and commitment to sustainability and community welfare. In its 2022 Environmental and Social Impact Report, the coffee giant highlights taking care of its workforce and the planet among its CSR priorities. Starbucks points to its investments in its employees through stock grants and providing additional medical, family, and educational benefits. In terms of environmental sustainability, the company's goals include achieving 50% reductions in greenhouse gas emission, water consumption, and waste by 2030.


  Home Depot  

As part of its annual reporting on ESG, Home Depot (HD) highlighted its achievements in focusing on its employees, operating sustainably, and strengthening its communities. The company has invested more than 1 million hours per year in training to help front-line employees advance in their careers, aims to produce or procure 100% renewable energy to operate its facilities by 2030, and has plans to spend $5 billion per year with diverse suppliers by 2025.


  General Motors  

General Motors won the Sustainability Leadership Award from Business Intelligence Group in 2022 and was among Diversity Inc.'s top 50 companies for diversity for a seventh consecutive year in 2021. According to its latest Sustainability Report, the automaker provided $60 million in grants to more than 400 U.S. nonprofits focusing on social issues, and it has agreements in place to use 100% renewable electricity at its U.S. sites by 2025.




Why Should a Company Implement CSR Strategies?
Many companies view CSR as an integral part of their brand image, believing that customers will be more likely to do business with brands that they perceive to be more ethical. In this sense, CSR activities can be an important component of corporate public relations. At the same time, some company founders are also motivated to engage in CSR due to their convictions.




Why Is CSR Important?
The movement toward CSR has had an impact in several domains. For example, many companies have taken steps to improve the environmental sustainability of their operations, through measures such as installing renewable energy sources or purchasing carbon offsets. In managing supply chains, efforts have also been taken to eliminate reliance on unethical labor practices, such as child labor and slavery.Although CSR programs have generally been most common among large corporations, small businesses also participate in CSR through smaller-scale programs, such as donating to local charities and sponsoring local events.




What Are the Benefits of CSR?
CRS initiatives strive to have a positive impact on the world through direct benefits to society, nature and the community in which a business operations. In addition, a company may experience internal benefits through the initiatives. Knowing their company is promoting good causes, employee satisfaction may increase and retention of staff may be strengthened. In addition, members of society may be more likely to choose to transact with companies that are attempting to make a more conscious positive impact beyond the scope of its business.




What Are the 4 Types of CSR?
CSR initiatives are often broken down into four categories: environmental, philanthropic, ethical, and economic responsibility. Environmental initiatives focus on preservation of natural resources, while philanthropic initiatives focus on donating to worthy causes that may not relate to a business. Ethical responsibility ensures fair and honest business operations, while economic responsibility promotes the fiscal support of the goals above.




What Companies Have the Best CSR?
There is no single defining rubric for evaluating the CSR of all companies. Various sources will review and compile rankings differently. Since 1999, Corporate Responsibility Magazine has ranked the top 100 Best Corporate Citizens each year among the 1,000 largest U.S. public companies. Rankings are determined based on employee relations, environment impact, human rights, governance, and financial decisions.In 2022, the top five ranked companies on the list were Owens Corning (OC), PepsiCo (PEP), Apple (AAPL), H.P. (HPQ), and Cisco (CSCO).


   The Bottom Line  

Companies striving to measure success beyond bottom-line financial results may adopt corporate social responsibility strategies. These strategies may target environmental, ethical, philanthropic, and fiscal responsibility that extend beyond the products they sell. CSR aims to make the world a better place beyond transacting with customers and may result in company-specific benefits as well.
What Is Corporate Tax?  

A corporate tax is a tax on the profits of a corporation. The taxes are paid on a company's taxable income, which includes revenue minus cost of goods sold (COGS), general and administrative (G&A) expenses, selling and marketing, research and development, depreciation, and other operating costs.



Corporate tax rates vary widely by country, with some countries considered to be tax havens due to their low rates. Corporate taxes can be lowered by various deductions, government subsidies, and tax loopholes, and so the effective corporate tax rate, the rate a corporation actually pays, is usually lower than the statutory rate; the stated rate before any deductions.





Key Takeaways

Corporate taxes are collected by the government as a source of income.Taxes are based on taxable income after expenses have been deducted.The corporate tax rate in the United States is currently at a flat rate of 21%. Before the Trump tax reforms of 2017, the corporate tax rate was 35%.A company can register as an S corporation to avoid double taxation. An S corporation does not pay corporate tax as the income passes through to business owners who are taxed through their individual tax returns.


   Understanding Corporate Tax  

The federal corporate tax rate in the United States is currently a flat 21%, as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), which President Donald Trump signed into law in 2017 and which went into effect in 2018. Previously, the maximum U.S. corporate income tax rate was 35%.



U.S. corporate tax returns are generally due by the 15th day of the fourth month following the end of the corporation's tax year. Corporations may request a six-month extension to file their corporate tax returns in September. Installment payment due dates for estimated tax returns occur in the middle of April, June, September, and December. Corporate taxes are reported on Form 1120 for U.S. corporations. If a corporation has more than $10 million in assets, it must file online.


   Corporate Tax Deductions  

Corporations are permitted to reduce taxable income by certain necessary and ordinary business expenditures. All current expenses required for the operation of the business are fully tax-deductible. Investments and real estate purchased with the intent of generating income for the business are also deductible.



A corporation can deduct employee salaries, health benefits, tuition reimbursement, and bonuses. In addition, a corporation can reduce its taxable income by deducting insurance premiums, travel expenses, bad debts, interest payments, sales taxes, fuel taxes, and excise taxes. Tax preparation fees, legal services, bookkeeping, and advertising costs can also be used to reduce business income.


   Special Considerations  

A central issue relating to corporate taxation is the concept of double taxation. Certain corporations are taxed on the taxable income of the company. If this net income is distributed to shareholders, these individuals are forced to pay individual income taxes on the dividends received. Instead, a business may register as an S corporation and have all income pass-through to the business owners. An S corporation does not pay corporate tax as all taxes are paid through individual tax returns.


   Advantages of a Corporate Tax  

Paying corporate taxes can be more beneficial for business owners than paying additional individual income tax. Corporate tax returns deduct medical insurance for families as well as fringe benefits, including retirement plans and tax-deferred trusts. It is easier for a corporation to deduct losses, too.



A corporation may deduct the entire amount of losses while a sole proprietor must provide evidence regarding the intent to earn a profit before the losses can be deducted. Finally, profit earned by a corporation may be left within the corporation, allowing for tax planning and potential future tax advantages.
What Is a Corporation?  

A corporation is a legal entity that is separate and distinct from its owners. Under the law, corporations possess many of the same rights and responsibilities as individuals. They can enter contracts, loan and borrow money, sue and be sued, hire employees, own assets, and pay taxes.



A corporation's distinguishing characteristic is limited liability. Shareholders profit through dividends and stock appreciation but are not personally liable for the company's debts. Almost all large businesses are corporations, including Microsoft Corp. and Coca-Cola Co. Some corporations do business under their names and separate business names, such as Alphabet Inc., which does business as Google.





Key Takeaways

Corporations possess many of the same legal rights and responsibilities as individuals.Limited liability of a corporation means that its shareholders are not personally responsible for the company's debts.A corporation may be created by an individual or a group of people. 












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Incorporation  

A corporation is created when it is incorporated by a group of shareholders with a common goal who share ownership represented by their holding of stock shares. Corporations may return a profit to their shareholders. However, some corporations, such as charities or fraternal organizations, are nonprofit or not-for-profit.



A private or "closed corporation" may have a single shareholder or several. Publicly-traded corporations have many shareholders. In the U.S., corporations are created and regulated by state laws. Public corporations are regulated by federal law through the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).






Both a limited liability company (LLC) and a corporation offer similar legal advantages to their owners: they cannot be held personally liable for the debts of either entity.


   Legal Requirements  

Each state has laws regarding incorporation. Most states require the owners to file articles of incorporation with the state and then issue stock to the company's shareholders. The shareholders elect the board of directors in an annual meeting.



Turning a private corporation into a public corporation is complex, as it falls under federal laws requiring full and public disclosure of financial information to potential shareholders and the government.


   Operating a Corporation  

The shareholders of a corporation typically receive one vote per share and may hold an annual meeting during which they elect a board of directors. The board hires and oversees the senior management responsible for the corporation's day-to-day activities.



The board of directors executes the corporation's business plan. Although the members are not personally responsible for the corporation's debts, they owe a duty of care to the corporation and can incur personal liabilities if they neglect this duty. Some tax statutes also provide for the personal liabilities of the board of directors.


   Liquidating a Corporation  

The incorporation can be ended using the process called liquidation. This may be a voluntary decision to cease operations or may be forced by the financial collapse of the business. A company appoints a liquidator who sells the corporation's assets. The company pays any creditors and distributes any remaining money to the shareholders.



An involuntary liquidation is triggered by the creditors of a corporation that has failed to pay its bills. If the situation cannot be resolved, it is followed by a filing for bankruptcy.




What Is a Corporation vs. a Business?
Many businesses are corporations, and vice versa. A business may seek to incorporate existing as a legal entity separate from its owners. This means that the owners cannot be held responsible for the debts of the corporation. It also means that the corporation can own assets, sue or be sued, and borrow money.




How Is a Corporation Formed?
To form a corporation in the U.S., it is necessary to file articles of incorporation with the state in which it will be registered. The details vary from state to state. In the U.K., Ireland, and Canada corporations can use the abbreviation Ltd. (limited) after the company's name. They might also appear as public limited companies (PLCs).




What Is the Difference Between a Limited Liability Company and a Corporation?
Both a limited liability company (LLC) and a corporation offer similar legal advantages to their owners: they cannot be held liable for the debts of either entity. LLCs have a tax advantage in that they are "pass-through," with profits and tax responsibility passed to the owners rather than paid by the LLC. LLCs are governed by an operating agreement that sets out the roles and responsibilities of its members, and establishing an LLC is relatively straightforward. By comparison, a corporation elects a board of directors, conducts annual meetings, and adopts bylaws.


   The Bottom Line  

A corporation may be formed by an individual or group with a shared goal and can be a for-profit or not-for-profit entity. Corporations possess many of the same legal rights and responsibilities as individuals. The limited liability nature of a corporation means that its shareholders are not personally responsible for the company's debts.
What Is a Correction?  

In investing, a correction is usually defined as a decline of 10% or more in the price of a security from its most recent peak. Corrections can happen to individual assets, like an individual stock or bond, or to an index measuring a group of assets. 



An asset, index, or market may fall into a correction either briefly or for sustained periods—days, weeks, months, or even longer. However, the average market correction is short-lived and lasts anywhere between three and four months.



Investors, traders, and analysts use charting methods to predict and track corrections. Many factors can trigger a correction. From a large-scale macroeconomic shift to problems in a single company's management plan, the reasons behind a correction are as varied as the stocks, indexes, or markets they affect.





Key Takeaways

A correction is a decline of 10% or greater in the price of a security, asset, or a financial market.Corrections can last anywhere from days to months, or even longer.While damaging in the short term, a correction can be positive, adjusting overvalued asset prices and providing buying opportunities.


   How a Correction Works  

Corrections are like that spider under your bed. You know it's there, lurking, but don't know when it will make its next appearance. While you might lose sleep over that spider, you shouldn't lose sleep over the possibility of a correction.



According to a 2018 report from CNBC and Goldman Sachs, the average correction for the S&P 500 lasted only four months and values fell around 13% before recovering. However, it is easy to see why an individual or novice investor may worry about a 10% or greater downward adjustment to the value of their portfolio assets during a correction. Many do not see it coming and don't know how long the correction will last. For those who remain in the market for the long term however, a correction is only a small pothole on the road to retirement savings. The market will eventually recover, so they should not panic.



Of course, a dramatic correction that occurs in the course of one trading session can be disastrous for a short-term or day trader and those traders who are extremely leveraged. These traders could see significant losses during times of corrections.



No one can pinpoint when a correction will start, end, or tell how drastic of a drop prices will take until after it's over. What analysts and investors can do is look at the data of past corrections and plan accordingly.


   Charting a Correction  

Corrections can sometimes be projected using market analysis, and by comparing one market index to another. Using this method an analyst may discover that an underperforming index may be followed closely by a similar index that is also underperforming. A steady trend of these similarities may be a sign that a market correction is imminent.



Technical analysts review price support and resistance levels to help predict when a reversal or consolidation may turn into a correction. Technical corrections happen when an asset or the entire market gets overinflated. Analysts use charting to track the changes over time in an asset, index, or market. Some of the tools they use to determine where to expect price support and resistance levels include Bollinger Bands®, envelope channels, and trendlines.


   Preparing Investments for a Correction  

Before a market correction, individual stocks may be strong or even outperforming. During a correction period, individual assets frequently perform poorly due to adverse market conditions. Corrections can create an ideal time to buy high-value assets at discounted prices. However, investors must still weigh the risks involved with purchases, as they could well see a further decline as the correction continues.



Protecting investments against corrections can be difficult, but doable. To deal with declining equity prices, investors can set stop-loss orders or stop-limit orders. The former is automatically triggered when a price hits a level pre-set by the investor. However, the transaction may not get executed at that price level if prices are falling fast.



The second stop order sets both a specified target price and an outside limit price for the trade. Stop-loss guarantees execution where stop-limit guarantees price. Stop orders should be regularly monitored, to ensure they reflect current market situations and true asset values. Also, many brokers will allow stop orders to expire after a period.


   Investing During a Correction  

While a correction can affect all equities, it often hits some equities harder than others. Small-cap, high-growth stocks in volatile sectors, like technology, tend to react the strongest. Other sectors are more buffered. Consumer staples stocks, for example, tend to be business cycle-proof, as they involve the production or retailing of necessities. So if a correction is caused by, or deepens into, an economic downturn, these stocks still perform.



Diversification also offers protection if it involves assets that perform in opposition to those being corrected, or those that are influenced by different factors. Bonds and investment vehicles have traditionally been a counterweight to equities, for example. Real or tangible assets, like commodities or real estate, are another option to financial assets like stocks.



Although market corrections can be challenging, and a 10% drop may significantly hurt many investment portfolios, corrections are sometimes considered positive for both the market and for investors. For the market, corrections can help to readjust and recalibrate asset valuations that may have become unsustainably high. For investors, corrections can provide both the opportunity to take advantage of discounted asset prices as well as to learn valuable lessons on how rapidly market environments can change.





Pros

Creates buying opportunities into high-value stocks
Can be mitigated by stop-loss/limit orders
Calms overinflated markets



Cons

Can lead to panic, overselling
Harms short-term investors, leveraged traders
Can turn into prolonged decline





   Real-World Examples of a Correction  

Market corrections occur relatively often. Between 1980 and 2020, the S&P 500 experienced 18 corrections. Five of these corrections resulted in bear markets, which are generally indicators of economic downturns. The others remained or transitioned back into bull markets, which are usually indicators of economic growth and stability.



Take 2018, for example. In February 2018, two major indexes, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) and the S&P 500, both experienced corrections, dropping by more than 10%. Both the Nasdaq and the S&P 500 also experienced corrections in late October 2018.



Each time, the markets rebounded. Then another correction occurred Dec. 17, 2018, and both the DJIA and the S&P 500 dropped over 10%—the S&P 500 fell 15% from its all-time high. Declines continued into early January with predictions that the U.S. had finally ended a bear market abounding.



The markets began to rally, erasing all the year's losses by the end of January. And by April 2019, the S&P 500 was up about 20% since the dark days of December.
What Is Correlation?  

Correlation, in the finance and investment industries, is a statistic that measures the degree to which two securities move in relation to each other. Correlations are used in advanced portfolio management, computed as the correlation coefficient, which has a value that must fall between -1.0 and +1.0.





Key Takeaways

Correlation is a statistic that measures the degree to which two variables move in relation to each other.In finance, the correlation can measure the movement of a stock with that of a benchmark index, such as the S&P 500.Correlation is closely tied to diversification, the concept that certain types of risk can be mitigated by investing in assets that are not correlated.Correlation measures association, but doesn't show if x causes y or vice versa—or if the association is caused by a third factor.Correlation may be easiest to identify using a scatterplot, especially if the variables have a non-linear yet still strong correlation.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   What Correlation Can Tell You  

Correlation shows the strength of a relationship between two variables and is expressed numerically by the correlation coefficient. The correlation coefficient's values range between -1.0 and 1.0.



A perfect positive correlation means that the correlation coefficient is exactly 1. This implies that as one security moves, either up or down, the other security moves in lockstep, in the same direction. A perfect negative correlation means that two assets move in opposite directions, while a zero correlation implies no linear relationship at all.



For example, large-cap mutual funds generally have a high positive correlation to the Standard and Poor's (S&P) 500 Index or nearly one. Small-cap stocks tend to have a positive correlation to the S&P, but it's not as high or approximately 0.8.



However, put option prices and their underlying stock prices will tend to have a negative correlation. A put option gives the owner the right but not the obligation to sell a specific amount of an underlying security at a pre-determined price within a specified time frame.



Put option contracts become more profitable when the underlying stock price decreases. In other words, as the stock price increases, the put option prices go down, which is a direct and high-magnitude negative correlation.


   How to Calculate Correlation  

There are several methods of calculating correlation. The most common method, the Pearson product-moment correlation, is discussed further in this article. The Pearson product-moment correlation measures the linear relationship between two variables. It can be used for any data set that has a finite covariance matrix. Here are the steps to calculate correlation.



Gather data for your "x-variable" and "y variable. Find the mean for the x-variable and find the mean for the y-variable.Subtract the mean of the x-variable from each value of the x-variable. Repeat this step for the y-variable.Multiply each difference between the x-variable mean and x-variable value by the corresponding difference related to the y-variable.Square each of these differences and add the results.Determine the square root of the value obtained in Step 5.Divide the value in Step 4 by the value obtained in Step 6. 






To avoid the complex manual calculation, consider using the CORREL function in Excel.


  Formula for Correlation  

Using the Pearson product-moment correlation method, the following formula can be used to find the correlation coefficient, r:


















r


=




n


×


(


∑


(


X


,


Y


)


−


(


∑


(


X


)


×


∑


(


Y


)


)


)





(


n


×


∑


(



X


2



)


−


∑


(


X



)


2



)


×


(


n


×


∑


(



Y


2



)


−


∑


(


Y



)


2



)



















where:
















r


=


Correlation coefficient
















n


=


Number of observations







\begin{aligned}&r = \frac { n \times ( \sum (X, Y) - ( \sum (X) \times \sum (Y) ) ) }{ \sqrt { ( n \times \sum (X ^ 2) - \sum (X) ^ 2 ) \times ( n \times \sum( Y ^ 2 ) - \sum (Y) ^ 2 ) } } \\&\textbf{where:}\\&r=\text{Correlation coefficient}\\&n=\text{Number of observations}\end{aligned}


​r=(n×∑(X2)−∑(X)2)×(n×∑(Y2)−∑(Y)2)​n×(∑(X,Y)−(∑(X)×∑(Y)))​where:r=Correlation coefficientn=Number of observations​


   Example of Correlation  

Investment managers, traders, and analysts find it very important to calculate correlation because the risk reduction benefits of diversification rely on this statistic. Financial spreadsheets and software can calculate the value of correlation quickly.



As a hypothetical example, assume that an analyst needs to calculate the correlation for the following two data sets:



X: (41, 19, 23, 40, 55, 57, 33)



Y: (94, 60, 74, 71, 82, 76, 61)



There are three steps involved in finding the correlation. The first is to add up all the X values to find SUM(X), add up all the Y values to fund SUM(Y) and multiply each X value with its corresponding Y value and sum them to find SUM(X,Y):



SUM(X) = (41 + 19 + 23 + 40 + 55 + 57 + 33) = 268



SUM(Y) = (94 + 60 + 74 + 71 + 82 + 76 + 61) = 518



SUM(X,Y) = (41 x 94) + (19 x 60) + (23 x 74) + ... (33 x 61) = 20,391



The next step is to take each X value, square it, and sum up all these values to find SUM(x^2). The same must be done for the Y values:



SUM(X^2) = (41^2) + (19^2) + (23^2) + ... (33^2) = 11,534



SUM(Y^2) = (94^2) + (60^2) + (74^2) + ... (61^2) = 39,174



Noting that there are seven observations, n, the following formula can be used to find the correlation coefficient, r:


















r


=




n


×


(


∑


(


X


,


Y


)


−


(


∑


(


X


)


×


∑


(


Y


)


)


)





(


n


×


∑


(



X


2



)


−


∑


(


X



)


2



)


×


(


n


×


∑


(



Y


2



)


−


∑


(


Y



)


2



)



















where:
















r


=


Correlation coefficient
















n


=


Number of observations







\begin{aligned}&r = \frac { n \times ( \sum (X, Y) - ( \sum (X) \times \sum (Y) ) ) }{ \sqrt { ( n \times \sum (X ^ 2) - \sum (X) ^ 2 ) \times ( n \times \sum( Y ^ 2 ) - \sum (Y) ^ 2 ) } } \\&\textbf{where:}\\&r=\text{Correlation coefficient}\\&n=\text{Number of observations}\end{aligned}


​r=(n×∑(X2)−∑(X)2)×(n×∑(Y2)−∑(Y)2)​n×(∑(X,Y)−(∑(X)×∑(Y)))​where:r=Correlation coefficientn=Number of observations​



In this example, the correlation would be:



r = (7 x 20,391 - (268 x 518) / SquareRoot((7 x 11,534 - 268^2) x (7 x 39,174 - 518^2)) = 3,913 / 7,248.4 = 0.54


   Correlation and Portfolio Diversification  

In investing, correlation is most important in relation to a diversified portfolio. Investors who wish to mitigate risk can do so by investing in non-correlated assets. For example, consider an investor who owns airline stock. If the airline industry is found to have a low correlation to the social media industry, the investor may choose to invest in a social media stock understanding that an negative impact to one industry may not impact the other.



This is often the approach when considering investing across asset classes. Stocks, bonds, precious metals, real estate, cryptocurrency, commodities, and other types of investments each have different relationships to each other. While some may be heavily correlated, others may act as a hedge to diversify risk if they are not correlated.






Risk that can be diversified away is called unsystematic risk. This type of risk is specific to a company, industry, or asset class. Investing in different assets can reduce your portfolio's correlation and reduce your exposure to unsystematic risk.


   Special Considerations  

Correlation is often dictated and related to other statistical considerations. It is common to see correlation cited when statistics is used to analyze variables.


  P-Value  

In statistics, a p-value is used to indicate whether the findings are statistically significant. It is possible to determine that two variables are correlated, but there may not be enough supporting evidence to state this as a strong claim. A high p-value indicates there is enough evidence to meaningfully conclude that the population correlation coefficient is different from zero.


  Scatterplots  

The easiest way to visualize whether two variables are correlated is to graphically depict them using a scatterplot. Each point on a scatterplot represents one sample item. The x-axis of the scatterplot represents one of the variables being tested, while the y-axis of the scatter plot represents the other.



The correlation coefficient of the two variables is depicted graphically often as a linear line mapped to show the relationship of the two variables. If the two variables are positively correlated, an increasing linear line may be drawn on the scatterplot. If two variables are negatively correlated, a decreasing linear line may be draw. The stronger the relationship of the data points, the closer each data point will be to this line.



Scatterplots may be more useful when analyzing more complex data that might have changing relationships. For example, two variables may be positively correlated to a certain point, then their relationship becomes negatively correlated. This non-linear relationship may be more difficult to identify using formulas but can be easier to spot when graphed on a scatterplot.



Last, scatterplots can easily depict correlation when they incorporate density shading. A density shade or density ellipse is a shaded area on a scatterplot that visually shows the densest region of data points on a scatterplot. The density ellipses will often mirror the direction of a linear correlation line if variables are related. Otherwise, density ellipses that are more circular with no defined direction indicate lower correlation.


  Causation  

Another inherent difficulty in statistics is determining whether relationships between two variables are caused by those variables. Consider the following statement:



"Most basketball players are tall. Therefore if you play basketball, you will become tall."



It's clear that the statement above is not true. Individuals who are tall and understand this advantage may gravitate to basketball because their natural physical abilities best suit them for the sport. However, because height and activity in basketball may be positively correlated, statisticians and data scientists must be aware that a strong relationship between two variables may or may be caused due to any one of the variables.


   Limitations of Correlation  

Like other aspects of statistical analysis, correlation can be misinterpreted. Small sample sizes may yield unreliable results, even if it appears as though correlation between two variables is strong. Alternatively, a small sample size may yield uncorrelated findings when the two variables are in fact linked.



Correlation is often skewed when an outlier is present. Correlation only shows how one variable is connected to another and may not clearly identify how a single instance or outcome can impact the correlation coefficient.



Correlation may also be misinterpreted if the relationship between two variables is nonlinear. It is much easier to identify two variables with a positive or negative correlation. However, two variables may still be correlated with a more complex relationship.




What Is Correlation?
Correlation is a statistical term describing the degree to which two variables move in coordination with one another. If the two variables move in the same direction, then those variables are said to have a positive correlation. If they move in opposite directions, then they have a negative correlation.




Why Are Correlations Important in Finance?
Correlations play an important role in finance because they are used to forecast future trends and to manage the risks within a portfolio. These days, the correlations between assets can be easily calculated using various software programs and online services. Correlations, along with other statistical concepts, play an important role in the creation and pricing of derivatives and other complex financial instruments.




What Is an Example of How Correlation Is Used?
Correlation is a widely-used concept in modern finance. For example, a trader might use historical correlations to predict whether a company’s shares will rise or fall in response to a change in interest rates or commodity prices. Similarly, a portfolio manager might aim to reduce their risk by ensuring that the individual assets within their portfolio are not overly correlated with one another.




Is High Correlation Better?
Investors may have a preference on the level of correlation within their portfolio. In general, most investors will prefer to have a lower correlation as this mitigates risk in their portfolios of different assets or securities being impacted by similar market conditions. However, risk-seeking investors or investors wanting to put their money into a very specific type of sector or company may be willing to have higher correlation within their portfolio in exchange for greater potential returns.
What Is the Correlation Coefficient?  

The correlation coefficient is a statistical measure of the strength of a linear relationship between two variables. Its values can range from -1 to 1. A correlation coefficient of -1 describes a perfect negative, or inverse, correlation, with values in one series rising as those in the other decline, and vice versa. A coefficient of 1 shows a perfect positive correlation, or a direct relationship. A correlation coefficient of 0 means there is no linear relationship.



Correlation coefficients are used in science and in finance to assess the degree of association between two variables, factors, or data sets. For example, since high oil prices are favorable for crude producers, one might assume the correlation between oil prices and forward returns on oil stocks is strongly positive. Calculating the correlation coefficient for these variables based on market data reveals a moderate and inconsistent correlation over lengthy periods.





Key Takeaways

Correlation coefficients are used to assess the strength of associations between data variables.The most common, called a Pearson correlation coefficient, measures the strength and the direction of a linear relationship between two variables.Values always range from -1 for a perfectly inverse, or negative, relationship to 1 for a perfectly positive correlation. Values at, or close to, zero indicate no linear relationship or a very weak correlation.The coefficient values required to signal a meaningful association depend on the application. The statistical significance of a correlation can be calculated from the correlation coefficient and the number of data points in the sample, assuming a normal population distribution.


   Understanding the Correlation Coefficient  

Different types of correlation coefficients are used to assess correlation based on the properties of the compared data. By far the most common is the Pearson coefficient, or Pearson's r, which measures the strength and direction of a linear relationship between two variables. The Pearson coefficient cannot assess nonlinear associations between variables and cannot differentiate between dependent and independent variables.



The Pearson coefficient uses a mathematical statistics formula to measure how closely the data points combining the two variables (with the values of one data series plotted on the x-axis and the corresponding values of the other series on the y-axis) approximate the line of best fit. The line of best fit can be determined through regression analysis.



The further the coefficient is from zero, whether it is positive or negative, the better the fit and the greater the correlation. The values of -1 (for a negative correlation) and 1 (for a positive one) describe perfect fits in which all data points align in a straight line, indicating that the variables are perfectly correlated. In other words, the relationship is so predictable that the value of one variable can be determined from the matched value of the other. The closer the correlation coefficient is to zero the weaker the correlation, until at zero no linear relationship exists at all.












Investopedia / Hugo Lin



Assessments of correlation strength based on the correlation coefficient value vary by application. In physics and chemistry, a correlation coefficient should be lower than -0.9 or higher than 0.9 for the correlation to be considered meaningful, while in social sciences the threshold could be as high as -0.5 and as low as 0.5.



For correlation coefficients derived from sampling, the determination of statistical significance depends on the p-value, which is calculated from the data sample's size as well as the value of the coefficient.


   Correlation Coefficient Equation  

To calculate the Pearson correlation, start by determining each variable's standard deviation as well as the covariance between them. The correlation coefficient is covariance divided by the product of the two variables' standard deviations.



















ρ



x


y




=




Cov


(


x


,


y


)





σ


x




σ


y



















where:

















ρ



x


y




=


Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient
















Cov


(


x


,


y


)


=


covariance of variables 


x


 and 


y

















σ


x



=


standard deviation of 


x

















σ


y



=


standard deviation of 


y







\begin{aligned} &\rho_{xy} = \frac { \text{Cov} ( x, y ) }{ \sigma_x \sigma_y } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &\rho_{xy} = \text{Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient} \\ &\text{Cov} ( x, y ) = \text{covariance of variables } x \text{ and } y \\ &\sigma_x = \text{standard deviation of } x \\ &\sigma_y = \text{standard deviation of } y \\ \end{aligned}


​ρxy​=σx​σy​Cov(x,y)​where:ρxy​=Pearson product-moment correlation coefficientCov(x,y)=covariance of variables x and yσx​=standard deviation of xσy​=standard deviation of y​



Standard deviation is a measure of the dispersion of data from its average. Covariance shows whether the two variables tend to move in the same direction, while the correlation coefficient measures the strength of that relationship on a normalized scale, from -1 to 1.



The formula above can be elaborated as


















r


=




n


×


(


∑


(


X


,


Y


)


−


(


∑


(


X


)


×


∑


(


Y


)


)


)





(


n


×


∑


(



X


2



)


−


∑


(


X



)


2



)


×


(


n


×


∑


(



Y


2



)


−


∑


(


Y



)


2



)



















where:
















r


=


Correlation coefficient
















n


=


Number of observations







\begin{aligned}&r = \frac { n \times ( \sum (X, Y) - ( \sum (X) \times \sum (Y) ) ) }{ \sqrt { ( n \times \sum (X ^ 2) - \sum (X) ^ 2 ) \times ( n \times \sum( Y ^ 2 ) - \sum (Y) ^ 2 ) } } \\&\textbf{where:}\\&r=\text{Correlation coefficient}\\&n=\text{Number of observations}\end{aligned}


​r=(n×∑(X2)−∑(X)2)×(n×∑(Y2)−∑(Y)2)​n×(∑(X,Y)−(∑(X)×∑(Y)))​where:r=Correlation coefficientn=Number of observations​​


   Correlation Statistics and Investing  

The correlation coefficient is particularly helpful in assessing and managing investment risks. For example, modern portfolio theory suggests diversification can reduce the volatility of a portfolio's returns, curbing risk. The correlation coefficient between historical returns can indicate whether adding an investment to a portfolio will improve its diversification.



Correlation calculations are also a staple of factor investing, a strategy for constructing a portfolio based on factors associated with excess returns. Meanwhile, quantitative traders use historical correlations and correlation coefficients to anticipate near-term changes in securities prices.


   Limitations of the Pearson Correlation Coefficient  

Correlation does not imply causation, as the saying goes, and the Pearson coefficient cannot determine whether one of the correlated variables is dependent on the other.



Nor does the correlation coefficient show what proportion of the variation in the dependent variable is attributable to the independent variable. That's shown by the coefficient of determination, also known as R-squared, which is simply the correlation coefficient squared.



The correlation coefficient does not describe the slope of the line of best fit; the slope can be determined with the least squares method in regression analysis.



The Pearson correlation coefficient can't be used to assess nonlinear associations or those arising from sampled data not subject to a normal distribution. It can also be distorted by outliers—data points far outside the scatterplot of a distribution. Those relationships can be analyzed using nonparametric methods, such as Spearman's correlation coefficient, the Kendall rank correlation coefficient, or a polychoric correlation coefficient.


   Finding Correlation Coefficients in Excel  

The simplest way to calculate correlation in Excel is to input two data series in adjacent columns and use the built-in correlation formula:












Investopedia.com



If you want to create a correlation matrix across a range of data sets, Excel has a Data Analysis plugin on the Data tab, under Analyze. 



Select the table of returns. In this case, our columns are titled, so we want to check the box "Labels in first row," so Excel knows to treat these as titles. Then you can choose to output on the same sheet or on a new sheet.












Investopedia.com



Hitting enter will produce the correlation matrix. You can add some text and conditional formatting to clean up the result.












Investopedia.com




What Is a Correlation Coefficient?
The correlation coefficient describes how one variable moves in relation to another. A positive correlation indicates that the two move in the same direction, with a value of 1 denoting a perfect positive correlation. A value of -1 shows a perfect negative, or inverse, correlation, while zero means no linear correlation exists.




How Do You Calculate the Correlation Coefficient?
The correlation coefficient is calculated by determining the covariance of the variables and dividing that number by the product of those variables’ standard deviations.




How Is the Correlation Coefficient Used in Investing?
Correlation coefficients play a key role in portfolio risk assessments and quantitative trading strategies. For example, some portfolio managers will monitor the correlation coefficients of their holdings to limit a portfolio's volatility and risk.
What Is a Correspondent Bank?  

A correspondent bank is a financial institution that provides services to another one—usually in another country. It acts as an intermediary or agent, facilitating wire transfers, conducting business transactions, accepting deposits, and gathering documents on behalf of another bank.



Correspondent banks are most likely to be used by domestic banks to execute transactions that either originate or are completed in other countries. Domestic banks generally use correspondent banks to gain access to foreign financial markets and to serve international clients without having to open branches abroad.





Key Takeaways

A correspondent bank is an authorized financial institution that provides services on behalf of another financial institution. Correspondent bank's services may include funds transfer, settlement, check clearing, and wire transfers.The accounts held between correspondent banks and the banks to which they are providing services are referred to as nostro and vostro accounts.Domestic banks can serve their international clients and gain access to foreign financial markets by using correspondent banks, rather than setting up branches overseas.


   How a Correspondent Bank Works  

Correspondent banks are third-party banks. They act as middlemen between different financial institutions. As such, they provide treasury services between sending and receiving banks, especially those in different countries. Services can include:



funds transfersettlementcheck clearingwire transferscurrency exchange



Correspondent banks may also act as agents to process local transactions for clients when they are traveling abroad. At the local level, correspondent banks may accept deposits, process documentation, and serve as funds transfer agents.



The accounts held between correspondent banks and the banks for which they provide services are referred to as nostro and vostro accounts. An account held by one bank for another is referred to by the holding bank as a nostro account, or our account on your books. The same account is referred to as a vostro account—your account but on our books—by the counterparty bank. Generally speaking, both banks in a correspondent relationship hold accounts for one another for the purpose of tracking debits and credits between the parties.






A correspondent bank must act as the middleman when sending and receiving banks don't have agreements in place for wire transfers.



Correspondent banks are a pivotal part of the financial industry, as they provide a way for domestic banks to operate when it isn't feasible for them to open branches in a different location—especially in another country.



For instance, a small domestic bank with clients in different countries can partner with a correspondent bank to meet the needs of its client internationally. Doing so also gives it access to the foreign financial market. The correspondent bank will, therefore, charge a fee for this service, which is usually passed off from the domestic bank to the customer.


   Special Considerations  

International wire transfers often occur between banks that don't have an established financial relationship. For example, a bank in San Francisco that receives instructions to wire funds to a bank in Japan can't wire funds directly without a working relationship with the receiving bank.



Most international wire transfers are executed through the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) network. Knowing there isn't a working relationship with the destination bank, the originating bank can search the SWIFT network for a correspondent bank that has arrangements with both banks.



Upon finding a correspondent bank having arrangements with both sides of the transfer, the originating bank sends the transferred funds to its nostro account held at the correspondent bank.



Using the example above, the correspondent bank deducts its transfer fee, usually between $0 and $50, and transfers the funds to the receiving bank in Japan. In transactions such as this, the correspondent bank adds value in two ways:



It alleviates the need for the domestic bank to establish a physical presence abroad.It saves the work of setting up direct arrangements with other financial institutions around the world.


  Risks of Correspondent Banking  

Correspondent banking poses some risk-management challenges because the correspondent bank relies on its customer, the respondent bank, to perform Know Your Client (KYC) due diligence on its customers.



Reliance on a third party’s compliance program—rather than conducting KYC on all customers for whom the respondent bank is processing payments through the correspondent bank—is why this activity is generally considered to be high-risk, from a money-laundering perspective.


   Correspondent Bank vs. Intermediary Bank  

Although there are some similarities between both correspondent and intermediary banks—namely that they act as third parties for other banks—there is a major difference between the two.



While correspondent banks normally handle transactions involving multiple currencies, an intermediary bank completes transactions involving only a single currency. They are especially key for domestic banks that may be too small in size to handle these types of transactions.




What Is a Correspondent Bank?
A correspondent bank is a third-party financial institution that acts as a go-between for domestic and foreign banks that need to conduct cross-border payments with each other.




What Is the Difference Between a Correspondent Bank and an Intermediary Bank?
Correspondent banks and intermediary banks both serve as third-party banks and are used by beneficiary banks, or receiving banks, to execute international fund transfers and transaction settlements. The main variance between correspondent banks and intermediary banks is often the number of currencies in use in a transaction, with correspondent banks handling more than one currency and intermediary banks generally working in one currency.




How Does a Correspondent Bank Add Value?
In transactions that require their use, the correspondent bank adds value in two ways. It alleviates the need for the domestic bank to establish a physical presence abroad and saves the work of setting up direct arrangements with other financial institutions around the world.


   The Bottom Line  

A correspondent bank is an authorized financial institution that provides third-party services on behalf of another financial institution that's usually in another country. Correspondent bank services may include funds transfer, settlement, check clearing, wire transfers, and more. Domestic banks can serve their international clients and gain access to foreign financial markets by using correspondent banks, rather than setting up their own branches overseas.
What Is Cost Accounting?  

Cost accounting is a form of managerial accounting that aims to capture a company's total cost of production by assessing the variable costs of each step of production as well as fixed costs, such as a lease expense.



Cost accounting is not GAAP-compliant, and can only be used for internal purposes.





Key Takeaways

Cost accounting is used internally by management in order to make fully informed business decisions.Unlike financial accounting, which provides information to external financial statement users, cost accounting is not required to adhere to set standards and can be flexible to meet the particular needs of management.As such, cost accounting cannot be used on official financial statements and is not GAAP-compliant.Cost accounting considers all input costs associated with production, including both variable and fixed costs.Types of cost accounting include standard costing, activity-based costing, lean accounting, and marginal costing.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Cost Accounting  

Cost accounting is used by a company's internal management team to identify all variable and fixed costs associated with the production process. It will first measure and record these costs individually, then compare input costs to output results to aid in measuring financial performance and making future business decisions. There are many types of costs involved in cost accounting, which are defined below.


  Types of Costs  

Fixed costs are costs that don't vary depending on the level of production. These are usually things like the mortgage or lease payment on a building or a piece of equipment that is depreciated at a fixed monthly rate. An increase or decrease in production levels would cause no change in these costs.
Variable costs are costs tied to a company's level of production. For example, a floral shop ramping up its floral arrangement inventory for Valentine's Day will incur higher costs when it purchases an increased number of flowers from the local nursery or garden center.
Operating costs are costs associated with the day-to-day operations of a business. These costs can be either fixed or variable depending on the unique situation.
Direct costs are costs specifically related to producing a product. If a coffee roaster spends five hours roasting coffee, the direct costs of the finished product include the labor hours of the roaster and the cost of the coffee beans.
Indirect costs are costs that cannot be directly linked to a product. In the coffee roaster example, the energy cost to heat the roaster would be indirect because it is inexact and difficult to trace to individual products.


   Cost Accounting vs. Financial Accounting  

While cost accounting is often used by management within a company to aid in decision-making, financial accounting is what outside investors or creditors typically see. Financial accounting presents a company's financial position and performance to external sources through financial statements, which include information about its revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. Cost accounting can be most beneficial as a tool for management in budgeting and in setting up cost-control programs, which can improve net margins for the company in the future.



One key difference between cost accounting and financial accounting is that, while in financial accounting the cost is classified depending on the type of transaction, cost accounting classifies costs according to the information needs of the management. Cost accounting, because it is used as an internal tool by management, does not have to meet any specific standard such as generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and, as a result, varies in use from company to company or department to department.






Cost-accounting methods are typically not useful for figuring out tax liabilities, which means that cost accounting cannot provide a complete analysis of a company's true costs. 


   Types of Cost Accounting  
  Standard Costing  

Standard costing assigns "standard" costs, rather than actual costs, to its cost of goods sold (COGS) and inventory. The standard costs are based on the efficient use of labor and materials to produce the good or service under standard operating conditions, and they are essentially the budgeted amount. Even though standard costs are assigned to the goods, the company still has to pay actual costs. Assessing the difference between the standard (efficient) cost and the actual cost incurred is called variance analysis.



If the variance analysis determines that actual costs are higher than expected, the variance is unfavorable. If it determines the actual costs are lower than expected, the variance is favorable. Two factors can contribute to a favorable or unfavorable variance. There is the cost of the input, such as the cost of labor and materials. This is considered to be a rate variance.



Additionally, there is the efficiency or quantity of the input used. This is considered to be a volume variance. If, for example, XYZ company expected to produce 400 widgets in a period but ended up producing 500 widgets, the cost of materials would be higher due to the total quantity produced.


  Activity-Based Costing  

Activity-based costing (ABC) identifies overhead costs from each department and assigns them to specific cost objects, such as goods or services. The ABC system of cost accounting is based on activities, which refer to any event, unit of work, or task with a specific goal, such as setting up machines for production, designing products, distributing finished goods, or operating machines. These activities are also considered to be cost drivers, and they are the measures used as the basis for allocating overhead costs.



Traditionally, overhead costs are assigned based on one generic measure, such as machine hours. Under ABC, an activity analysis is performed where appropriate measures are identified as the cost drivers. As a result, ABC tends to be much more accurate and helpful when it comes to managers reviewing the cost and profitability of their company's specific services or products.



For example, cost accountants using ABC might pass out a survey to production-line employees who will then account for the amount of time they spend on different tasks. The costs of these specific activities are only assigned to the goods or services that used the activity. This gives management a better idea of where exactly the time and money are being spent.



To illustrate this, assume a company produces both trinkets and widgets. The trinkets are very labor-intensive and require quite a bit of hands-on effort from the production staff. The production of widgets is automated, and it mostly consists of putting the raw material in a machine and waiting many hours for the finished good. It would not make sense to use machine hours to allocate overhead to both items because the trinkets hardly used any machine hours. Under ABC, the trinkets are assigned more overhead related to labor and the widgets are assigned more overhead related to machine use.


  Lean Accounting  

The main goal of lean accounting is to improve financial management practices within an organization. Lean accounting is an extension of the philosophy of lean manufacturing and production, which has the stated intention of minimizing waste while optimizing productivity. For example, if an accounting department is able to cut down on wasted time, employees can focus that saved time more productively on value-added tasks.



When using lean accounting, traditional costing methods are replaced by value-based pricing and lean-focused performance measurements. Financial decision-making is based on the impact on the company's total value stream profitability. Value streams are the profit centers of a company, which is any branch or division that directly adds to its bottom-line profitability.


  Marginal Costing  

Marginal costing (sometimes called cost-volume-profit analysis) is the impact on the cost of a product by adding one additional unit into production. It is useful for short-term economic decisions. Marginal costing can help management identify the impact of varying levels of costs and volume on operating profit. This type of analysis can be used by management to gain insight into potentially profitable new products, sales prices to establish for existing products, and the impact of marketing campaigns.



The break-even point—which is the production level where total revenue for a product equals total expense—is calculated as the total fixed costs of a company divided by its contribution margin. The contribution margin, calculated as the sales revenue minus variable costs, can also be calculated on a per-unit basis in order to determine the extent to which a specific product contributes to the overall profit of the company.


   History of Cost Accounting  

Scholars believe that cost accounting was first developed during the industrial revolution when the emerging economics of industrial supply and demand forced manufacturers to start tracking their fixed and variable expenses in order to optimize their production processes.



Cost accounting allowed railroad and steel companies to control costs and become more efficient. By the beginning of the 20th century, cost accounting had become a widely covered topic in the literature on business management.




How Does Cost Accounting Differ From Traditional Accounting Methods?
In contrast to general accounting or financial accounting, the cost-accounting method is an internally focused, firm-specific system used to implement cost controls. Cost accounting can be much more flexible and specific, particularly when it comes to the subdivision of costs and inventory valuation. Cost-accounting methods and techniques will vary from firm to firm and can become quite complex.




Why Is Cost Accounting Used?
Cost accounting is helpful because it can identify where a company is spending its money, how much it earns, and where money is being lost. Cost accounting aims to report, analyze, and lead to the improvement of internal cost controls and efficiency. Even though companies cannot use cost-accounting figures in their financial statements or for tax purposes, they are crucial for internal controls.




Which Types of Costs Go Into Cost Accounting?
These will vary from industry to industry and firm to firm, however certain cost categories will typically be included (some of which may overlap), such as direct costs, indirect costs, variable costs, fixed costs, and operating costs.




What Are Some Advantages of Cost Accounting?
Since cost-accounting methods are developed by and tailored to a specific firm, they are highly customizable and adaptable. Managers appreciate cost accounting because it can be adapted, tinkered with, and implemented according to the changing needs of the business. Unlike the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)-driven financial accounting, cost accounting need only concern itself with insider eyes and internal purposes. Management can analyze information based on criteria that it specifically values, which guides how prices are set, resources are distributed, capital is raised, and risks are assumed.




What Are Some Drawbacks of Cost Accounting?
Cost-accounting systems ,and the techniques that are used with them, can have a high start-up cost to develop and implement. Training accounting staff and managers on esoteric and often complex systems takes time and effort, and mistakes may be made early on. Higher-skilled accountants and auditors are likely to charge more for their services when evaluating a cost-accounting system than a standardized one like GAAP.


   The Bottom Line  

Cost accounting is an informal set of flexible tools that a company's managers can use to estimate how well the business is running. Cost accounting looks to assess the different costs of a business and how they impact operations, costs, efficiency, and profits. Individually assessing a company's cost structure allows management to improve the way it runs its business and therefore improve the value of the firm. These are meant to be internal metrics and figures only. Since they are not GAAP-compliant, cost accounting cannot be used for a company's audited financial statements released to the public.
What Is Cost and Freight (CFR)?  

Cost and freight (CFR) is a legal term used in foreign trade contracts. In a contract specifying that a sale is cost and freight, the seller is required to arrange for the carriage of goods by sea to a port of destination and provide the buyer with the documents necessary to obtain them from the carrier.



With a cost and freight sale, the seller is not responsible for procuring marine insurance against the risk of loss or damage to the cargo during transit. Cost and freight is a term used strictly for cargo transported by sea or inland waterways.



Cost and freight used to be abbreviated as C&F. Then, in 1990, it was changed to CFR by Incoterms, a set of commercial trade rules established by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), after users complained of difficulties adding the ampersand symbol in telex messages and other technology used in the 1970s and 1980s.





Key Takeaways

Cost and freight is a legal term specifying that sellers are required to transport goods by sea to a port of destination and provide the buyer with the documents necessary to pick up the goods at the destination.If a buyer and a seller agree to include cost and freight in their transaction, this provision means that the seller is not responsible for securing insurance for the cargo for loss or damage during transportation.Cost and freight is a commonly used International Commercial Term (Incoterm), a set of globally recognized terms that help to create a standard for foreign trade contracts and are published and regularly updated by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC).












Investopedia / Hilary Allison


   Understanding Cost and Freight (CFR)  

Contracts involving international transportation often contain abbreviated trade terms that describe matters such as the time and place of delivery; payment; the conditions under which the risk of loss shifts from the seller to the buyer; and specifying the party responsible for the costs of freight and insurance.



If a buyer and a seller agree to include cost and freight in their transaction, the seller must arrange and pay for transporting the cargo to a specified port. The seller must deliver the goods, clear them for export, and load them onto the transport ship. The risk of loss or damage transfers to the buyer once the seller loads the items onto the vessel, but before the main transportation occurs. This provision means that the seller is not responsible for securing insurance for the cargo for loss or damage during transportation.



Cost and freight is an International Commercial Term, also called an Incoterm. To facilitate foreign trade, the ICC publishes and regularly updates this set of globally recognized terms that help to create a standard for the terms of foreign trade contracts. Incoterms are intended to prevent confusion by clarifying the obligations of buyers and sellers, such as transport and export clearance obligations and the physical point where risk transfers from the seller to the buyer.






When an Incoterm such as cost and freight appears in a contract of sale, it creates a legal obligation, meaning that it must be respected.


   Similar Incoterms to Cost and Freight (CFR)  

For goods transported internationally by sea or inland waterways, there are three other Incoterms that are closely related to CFR and are frequently used in trade contracts.



Free alongside ship (FAS) means that the seller only has to deliver the cargo to the port next to the vessel, and responsibility for the goods shifts to the buyer at that point.
Free on board (FOB) requires the seller to also load the goods onto the ship.
Like CFR, cost insurance and freight (CIF) requires that the seller arranges for the carriage of goods by sea to a port of destination, but the seller has the additional obligation of insuring the goods until they reach the destination port. In CFR, the seller is not responsible for insuring the goods until they reach the destination port.




What does cost and freight (CFR) entail?
Cost and freight (CFR) is an expense associated with cargo transported by sea or inland waterways. If CFR is included in a transaction, the seller must arrange and pay for transporting the cargo to a specified port. The seller is also responsible for delivering the goods, clearing them for export, and loading them onto the transport ship. However, once the shipment is loaded into the vessel, the risk of loss or damage falls to the buyer. This means that the seller is not responsible for insuring the cargo during transportation.




What is an Incoterm?
“Incoterm” is short for International Commercial Term, a set of terms and definitions published by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). These terms are standardized to prevent confusion and clarify the obligations of buyers and sellers, such as transport and export clearance obligations.




What’s the difference between CIF and CFR?
Cost and freight (CFR) and cost insurance and freight (CIF) are similar. They both relate to transporting goods by sea and divide the responsibilities of transit between the buyer and the seller. Where they differ is that CIF requires marine insurance to be included, at the expense of the seller. With CFR, the seller is not responsible for insuring the goods until they reach the destination port.


   The Bottom Line  

Cost and freight (CFR), an Incoterms rule that’s applicable only to cargo transported by sea or inland waterways, puts a fair bit of responsibility on the shoulders of both the buyer and the seller. Under these agreements, which are fairly common in international trade, the seller is responsible for all the planning and costs associated with exporting goods by sea to the destination port specified by the recipient. However, as soon as the goods are loaded on the vessel, the buyer is responsible for providing marine insurance on them—and for transporting the goods via truck to their final destination, import fees, and so on.
What Is Cost Basis?  

Cost basis is the original value of an asset for tax purposes, usually, the purchase price, adjusted for stock splits, dividends, and return of capital distributions. This value is used to determine the capital gain, which is equal to the difference between the asset's cost basis and the current market value. The term can also be used to describe the difference between the cash price and the futures price of a given commodity.





Key Takeaways

Cost basis is the original price that an asset was acquired for, for tax purposes.Capital gains are computed by calculating the difference from the sale price to the cost basis.Several accounting methods exist to adjust the cost basis so that it is more favorable, but be careful to follow IRS guidelines.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding Cost Basis  

At the most basic level, the cost basis of an investment is the total amount originally invested, plus any commissions or fees involved in the purchase. This can either be described in terms of the dollar amount of the investment, or the effective per share price paid for the investment.



Using the correct cost basis, also referred to as the tax basis, is important especially if you reinvested dividends and capital gains distributions instead of taking the earnings in cash. Reinvesting distributions increases the tax basis of your investment, which you must account for to report a lower capital gain and therefore pay less tax.



If you don't use the higher tax basis, you could end up paying taxes twice on the reinvested distributions. Determining the correct cost basis is also the first step when calculating gains and losses after a stock is sold.






Reinvesting dividends increases the cost basis of a stock because dividends are used to buy more shares.



The average cost basis method is commonly used by investors for mutual fund tax reporting. A cost basis method is reported with the brokerage firm where your assets are held. Many brokerage firms default to the average cost basis method. Investors can also choose from other methods including: first in first out (FIFO), last in first out (LIFO), high cost, low cost, and more.



Once a cost-basis method is determined for a specific mutual fund it must remain in effect. Brokerage firms will provide investors with appropriate annual tax documentation on mutual fund sales based on their cost-basis method elections.



The concept of cost basis is basically straightforward, but it can become complicated in many ways. Tracking cost basis is required for tax purposes but also is needed to help track and determine investment success. The key is to keep good records and simplify the investment strategy where possible.






   Example of Cost Basis  

For example, if 100 shares of a stock were purchased for $1,000 last year, with the first year of dividends amounting to $100 and second year dividends amounting to $200, all of which were reinvested, applicable tax law considers these reinvested earnings to be income.



For tax calculation purposes, the adjusted cost basis when the stock is sold will be recorded at $1,300 instead of the original purchase price of $1,000. Thus, if the sale price is $1,500, the taxable gain would only be $200 ($1,500 - $1,300) instead of $500 ($1,500 - $1,000). If the cost basis is incorrectly recorded as $1,000, this results in a higher tax liability than would normally be due.


   Cost Basis Comparisons  

Cost basis comparison can be an important consideration. Assume that an investor made the following consecutive fund purchases in a taxable account: 1,500 shares at $20, 1,000 shares at $10, and 1,250 shares at $8. The investor’s average cost basis is calculated by dividing $50,000/3,750 shares. The average cost is $13.33.



Suppose the investor then sells 1,000 shares of the fund at $19. The investor would have a capital gain of $5,670 using the average cost basis method.



Gain/loss using average cost basis: ($19 - $13.33) x 1,000 shares = $5,670



Results can vary significantly by cost basis.



First in first out: ($19 - $20) x 1,000 shares = - $1,000Last in first out: ($19 - $8) x 1,000 = $11,000High cost: ($19 - $20) x 1,000 shares = - $1,000Low cost: ($19 - $8) x 1,000 = $11,000



In this case, the investor would be better off if they had selected the FIFO method or the high-cost method to determine the cost basis prior to selling the shares. These methods would result in no tax on a loss of $1,000. With the average cost basis method, the investor must pay a capital gains tax on the gain of $5,670.


   How Stock Splits Affect Cost Basis  

If the company splits its shares, this will affect your cost basis per share, but not the actual value of the original investment or the current investment. Continuing with the above example, suppose the company issues a 2:1 stock split where one old share gets you two new shares. You can calculate your cost basis per share in two ways:



Take the original investment amount ($10,000) and divide it by the new number of shares you hold (2,000 shares) to arrive at the new per-share cost basis ($10,000/2,000=$5.00).Take your previous cost basis per share ($10) and divide it by the split factor of 2:1 ($10.00/2 =$5.00).


   Cost Basis of Gifted or Inherited Shares  

In the event the shares were given to you as a gift, your cost basis is the cost basis of the original holder who gave you the gift. If the shares are trading at a lower price than when the shares were gifted, the lower rate is the cost basis.



If the shares were given to you as an inheritance, the cost basis of the shares for you as the inheritor is the current market price of the shares on the date of the original owner's death.



There are many factors that will affect your cost basis and eventually your taxes when you decide to sell. If your true cost basis is unclear, please consult a financial advisor, accountant, or tax lawyer.


   Cost Basis and Futures Contracts  

In regards to futures, the cost basis is the difference between a commodity’s local spot price and its associated futures price. For example, if a particular corn futures contract happens to be trading at $3.50, while the current market price of the commodity today is $3.10, there is a 40-cent cost basis.



If the reverse were true, with the future contract trading at $3.10 and the spot price being $3.50, the cost basis would be negative 40 cents, as a cost basis can be positive or negative depending on the prices involved.



The local spot price represents the prevailing price for the underlying asset, while the price listed in a futures contract refers to a rate that would be given at a specified point in the future. Futures prices vary from contract to contract depending on the month when they are set to expire.



As with other investment mechanisms, the spot price fluctuates depending on current local market conditions. As the delivery date approaches, the price of futures and the spot price shift closer together.




What Is the Difference Between Cost Basis and Tax Basis?
Cost basis is the original cost of obtaining an asset. It can include the purchase price and any fees. During the time an asset is held, its value can change, due to changes in market value, as well as any depreciation. The tax basis is the adjusted cost basis of the asset at the time the asset is sold. Capital gains tax will be charged on the difference between the sale price and the cost basis.




What Is the Importance of Cost Basis?
Cost basis is important because it is how capital gains taxes are charged. If you sell an asset for more than the cost basis, you will incur taxes on the profit. If you sell an asset for less than the cost basis, you will incur a loss and not incur any taxes. This loss can also be used to offset taxes on other capital gains.




How Does the IRS Verify Cost Basis in Real Estate?
In real estate transactions, the IRS can verify the cost basis by looking at the closing statement of when the property was purchased, or any other legal documents associated with the property, such as tax statements.


   The Bottom Line  

The cost basis, usually the purchase price of an asset, is used to determine how much an investor will pay in capital gains. The larger the difference between the cost basis and the sale price (if the asset has appreciated), the larger the tax bill will be, monetarily.



If there are a lot of aspects to the cost basis, such as fees, if the cost basis is adjusted due to dividends or stock splits, or if distributions are reinvested, determining the capital gain can be complicated. It can be helpful to use a tax advisor in these scenarios.
What Is a Cost-Benefit Analysis?  

A cost-benefit analysis is a systematic process that businesses use to analyze which decisions to make and which to forgo. The cost-benefit analyst sums the potential rewards expected from a situation or action and then subtracts the total costs associated with taking that action. Some consultants or analysts also build models to assign a dollar value on intangible items, such as the benefits and costs associated with living in a certain town.





Key Takeaways

A cost-benefit analysis is the process used to measure the benefits of a decision or taking action minus the costs associated with taking that action.A cost-benefit analysis involves measurable financial metrics such as revenue earned or costs saved as a result of the decision to pursue a project.A cost-benefit analysis can also include intangible benefits and costs or effects from a decision such as employees morale and customer satisfaction.More complex cost-benefit analysis may incorporate sensitivity analysis, discounting of cashflows, and what-if scenario analysis for multiple options.All else being equal, an analysis that results in more benefits than costs will generally be a favorable project for the company to undertake. 












Michela Buttignol / Investopedia


   Understanding Cost-Benefit Analysis  

Before building a new plant or taking on a new project, prudent managers conduct a cost-benefit analysis to evaluate all the potential costs and revenues that a company might generate from the project. The outcome of the analysis will determine whether the project is financially feasible or if the company should pursue another project.



In many models, a cost-benefit analysis will also factor the opportunity cost into the decision-making process. Opportunity costs are alternative benefits that could have been realized when choosing one alternative over another. In other words, the opportunity cost is the forgone or missed opportunity as a result of a choice or decision.



Factoring in opportunity costs allows project managers to weigh the benefits from alternative courses of action and not merely the current path or choice being considered in the cost-benefit analysis. By considering all options and the potential missed opportunities, the cost-benefit analysis is more thorough and allows for better decision-making.



Finally, the results of the aggregate costs and benefits should be compared quantitatively to determine if the benefits outweigh the costs. If so, then the rational decision is to go forward with the project. If not, the business should review the project to see if it can make adjustments to either increase benefits or decrease costs to make the project viable. Otherwise, the company should likely avoid the project.






With cost-benefit analysis, there are a number of forecasts built into the process, and if any of the forecasts are inaccurate, the results may be called into question.


   The Cost-Benefit Analysis Process  

There is no single universally accepted method of performing a cost-benefit analysis. However, every process usually has some variation of the following five steps.


  Identify Project Scope  

The first step of a cost-benefit analysis is to understand your situation, identify your goals, and create a framework to mold your scope. The project scope is kicked off by identifying the purpose of the cost-benefit analysis. An example of a cost-benefit analysis purpose could be "to determine whether to expand to increase market share" or "to decide whether to renovate a company's website".



This initial stage is where the project planning takes place, including the timeline, resources needed, constraints, personnel required, or evaluation techniques. It is at this point that a company should assess whether it is equipped to perform the analysis. For example, a company may realize it does not have the technical staff required to perform an adequate analysis.



During the project scope development phase, key stakeholders should be identified, notified, and given a chance to provide their input along the process. It may be wise to include those most impacted by the outcome of the analysis depending on the findings (i.e. if the outcome is to renovate a company's website, IT may be required to hire multiple additional staff and should be consulted).


  Determine the Costs  

With the framework behind us, it's time to start looking at numbers. The second step of a cost-benefit analysis is to determine the project costs. Costs may include the following.



Direct costs would be direct labor involved in manufacturing, inventory, raw materials, manufacturing expenses.
Indirect costs might include electricity, overhead costs from management, rent, utilities.
Intangible costs of a decision, such as the impact on customers, employees, or delivery times.
Opportunity costs such as alternative investments, or buying a plant versus building one.
Cost of potential risks such as regulatory risks, competition, and environmental impacts.



When determining costs, it's important to consider whether the expenses are reoccurring or a one-time cost. It's also important to evaluate whether costs are variable or fixed; if they are fixed, consider what step costs and relevant range will impact those costs.






"Costs" can be financial (i.e. expenses recorded on an income statement) or non-financial (i.e. negative repercussions on the community).


  Determine the Benefits  

Every project will have different underlying principles; benefits might include the following:



Higher revenue and sales from increased production or new product.
Intangible benefits, such as improved employee safety and morale, as well as customer satisfaction due to enhanced product offerings or faster delivery.
Competitive advantage or market share gained as a result of the decision.



An analyst or project manager should apply a monetary measurement to all of the items on the cost-benefit list, taking special care not to underestimate costs or overestimate benefits. A conservative approach with a conscious effort to avoid any subjective tendencies when calculating estimates is best suited when assigning a value to both costs and benefits for a cost-benefit analysis.



Analysts should also be aware of the challenges in determining both explicit and implicit benefits. Explicit benefits require future assumptions about market conditions, sales quantities, customer demands, and product expectations. Implicit costs, on the other hand, may be difficult to calculate as there may be no simple formula. For example, consider the example above about increasing employee satisfaction; there is no formula to calculate the financial impact of happier workers.


  Compute Analysis Calculations  

With the cost and benefit figures in hand, it's time to perform the analysis. Depending on the timeframe of the project, this may be as simple as subtracting one from another; if the benefits are higher than the cost, the project has a net benefit to the company.



Some cost-benefit analysis require more in-depth critiquing. This may include:



Applying discount rates to determine the net present value of cashflows.
Utilizing various discount rates depending on various situations.
Calculating cost-benefit analysis for multiple options. Each option may have a different cost and different benefit.
Level-setting different options by calculating the cost-benefit ratio.
Performing sensitivity analysis to understand how slight changes in estimates may impact outcomes.


  Make Recommendation and Implement  

The analyst that performs the cost-benefit analysis must often then synthesize findings to present to management. This includes concisely summarizes the costs, benefits, net impact, and how the finding ultimately support the original purpose of the analysis.



Broadly speaking, if a cost-benefit analysis is positive, the project has more benefits than costs. A company must be mindful of limited resources that might result in mutually-exclusive decisions. For example, a company may have a limited amount of capital to invest; although a cost-benefit analysis of an upgrade to its warehouse, website, and equipment are all positive, the company may not have enough money for all three.






Not all cost-benefit analysis that result in net benefit should be accepted. For example, a company must consider the project's risk, coherence to its company imagine, or capital limitations,


   Advantages of Cost-Benefit Analysis  

There's plenty of reasons to perform cost-benefit analysis. The technique relies on data-driven decision-making; any outcome that is recommended relies on quantifiable information that has been gathered specific to a single problem.



A cost-benefit analysis requires substantial research across all types of costs. This means considering unpredictable costs and understanding expense types and characteristics. This level of analysis only strengthens the findings as more research is performed on the state of outcome for the project that provides better support for strategic planning endeavors.



A cost-benefit analysis also requires quantifying non-financial metrics (i.e. what is the financial benefit of increased employee satisfaction?). Although this may be difficult to assess, it forces the analyst to consider aspects of the project that are more difficult to measure. The ultimate result of a cost-benefit analysis is to deliver a simple report that makes it easier to make decisions.


   Limitations of the Cost-Benefit Analysis  

For projects that involve small- to mid-level capital expenditures and are short to intermediate in terms of time to completion, an in-depth cost-benefit analysis may be sufficient enough to make a well-informed, rational decision. For very large projects with a long-term time horizon, a cost-benefit analysis might fail to account for important financial concerns such as inflation, interest rates, varying cash flows, and the present value of money.



One of the benefits of using the net present value for deciding on a project is that it uses an alternative rate of return that could be earned if the project had never been done. That return is discounted from the results. In other words, the project needs to earn at least more than the rate of return that could be earned elsewhere or the discount rate.



However, with any type of model used in performing a cost-benefit analysis, there are a significant amount of forecasts built into the models. The forecasts used in any cost-benefit analysis might include future revenue or sales, alternative rates of return, expected costs, and expected future cash flows. If one or two of the forecasts are off, the cost-benefit analysis results would likely be thrown into question, thus highlighting the limitations in performing a cost-benefit analysis.




Cost-Benefit Analysis

Pros

Requires data-driven analysis
Limits analysis to only the purpose determined in the initial step of the process
Results in deeper, potentially more reliable findings
Delivers insights to financial and non-financial outcomes



Cons

May be unnecessary for smaller projects
Requires capital and resources to gather data and make analysis
Relies heavily on forecasted figures; if any single critical forecast is off, estimated findings will likely be wrong.







What Are the 5 Steps of Cost-Benefit Analysis?
The broad process for a cost-benefit analysis is to set the analysis plan, determine your costs, determine your benefits, perform analysis of both costs and benefits, and to make a final recommendation. These steps may vary from one process to another.




What Is the Main Goal of Using a Cost-Benefit Analysis?
The main goal of cost-benefit analysis is to determine whether it is worth undertaking a project or task. This decision is made by gathering information on the costs and benefits of that project. Management leverages the findings of a cost-benefit analysis to support whether there are more benefits to a project or if it is more detrimental to a company.




How Do You Weigh Costs vs. Benefits?
Cost-benefit analysis is a systematic method for quantifying and then comparing the total costs to the total expected rewards of undertaking a project or making an investment. If the benefits greatly outweigh the costs, the decision should go ahead; otherwise, it should probably not. Cost-benefit analysis will also include the opportunity costs of missed or skipped projects.




What Are Some Tools or Methods Used in Cost-Benefit Analysis?
Depending on the specific investment or project being evaluated, one may need to discount the time value of cash flows using net present value calculations. A benefit-cost ratio (BCR) may also be computed to summarize the overall relationship between the relative costs and benefits of a proposed project. Other tools may include regression modeling, valuation, and forecasting techniques.




What Are the Costs and Benefits of Doing a Cost-Benefit Analysis?
The process of doing a cost-benefit analysis itself has its own inherent costs and benefits. The costs involve the time needed to carefully understand and estimate all of the potential rewards and costs. This may also involve money paid to an analyst or consultant to carry out the work. One other potential downside is that various estimates and forecasts are required to build the cost-benefit analysis, and these assumptions may prove to be wrong or even biased.The benefits of a cost-benefit analysis, if done correctly and with accurate assumptions, are to provide a good guide for decision-making that can be standardized and quantified. If the cost-benefit analysis of doing a cost-benefit analysis is positive, you should do it!


   The Bottom Line  

Some complex problems require deeper analysis, and a company can use cost-benefit analysis when it isn't abundantly clear whether or not to pursue an undertaking. By determining the expenses and identifying what will be favorable, a company can simplify the decision-making process by synthesizing a cost-benefit analysis.
What Is Cost of Capital?  

Cost of capital is a company's calculation of the minimum return that would be necessary in order to justify undertaking a capital budgeting project, such as building a new factory.



The term cost of capital is used by analysts and investors, but it is always an evaluation of whether a projected decision can be justified by its cost. Investors may also use the term to refer to an evaluation of an investment's potential return in relation to its cost and its risks.



Many companies use a combination of debt and equity to finance business expansion. For such companies, the overall cost of capital is derived from the weighted average cost of all capital sources. This is known as the weighted average cost of capital (WACC).





Key Takeaways

Cost of capital represents the return a company needs to achieve in order to justify the cost of a capital project, such as purchasing new equipment or constructing a new building.Cost of capital encompasses the cost of both equity and debt, weighted according to the company's preferred or existing capital structure. This is known as the weighted average cost of capital (WACC).A company's investment decisions for new projects should always generate a return that exceeds the firm's cost of the capital used to finance the project. Otherwise, the project will not generate a return for investors.












Investopedia / Yurle Villegas


   Understanding Cost of Capital  

The concept of the cost of capital is key information used to determine a project's hurdle rate. A company embarking on a major project must know how much money the project will have to generate in order to offset the cost of undertaking it and then continue to generate profits for the company.



Cost of capital, from the perspective of an investor, is an assessment of the return that can be expected from the acquisition of stock shares or any other investment. This is an estimate and might include best- and worst-case scenarios. An investor might look at the volatility (beta) of a company's financial results to determine whether a stock's cost is justified by its potential return.


   Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC)  

A firm's cost of capital is typically calculated using the weighted average cost of capital formula that considers the cost of both debt and equity capital.



Each category of the firm's capital is weighted proportionately to arrive at a blended rate, and the formula considers every type of debt and equity on the company's balance sheet, including common and preferred stock, bonds, and other forms of debt.


  Finding the Cost of Debt  

The cost of capital becomes a factor in deciding which financing track to follow: debt, equity, or a combination of the two.



Early-stage companies rarely have sizable assets to pledge as collateral for loans, so equity financing becomes the default mode of funding. Less-established companies with limited operating histories will pay a higher cost for capital than older companies with solid track records since lenders and investors will demand a higher risk premium for the former.



The cost of debt is merely the interest rate paid by the company on its debt. However, since interest expense is tax-deductible, the debt is calculated on an after-tax basis as follows:


















Cost of debt


=



Interest expense


Total debt



×


(


1


−


T


)
















where:
















Interest expense


=


Int. paid on the firm’s current debt
















T


=


The company’s marginal tax rate







\begin{aligned} &\text{Cost of debt}=\frac{\text{Interest expense}}{\text{Total debt}} \times (1 - T) \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{Interest expense}=\text{Int. paid on the firm's current debt}\\ &T=\text{The company’s marginal tax rate}\\ \end{aligned}


​Cost of debt=Total debtInterest expense​×(1−T)where:Interest expense=Int. paid on the firm’s current debtT=The company’s marginal tax rate​



The cost of debt can also be estimated by adding a credit spread to the risk-free rate and multiplying the result by (1 - T).


  Finding the Cost of Equity  

The cost of equity is more complicated since the rate of return demanded by equity investors is not as clearly defined as it is by lenders. The cost of equity is approximated by the capital asset pricing model as follows:


















C


A


P


M


(


Cost of equity


)


=



R


f



+


β


(



R


m



−



R


f



)
















where:

















R


f



=


risk-free rate of return

















R


m



=


market rate of return







\begin{aligned} &CAPM(\text{Cost of equity})= R_f + \beta(R_m - R_f) \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &R_f=\text{risk-free rate of return}\\ &R_m=\text{market rate of return}\\ \end{aligned}


​CAPM(Cost of equity)=Rf​+β(Rm​−Rf​)where:Rf​=risk-free rate of returnRm​=market rate of return​



Beta is used in the CAPM formula to estimate risk, and the formula would require a public company's own stock beta. For private companies, a beta is estimated based on the average beta among a group of similar public companies. Analysts may refine this beta by calculating it on an after-tax basis. The assumption is that a private firm's beta will become the same as the industry average beta.



The firm’s overall cost of capital is based on the weighted average of these costs.



For example, consider an enterprise with a capital structure consisting of 70% equity and 30% debt; its cost of equity is 10% and the after-tax cost of debt is 7%.



Therefore, its WACC would be:








(


0.7


×


10


%


)


+


(


0.3


×


7


%


)


=


9.1


%



(0.7 \times 10\%) + (0.3 \times 7\%) = 9.1\%


(0.7×10%)+(0.3×7%)=9.1%



This is the cost of capital that would be used to discount future cash flows from potential projects and other opportunities to estimate their net present value (NPV) and ability to generate value.



Companies strive to attain the optimal financing mix based on the cost of capital for various funding sources. Debt financing is more tax-efficient than equity financing since interest expenses are tax-deductible and dividends on common shares are paid with after-tax dollars. However, too much debt can result in dangerously high leverage levels, forcing the company to pay higher interest rates to offset the higher default risk


   Cost of Capital vs. Discount Rate   

The cost of capital and discount rate are somewhat similar and the terms are often used interchangeably. Cost of capital is often calculated by a company's finance department and used by management to set a discount rate (or hurdle rate) that must be beaten to justify an investment.



That said, a company's management should challenge its internally generated cost of capital numbers, as they may be so conservative as to deter investment.



Cost of capital may also differ based on the type of project or initiative; a highly innovative but risky initiative should carry a higher cost of capital than a project to update essential equipment or software with proven performance.


   Importance of Cost of Capital  

Businesses and financial analysts use the cost of capital to determine if funds are being invested effectively. If the return on an investment is greater than the cost of capital, that investment will end up being a net benefit to the company's balance sheets. Conversely, an investment whose returns are equal to or lower than the cost of capital indicate that the money is not being spent wisely.



The cost of capital can also determine a company's valuation. Since a company with a high cost of capital can expect lower proceeds in the long run, investors are likely to see less value in owning a share of that company's equity.


   Real-World Examples  

Every industry has its own prevailing average cost of capital.



The numbers vary widely. Homebuilding has a relatively high cost of capital, at 6.35, according to a compilation from New York University's Stern School of Business. The retail grocery business is relatively low, at 1.98%.



The cost of capital is also high among both biotech and pharmaceutical drug companies, steel manufacturers, internet software companies, and integrated oil and gas companies. Those industries tend to require significant capital investment in research, development, equipment, and factories.



Among the industries with lower capital costs are money center banks, power companies, real estate investment trusts (REITs), and utilities (both general and water). Such companies may require less equipment or may benefit from very steady cash flows.




Why Is Cost of Capital Important?
Most businesses strive to grow and expand. There may be many options: expand a factory, buy out a rival, build a new, bigger factory. Before the company decides on any of these options, it determines the cost of capital for each proposed project. This indicates how long it will take for the project to repay what it cost, and how much it will return in the future. Such projections are always estimates, of course. But the company must follow a reasonable methodology to choose between its options.




What Is the Difference Between the Cost of Capital and the Discount Rate?
The two terms are often used interchangeably, but there is a difference. In business, cost of capital is generally determined by the accounting department. It is a relatively straightforward calculation of the breakeven point for the project. The management team uses that calculation to determine the discount rate, or hurdle rate, of the project. That is, they decide whether the project can deliver enough of a return to not only repay its costs but reward the company's shareholders.




How Do You Calculate the Weighted Average Cost of Capital?
The weighted average cost of capital represents the average cost of the company's capital, weighted according to the type of capital and its share on the company balance sheet. This is determined by multiplying the cost of each type of capital by the percentage of that type of capital on the company's balance sheet and adding the products together.


   The Bottom Line  

The cost of capital measures the cost that a business incurs to finance its operations. It measures the cost of borrowing money from creditors, or raising it from investors through equity financing, compared to the expected returns on an investment. This metric is important in determining if capital is being deployed effectively.
What Is Cost Control?  

Cost control is the practice of identifying and reducing business expenses to increase profits, and it starts with the budgeting process. A business owner compares the company's actual financial results with the budgeted expectations, and if actual costs are higher than planned, management has the information it needs to take action.



As an example, a company can obtain bids from different vendors that provide the same product or service, which can lower costs. Cost control is an important factor in maintaining and growing profitability.



Corporate payroll, for example, is often outsourced, because payroll tax laws change constantly, and employee turnover requires frequent changes to payroll records. A payroll company can calculate the net pay and tax withholdings for each worker, which saves the employer time and expense.





Key Takeaways

Cost control is the practice of identifying and reducing business expenses to increase profits, and it starts with the budgeting process.Cost control is an important factor in maintaining and growing profitability.Outsourcing is a common method to control costs because many businesses find it cheaper to pay a third party to perform a task than to take on the work within the company.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Cost Controls  

Controlling costs is one way to plan for a target net income, which is computed using the following formula:



Sales - fixed costs - variable costs = target net income



Assume, for example, that a retail clothing shop wants to earn $10,000 in net income from $100,000 in sales for the month. To reach the goal, management reviews both fixed and variable costs and attempts to reduce the expenses. Inventory is a variable cost that can be reduced by finding other suppliers that may offer more competitive prices.



It may take longer to reduce fixed costs, such as a lease payment, because these costs are usually fixed in a contract. Reaching a target net income is particularly important for a public company, since investors purchase the issuer’s common stock based on the expectation of earnings growth over time.






Outsourcing is used frequently to control costs because many businesses find it cheaper to pay a third party to perform a task than to take on the work within the company.


   Cost Control and Variance Analysis at Work  

A variance is defined as the difference between budgeted and actual results. Managers use variance analysis as a tool to identify critical areas that may need change. Every month, a company should perform variance analysis on each revenue and expense account. Management can address the largest dollar amount variances first, since those accounts are most likely to have the biggest impact on company results.



If, for example, a toy manufacturer has a $50,000 unfavorable variance in the material expense account, the firm should consider obtaining bids from other material suppliers to lower costs and eliminate the variance moving forward. Some businesses analyze variances and take action on the actual costs that have the largest percentage difference from budgeted costs.




Why Is Cost Control Important for Businesses?
In a competitive marketplace, the low-cost producers are the ones that can earn the highest profits. Reducing costs is therefore a key objective for most businesses since it increases both efficiency and profitability.




What Types of Costs do Businesses Incur?
In general, business costs can be categorized as fixed vs. variable and direct vs. indirect.Fixed costs are those that do not change, such as rent or insurance payments.Variable costs will change with productivity such as wage labor or energy usage.Direct costs are those involved with production or operations, such as costs of raw materials.Indirect costs include things like overhead, which are not directly related to the business's core operations.




How Can Households Implement Cost Controls?
Cost controls are often associated with increasing the operating efficiency of a business; however, individuals and households can also benefit from such strategies to increase savings and cash flows. Establishing and sticking to a budget is one key strategy. Shopping around and comparing competitors' prices is another way to keep prices down. Look to shop when items are on sale and consider second-hand goods if possible.
What Is the Cost of Debt?  

The cost of debt is the total interest expense owed on a debt. Put simply, the cost of debt is the effective interest rate or the total amount of interest that a company or individual owes on any liabilities, such as bonds and loans. This expense can refer to either the before-tax or after-tax cost of debt. The degree of the cost of debt depends entirely on the borrower's creditworthiness, so higher costs mean the borrower is considered risky.





Key Takeaways

The cost of debt is the effective rate that a company pays on its debt, such as bonds and loans. The key difference between the pretax cost of debt and the after-tax cost of debt is the fact that interest expense is tax-deductible.Debt is one part of a company’s capital structure, with the other being equity. Calculating the cost of debt involves finding the average interest paid on all of a company’s debts. 












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   How the Cost of Debt Works  

Debt is any money owed by one entity to another. Having debt is unavoidable for many entities and is rather common. In fact, companies and individuals may use debt to make large purchases or investments for further growth.



For corporations. debt is one part of their capital structures, which also includes equity. Capital structure deals with how a firm finances its overall operations and growth through different sources of funds, which may include debt such as bonds or loans.



The cost of debt measure is helpful in understanding the overall rate being paid by a company to use these types of debt financing. The measure can also give investors an idea of the company’s risk level compared to others because riskier companies generally have a higher cost of debt.






The cost of debt is generally lower than cost of equity.


   Formula and Calculation of Cost of Debt  

There are a couple of different ways to calculate a company’s cost of debt, depending on the information available.


  After-Tax Cost of Debt  

One way to calculate the cost of debt is by using the formula for the after-tax cost of debt:



After-Tax Cost of Debt = (Risk-Free Rate of Return + Credit Spread) x (1 - Tax Rate)



The risk-free rate of return is the theoretical rate of return of an investment with zero risk, most commonly associated with U.S. Treasury bonds. A credit spread is a difference in yield between a U.S. Treasury bond and another debt security of the same maturity but different credit quality.



This formula is useful because it takes into account fluctuations in the economy, as well as company-specific debt usage and credit rating. If the company has more debt or a low credit rating, then its credit spread will be higher.



For example, say the risk-free rate of return is 1.5% and the company’s credit spread is 3%. Its pretax cost of debt is 4.5%. If its tax rate is 30%, then the after-tax cost of debt is 3.15%. We can calculate this in the following way:



[(0.015 + 0.03) × (1 - 0.3)]


  Before-Tax Cost of Debt  

Another way to calculate the cost of debt is to determine the total amount of interest paid on each debt for the year. The interest rate that a company pays on its debts includes both the risk-free rate of return and the credit spread from the formula above because the lender(s) will take both into account when initially determining an interest rate.



Once the company has its total interest paid for the year, it divides this number by the total of all of its debt. This is the company’s average interest rate on all of its debt.



For example, say a company has a $1 million loan with a 5% interest rate and a $200,000 loan with a 6% rate. The average interest rate and its pretax cost of debt is 5.17%. This is calculated as follows:



[($1 million × 0.05) + ($200,000 × 0.06)] ÷ $1,200,000



The company’s tax rate is 30%, which means its after-tax cost of debt is 3.62%. To calculate this, we use the following formula:



[0.0517 × (1 - 0.30)]






The cost of debt before taking taxes into account is called the before-tax cost of debt. The after-tax cost of debt already factors in taxation. The key difference in the cost of debt before and after taxes lies in the fact that interest expenses are tax-deductible.


   Impact of Taxes on Cost of Debt  

Since the interest paid on debts is often treated favorably by tax codes, the tax deductions due to outstanding debts can lower the effective cost of debt paid by a borrower.



The after-tax cost of debt is the interest paid on debt less any income tax savings due to deductible interest expenses. To calculate the after-tax cost of debt, subtract a company’s effective tax rate from one, and multiply the difference by its cost of debt. The company’s marginal tax rate is not used. Instead, the company’s state and federal tax rates are added together to ascertain its effective tax rate.



For example, if a company’s only debt is a bond that it issued with a 5% rate, then its pretax cost of debt is 5%. If its effective tax rate is 30%, then the difference between 100% and 30% is 70%, and 70% of the 5% is 3.5%. The after-tax cost of debt is 3.5%. The rationale behind this calculation is based on the tax savings that the company receives from claiming its interest as a business expense.



Using the example, imagine the company issued $100,000 in bonds at a 5% rate with annual interest payments of $5,000. It claims this amount as an expense, which lowers the company’s income by $5,000. As the company pays a 30% tax rate, it saves $1,500 in taxes by writing off its interest. As a result, the company effectively only pays $3,500 on its debt. This equates to a 3.5% interest rate on its debt.


   How to Reduce Cost of Debt  

Cutting expenses down is a key goal for corporations and individuals. Whether it's an individual or corporation, the goal is usually the same: to keep costs down and revenue/income higher. Having said that, there are ways to reduce the cost of debt. The following are just a few of the ways to do so:



Negotiating Rates: Consider the situation and see if you can negotiate a better rate. Some lenders will offer a certain rate upfront. But you don't have to accept the rate they give you. In fact, many lenders may be willing to work with you to give you a lower one if you are willing to put in the effort to negotiate because they want your business.
Refinancing: Consider refinancing if interest rates lower or your situation changes and you're in a position to secure a better rate. People often do this with their mortgages when interest rates drop. This allows them to cut their monthly mortgage payments down.
Increase Payments: If you pay more than the required monthly payment, you'll drop your principal balance down, which can reduce the amount of interest you'll pay over the life of the debt.
Improving Credit Scores: Your credit score is what determines the rate you're going to get. If you have a low score, you'll end up paying a higher rate. Improving your score will help you get a lower rate. You can do this by maintaining your payments or paying off existing debt. Make sure you check your credit report regularly to ensure there are no errors.


   Example of Cost of Debt  

We've shown a few instances of the cost of debt. But let's take a look at one final example to show how it works.



Suppose you run a small business and you have two debt vehicles under the enterprise. The first is a loan worth $250,000 through a major financial institution. The second is a $150,000 loan through a private investor. The first loan has an interest rate of 5% and the second one has a rate of 4.5%.



First, let's calculate the total amount of interest you'll pay each year on both of these loans:



Loan # 1: $250,000 x 5% = $12,500Loan # 2: $150,000 x 4.5% = $6,750



We can add these two figures together to get the total annual interest, which is $19250.



In order to calculate the effective rate before taxes, we divide this figure by the total amount of the debt:



$19,250 ÷ $400,000 = 0.0481



Therefore, the effective before-tax rate of these debts is 4.81%




Why Does Debt Have a Cost?
Lenders require that borrowers pay back the principal amount of debt, as well as interest in addition to that amount. The interest rate, or yield, demanded by creditors is the cost of debt—it is demanded to account for the time value of money (TVM), inflation, and the risk that the loan will not be repaid. It also involves the opportunity costs associated with the money used for the loan not being put to use elsewhere.




What Makes the Cost of Debt Increase?
Several factors can increase the cost of debt, depending on the level of risk to the lender. These include a longer payback period, since the longer a loan is outstanding, the greater the effects of the time value of money and opportunity costs. The riskier the borrower is, the greater the cost of debt since there is a higher chance that the debt will default and the lender will not be repaid in full or in part. Backing a loan with collateral lowers the cost of debt, while unsecured debts will have higher costs.




How Do Cost of Debt and Cost of Equity Differ?
Debt and equity capital both provide businesses with the money they need to maintain their day-to-day operations. Equity capital tends to be more expensive for companies and does not have a favorable tax treatment. Too much debt financing, however, can lead to creditworthiness issues and increase the risk of default or bankruptcy. As a result, firms look to optimize their weighted average cost of capital (WACC) across debt and equity.




What Is the Agency Cost of Debt?
The agency cost of debt is the conflict that arises between shareholders and debtholders of a public company when debtholders place limits on the use of the firm’s capital if they believe that management will take actions that favor equity shareholders instead of debtholders. As a result, debtholders will place covenants on the use of capital, such as adherence to certain financial metrics, which, if broken, allows the debtholders to call back their capital.


   The Bottom Line  

Debt is unavoidable for most people and businesses. It can help us make major purchases or help finance our growth. But it's important to understand how it works. Not only are you paying the principal balance, but you're also responsible for the interest. This is referred to as the cost of debt. You can figure out what the cost of debt is by multiplying the value of your loan by the annual interest rate. Determine your effective interest rate by adding together all that interest by the total amount of debt you owe.
What Is the Cost of Equity?  

The cost of equity is the return that a company requires to decide if an investment meets capital return requirements. Firms often use it as a capital budgeting threshold for the required rate of return. A firm’s cost of equity represents the compensation that the market demands in exchange for owning the asset and bearing the risk of ownership. The traditional formula for the cost of equity is the dividend capitalization model and the capital asset pricing model (CAPM).





Key Takeaways

Cost of equity is the return that a company requires for an investment or project, or the return that an individual requires for an equity investment.The formula used to calculate the cost of equity is either the dividend capitalization model or the CAPM.The downside of the dividend capitalization model—despite being simpler and easier to calculate—is that it requires that the company pays a dividend.The cost of capital, generally calculated using the weighted average cost of capital, includes both the cost of equity and the cost of debt.Companies often compare the cost of equity to the cost of debt when considering strategic maneuvers to raise additional capital from external sources.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Cost of Equity Formula  

Using the dividend capitalization model, the cost of equity is:















Cost of Equity


=



DPS


CMV



+


GRD
















where:
















DPS


=


Dividends per share, for next year
















CMV


=


Current market value of stock
















GRD


=


Growth rate of dividends







\begin{aligned}&\text{Cost of Equity}=\frac{\text{DPS}}{\text{CMV}}+\text{GRD}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{DPS}=\text{Dividends per share, for next year}\\&\text{CMV}=\text{Current market value of stock}\\&\text{GRD}=\text{Growth rate of dividends}\end{aligned}


​Cost of Equity=CMVDPS​+GRDwhere:DPS=Dividends per share, for next yearCMV=Current market value of stockGRD=Growth rate of dividends​


   What the Cost of Equity Can Tell You  

The cost of equity refers to two separate concepts, depending on the party involved. If you are the investor, the cost of equity is the rate of return required on an investment in equity. If you are the company, the cost of equity determines the required rate of return on a particular project or investment.



There are two ways that a company can raise capital: debt or equity. Debt is cheaper, but the company must pay it back. Equity does not need to be repaid, but it generally costs more than debt capital due to the tax advantages of interest payments. Since the cost of equity is higher than debt, it generally provides a higher rate of return.


   Special Considerations  

The dividend capitalization model can be used to calculate the cost of equity, but it requires that a company pays dividends. The calculation is based on future dividends. The theory behind the equation is that the company’s obligation to pay dividends is the cost of paying shareholders and therefore the cost of equity. This is a limited model in its interpretation of costs.



The capital asset pricing model, however, can be used on any stock, even if the company does not pay dividends. That said, the theory behind CAPM is more complicated. The theory suggests that the cost of equity is based on the stock’s volatility and level of risk compared to the general market.


   The CAPM Formula is:  
















CoE


=


RFRR


















+


B


×


(MRR


−


RFRR)
















where:
















CoE


=


Cost of Equity
















RFRR


=


Risk-free rate of return
















B


=


Beta
















MRR


=


Market rate of return







\begin{aligned}&\text{CoE}=\text{RFRR}\\&\qquad\quad+\text{B}\times\text{(MRR}-\text{RFRR)}\\&\textbf{where:}\\&\text{CoE}=\text{Cost of Equity}\\&\text{RFRR}=\text{Risk-free rate of return}\\&\text{B}=\text{Beta}\\&\text{MRR}=\text{Market rate of return}\end{aligned}


​CoE=RFRR+B×(MRR−RFRR)where:CoE=Cost of EquityRFRR=Risk-free rate of returnB=BetaMRR=Market rate of return​
In this equation, the risk-free rate is the rate of return paid on risk-free investments such as Treasuries. Beta is a measure of risk calculated as a regression on the company’s stock price. The higher the volatility, the higher the beta and relative risk compared to the general market.
The market rate of return is the average market rate. In general, a company with a high beta—that is, a company with a high degree of risk—will have a higher cost of equity.






The cost of equity can mean two different things, depending on who’s using it. Investors use it as a benchmark for an equity investment, while companies use it for projects or related investments.


   Cost of Equity vs. Cost of Capital  

The cost of capital is the total cost of raising capital, taking into account both the cost of equity and the cost of debt. A stable, well-performing company generally will have a lower cost of capital. To calculate the cost of capital, the cost of equity and the cost of debt must be weighted and then added together. The cost of capital is generally calculated using the weighted average cost of capital.



When considering the weighted average cost of capital, companies may favor the financial option that is least expensive. For example, its cost of equity may be 8% while its cost of debt may be 4%. Assuming a company has a balanced capital structure (50% of each), the company's total cost of capital is 6%.



As a company goes out to seek additional capital, it often compares which method is cheaper than its weighted average cost of capital. In this case, the company's average debt costs less, so the company may be opposed to issuing additional equity at a higher cost.




What Is the Cost of Equity?
The cost of equity is the return that a company must realize in exchange for a given investment or project. When a company decides whether it takes on new financing, for instance, the cost of equity determines the return that the company must achieve to warrant the new initiative. Companies typically undergo two ways to raise funds: through debt or equity. Each has differing costs and rates of return.




How Do You Calculate the Cost of Equity?
There are two primary ways to calculate the cost of equity. The dividend capitalization model takes dividends per share (DPS) for the next year divided by the current market value (CMV) of the stock, and adds this number to the growth rate of dividends (GRD), where Cost of Equity = DPS ÷ CMV + GRD. Conversely, the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) evaluates if an investment is fairly valued, given its risk and time value of money in relation to its anticipated return. Under this model, Cost of Equity = Risk-Free Rate of Return + Beta × (Market Rate of Return – Risk-Free Rate of Return).




What Is an Example of Cost of Equity?
Consider company A trades on the S&P 500 at a 10% rate of return. Meanwhile, it has a beta of 1.1, expressing marginally more volatility than the market. Presently, the T-bill (risk-free rate) is 1%. Using the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) to determine its cost of equity financing, you would apply Cost of Equity = Risk-Free Rate of Return + Beta × (Market Rate of Return – Risk-Free Rate of Return) to reach 1 + 1.1 × (10-1) = 10.9%.




What Is the Weighted Average Cost of Equity?
A company's weighted average cost of equity measures the cost of equity proportionally across the types of equity. Instead of taking the simple average cost across all types of equity (i.e. common shares, preferred shares, etc.), the weighted average cost of equity proportionally considers the equity value of each type of equity. To calculate the weighted average cost of equity, multiple by the cost of any given specific equity type by the percentage of capital structure it represents.


   The Bottom Line  

A company's cost of equity is an important consideration as companies determine the best way to raise capital. Often calculated as the dividends issued per share divided by the current market price (plus a growth rate), the cost of equity is the expense a company should assume it must return back to investors based on prevailing costs. The cost of equity is often compared to the cost of debt when making capital structure decisions.
What Is Cost of Goods Sold (COGS)?  

Cost of goods sold (COGS) refers to the direct costs of producing the goods sold by a company. This amount includes the cost of the materials and labor directly used to create the good. It excludes indirect expenses, such as distribution costs and sales force costs.



Cost of goods sold is also referred to as "cost of sales."





Key Takeaways

Cost of goods sold (COGS) includes all of the costs and expenses directly related to the production of goods.COGS excludes indirect costs such as overhead and sales and marketing.COGS is deducted from revenues (sales) in order to calculate gross profit and gross margin. Higher COGS results in lower margins.The value of COGS will change depending on the accounting standards used in the calculation.COGS differs from operating expenses (OPEX) in that OPEX includes expenditures that are not directly tied to the production of goods or services.












Investopedia / Xiaojie Liu


   Why Is Cost of Goods Sold (COGS) Important?  

COGS is an important metric on financial statements as it is subtracted from a company’s revenues to determine its gross profit. Gross profit is a profitability measure that evaluates how efficient a company is in managing its labor and supplies in the production process.



Because COGS is a cost of doing business, it is recorded as a business expense on income statements. Knowing the cost of goods sold helps analysts, investors, and managers estimate a company’s bottom line. If COGS increases, net income will decrease. While this movement is beneficial for income tax purposes, the business will have less profit for its shareholders. Businesses thus try to keep their COGS low so that net profits will be higher.



Cost of goods sold (COGS) is the cost of acquiring or manufacturing the products that a company sells during a period, so the only costs included in the measure are those that are directly tied to the production of the products, including the cost of labor, materials, and manufacturing overhead.



For example, COGS for an automaker would include the material costs for the parts that go into making the car plus the labor costs used to put the car together. The cost of sending the cars to dealerships and the cost of the labor used to sell the car would be excluded.



Furthermore, costs incurred on the cars that were not sold during the year will not be included when calculating COGS, whether the costs are direct or indirect. In other words, COGS includes the direct cost of producing goods or services that were purchased by customers during the year. As a rule of thumb, if you want to know if an expense falls under COGS, ask: "Would this expense have been an expense even if no sales were generated?"






COGS only applies to those costs directly related to producing goods intended for sale.


   Formula and Calculation of Cost of Goods Sold (COGS)  
















COGS


=


Beginning Inventory


+


P


−


Ending Inventory
















where
















P


=


Purchases during the period







\begin{aligned} &\text{COGS}=\text{Beginning Inventory}+\text{P}-\text{Ending Inventory}\\ &\textbf{where}\\ &\text{P}=\text{Purchases during the period}\\ \end{aligned}


​COGS=Beginning Inventory+P−Ending InventorywhereP=Purchases during the period​



Inventory that is sold appears in the income statement under the COGS account. The beginning inventory for the year is the inventory left over from the previous year—that is, the merchandise that was not sold in the previous year.



Any additional productions or purchases made by a manufacturing or retail company are added to the beginning inventory. At the end of the year, the products that were not sold are subtracted from the sum of beginning inventory and additional purchases. The final number derived from the calculation is the cost of goods sold for the year.



The balance sheet has an account called the current assets account. Under this account is an item called inventory. The balance sheet only captures a company’s financial health at the end of an accounting period. This means that the inventory value recorded under current assets is the ending inventory.


   What Are Different Accounting Methods For COGS?  

The value of the cost of goods sold depends on the inventory costing method adopted by a company. There are three methods that a company can use when recording the level of inventory sold during a period: first in, first out (FIFO), last in, first out (LIFO), and the average cost method. The special identification method is used for high-ticket or unique items.


  FIFO  

The earliest goods to be purchased or manufactured are sold first. Since prices tend to go up over time, a company that uses the FIFO method will sell its least expensive products first, which translates to a lower COGS than the COGS recorded under LIFO. Hence, the net income using the FIFO method increases over time.


  LIFO  

LIFO is where the latest goods added to the inventory are sold first. During periods of rising prices, goods with higher costs are sold first, leading to a higher COGS amount. Over time, the net income tends to decrease.


  Average Cost Method  

The average price of all the goods in stock, regardless of purchase date, is used to value the goods sold. Taking the average product cost over a time period has a smoothing effect that prevents COGS from being highly impacted by the extreme costs of one or more acquisitions or purchases.


  Special Identification Method  

The special identification method uses the specific cost of each unit of merchandise (also called inventory or goods) to calculate the ending inventory and COGS for each period. In this method, a business knows precisely which item was sold and the exact cost. Further, this method is typically used in industries that sell unique items like cars, real estate, and rare and precious jewels.


   What Type of Companies Are Excluded From a COGS Deduction?  

Many service companies do not have any cost of goods sold at all. COGS is not addressed in any detail in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but COGS is defined as only the cost of inventory items sold during a given period. Not only do service companies have no goods to sell, but purely service companies also do not have inventories. If COGS is not listed on a company's income statement, no deduction can be applied for those costs.



Examples of pure service companies include accounting firms, law offices, real estate appraisers, business consultants, professional dancers, etc. Even though all of these industries have business expenses and normally spend money to provide their services, they do not list COGS. Instead, they have what is called "cost of services," which does not count towards a COGS deduction.


   Cost of Revenue vs. COGS  

Costs of revenue exist for ongoing contract services that can include raw materials, direct labor, shipping costs, and commissions paid to sales employees. These items cannot be claimed as COGS without a physically produced product to sell, however. The IRS website even lists some examples of "personal service businesses" that do not calculate COGS on their income statements. These include doctors, lawyers, carpenters, and painters.



Many service-based companies have some products to sell. For example, airlines and hotels are primarily providers of services such as transport and lodging, respectively, yet they also sell gifts, food, beverages, and other items. These items are definitely considered goods, and these companies certainly have inventories of such goods. Both of these industries can list COGS on their income statements and claim them for tax purposes.


   Operating Expenses vs. COGS  

Both operating expenses and cost of goods sold (COGS) are expenditures that companies incur with running their business; however, the expenses are segregated on the income statement. Unlike COGS, operating expenses (OPEX) are expenditures that are not directly tied to the production of goods or services.



Typically, SG&A (selling, general, and administrative expenses) are included under operating expenses as a separate line item. SG&A expenses are expenditures, such as overhead costs, that are not directly tied to a product. Examples of operating expenses include the following:



RentUtilitiesOffice suppliesLegal costsSales and marketingPayrollInsurance costs


   What Are the Limitations of COGS?  

COGS can easily be manipulated by accountants or managers looking to cook the books. It can be altered by:



Allocating to inventory higher manufacturing overhead costs than those incurredOverstating discountsOverstating returns to suppliersAltering the amount of inventory in stock at the end of an accounting periodOvervaluing inventory on handFailing to write off obsolete inventory



When inventory is artificially inflated, COGS will be under-reported which, in turn, will lead to a higher-than-actual gross profit margin, and hence, an inflated net income.



Investors looking through a company’s financial statements can spot unscrupulous inventory accounting by checking for inventory buildup, such as inventory rising faster than revenue or total assets reported.




How Do You Calculate Cost of Goods Sold (COGS)?
Cost of goods sold (COGS) is calculated by adding up the various direct costs required to generate a company’s revenues. Importantly, COGS is based only on the costs that are directly utilized in producing that revenue, such as the company’s inventory or labor costs that can be attributed to specific sales. By contrast, fixed costs such as managerial salaries, rent, and utilities are not included in COGS. Inventory is a particularly important component of COGS, and accounting rules permit several different approaches for how to include it in the calculation.




Are Salaries Included in COGS?
COGS does not include salaries and other general and administrative expenses; however, certain types of labor costs can be included in COGS, provided that they can be directly associated with specific sales. For example, a company that uses contractors to generate revenues might pay those contractors a commission based on the price charged to the customer. In that scenario, the commission earned by the contractors might be included in the company’s COGS, since that labor cost is directly connected to the revenues being generated.




How Does Inventory Affect COGS?
In theory, COGS should include the cost of all inventory that was sold during the accounting period. In practice, however, companies often don’t know exactly which units of inventory were sold. Instead, they rely on accounting methods such as the first in, first out (FIFO) and last in, first out (LIFO) rules to estimate what value of inventory was actually sold in the period. If the inventory value included in COGS is relatively high, then this will place downward pressure on the company’s gross profit. For this reason, companies sometimes choose accounting methods that will produce a lower COGS figure, in an attempt to boost their reported profitability.


   The Bottom Line  

Cost of goods sold is the direct cost of producing a good, which includes the cost of the materials and labor used to create the good. COGS directly impacts a company's profits as COGS is subtracted from revenue. Companies must manage their COGS to ensure higher profits. If a company can reduce its COGS through better deals with suppliers or through more efficiency in the production process, it can be more profitable.
What Is Cost, Insurance, and Freight (CIF)?  

Cost, insurance, and freight (CIF) is an international shipping agreement, which represents the charges paid by a seller to cover the costs, insurance, and freight of a buyer's order while the cargo is in transit. Cost, insurance, and freight only applies to goods transported via a waterway, sea, or ocean.



The goods are exported to the buyer's port named in the sales contract. Once the goods are loaded onto the vessel, the risk of loss or damage is transferred from the seller to the buyer. However, insuring the cargo and paying for freight remains the seller's responsibility.



CIF is similar to carriage and insurance paid to (CIP), but CIF is used for only sea and waterway shipments, while CIP can be used for any mode of transport, such as by truck.





Key Takeaways:

Cost, insurance, and freight (CIF) is an international commerce term and only applies to goods shipped via a waterway or ocean.With cost, insurance, and freight, the seller covers the costs, insurance, and freight of a buyer's order while in transit.Once the cargo has been delivered to the buyer's destination port, the buyer assumes responsibility for the costs of importing and delivering the goods.However, the risk transfer occurs from the seller to the buyer when the goods have been loaded on the vessel.The buyer takes ownership of the goods once on the ship, and if the cargo is damaged during transit, the buyer must file a claim with the seller's insurance company.


   Understanding Cost, Insurance, and Freight (CIF)  

The contract terms of CIF define when the liability of the seller ends and the liability of the buyer begins. CIF is only used when shipping goods overseas or via a waterway.



The seller has the responsibility for paying the cost and freight of shipping the goods to the buyer's port of destination. Usually, exporters who have direct access to ships will use CIF. However, the buyer has responsibilities as well, which are outlined below.


  Seller's Responsibilities  

Under CIF terms, the seller's responsibilities include:



Purchasing export licenses for the productProviding inspections of productsAny charges or fees for shipping and loading the goods to the seller's portPackaging costs for exporting the cargoFees for customs clearance, duty, and taxes (for exporting)Cost of shipping the freight via sea or waterway from the seller's port to the buyer's port of destinationCost of insuring the shipment up until the buyer's port of destinationCovering the cost of any damage or destruction to the goods



The seller must deliver the goods to the ship within the agreed-upon timeframe and provide proof of delivery and loading.


  Buyer's Responsibilities  

Once the goods have arrived at the buyer's destination port, the buyer assumes responsibility for the costs associated with importing and delivering the goods. Some of these costs include the following:



Unloading the product at the port terminalTransferring the product within the terminal and to the delivery siteCustom duty charges and associated with importing the goodsCharges for transporting, unloading, and delivering the goods to the final destination


  Transfer of Risk  

It's important to note that when shipping internationally, there can be different risk and cost transfer points between the buyer and seller, depending on the type of shipping agreement. Under CIF, the risk transfer is at a different point than the cost transfer. The exact details of the contract will determine when the liability for the goods transfers from seller to buyer.



Since the seller pays the shipping, freight, and insurance costs until the cargo arrives at the buyer's destination port, the cost transfer occurs when the goods have arrived at the buyer's port. However, the risk transfer occurs from the seller to the buyer when the goods have been loaded on the vessel. Although the seller must purchase insurance, the buyer has ownership of the goods once loaded onto the ship, and if the goods have been damaged during transit, the buyer must file a claim with the seller's insurance company.


  Special Considerations  

Since the buyer assumes the risk only when the cargo has been loaded on the vessel, certain situations may not be suitable for a CIF agreement. For example, with containerized cargo shipments, the goods may sit in a container for days before being loaded onto the vessel at the seller's port. Under CIF, the buyer would be at risk since the goods would not be insured while they sit in the container waiting to be loaded on the vessel. As a result, CIF agreements would not be appropriate for shipments, including containerized cargo.






CIF is different from cost and freight provision (CFR) whereby sellers are not required to insure goods in transit.


   The ICC and Cost, Insurance, and Freight (CIF)  

CIF is one of the international commerce terms known as Incoterms. Incoterms are common trade rules developed by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) in 1936. The ICC established these terms to govern the shipping policies and responsibilities of buyers and sellers who engage in international trade. Incoterms are often similar to domestic terms (such as the U.S. Uniform Commercial Code) but with international applications.



For example, the parties to a contract must state the locale of the governing law for their terms. The ICC limits the use of CIF when transporting goods to only those that move via inland waterways or by sea. The ICC's official definition of CIF reads:



“The seller delivers the goods on board the vessel or procures the goods already so delivered. The risk of loss or damage to the goods passes when the goods are on board the vessel. The seller must contract for and pay the costs and freight necessary to bring the goods to the named port of destination. 



The seller also contracts for insurance cover against the buyer’s risk of loss of or damage to the goods during the carriage. The buyer should note that under "Carriage and Insurance Paid To" the seller is required to obtain insurance only on minimum cover. Should the buyer wish to have more insurance protection, it will need either to agree as much expressly with the seller or to make its own extra insurance arrangements."


  Incoterms 2020  

Over the years, the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) has made changes to the terms and guidelines for international trade. In 2020, the ICC made adjustments to the rules, (called Incoterms 2020), which in part, made changes to security requirements for shipments.



Incoterms 2020 also made changes to the insurance coverage requirements under CIF agreements. Sellers are now required to obtain a higher level or more comprehensive insurance than what was required under Incoterms 2010.





Know Your Incoterms

There are seven Incoterms 2020 rules for any type of transport and four Incoterms rules for sea and inland waterway transports.


   CIF vs. Free on Board (FOB)  

Cost, insurance, and freight (CIF) and Free on Board (FOB) are both international shipping agreements but have distinct differences between them. Each type of contract will cover different circumstances and much depend on your experience with international trade.


  Cost, Insurance, and Freight (CIF)  

CIF is an international agreement between a buyer and seller in which the seller has responsibility for the cost, insurance, and freight of a sea or waterway shipment. Although the possession of the shipment transfers to the buyer once the goods have been loaded on the boat or ship, the seller is responsible for any shipping insurance and freight charges.



As a result, the seller is responsible for the costs of moving the shipment until the goods have arrived at the buyer's destination port. Some of these costs include fees for shipping, export customs clearance, duty, and taxes.



Once the goods have been delivered to the buyer's destination port, the buyer must pay the agreed price for the goods and is responsible for any import fees, taxes, or custom duty charges. Also, any transportation, inspection, and licensing costs as well as the cost to transport the goods to their final location are the buyer's responsibility.


  Free on Board (FOB)  

Free on Board means the seller has the responsibility for delivering and loading the product onto the ship, including any costs associated with that process. However, the responsibilities transfer to the buyer once the goods have been loaded onto the ship.



The seller has the following responsibilities under FOB:



Cost of packaging the exported itemsAny charges for loading the product on the trucks and delivering the goods to the sellers portExport taxes, customs duty, and costsAny transfer, handling, and loading charges associated with loading the product onto the ship



Under FOB, the buyer has the following responsibilities:



Freight charges associated with shipping the cargo from the seller's port to the buyer's port of destinationThe cost of insuring the freight, but the buyer has the option of not buying insuranceCosts of unloading the shipment at the buyer's port and delivering it to the final destinationAny import duties, taxes, and costs associated with clearing customs



It's important to note that there are different types of FOB agreements and the insurance coverage can be negotiated between the buyer and seller. In other words, there could be an agreement in which the buyer pays the freight charges or cost of delivery but the seller might agree to pay for the marine insurance.



CIF and FOB are helpful since these shipping agreements outline whether the buyer or seller has the responsibility for the freight during the shipment. These terms are important since they indicate which parties are responsible for insurance, freight charges, and which party is held responsible in the event the goods are damaged during transport.


   Example of Cost, Insurance, and Freight (CIF)  

As an example, let's say that Best Buy has ordered 1,000 flat-screen televisions from Sony using a CIF agreement to Kobe, a Japanese port. Sony has delivered the order to the port and loaded the product onto the ship for transport. Once loading has been completed, the risk of loss is transferred from Sony to Best Buy. In return, Sony has purchased insurance and pays the freight and shipping costs until the ordered goods reach the buyer's port of destination.



While the ship is en route, a fire breaks out in one of the cargo bays. The cargo is damaged due to the fire and the water during fire fighting efforts. Since a CIF agreement was in place, Best Buy can file an insurance claim to cover the cost of the damaged goods.




What Does CIF Mean in Shipping Terms?
Cost, insurance, and freight (CIF) is an international shipping agreement used when freight is shipped via sea or waterway. Under CIF, the seller is responsible for covering the costs, insurance, and freight of the buyer's shipment while in transit. The buyer is responsible for any costs once the freight has reached the buyer's destination port.




Who Pays CIF Freight?
The seller must pay for the costs of transferring and shipping the freight as well as insuring the cargo until the goods have been delivered to the buyer's port.




Does CIF Include Duty?
Duty charges for exporting the goods from the seller's port of destination are the responsibility of the seller. However, duty charges at the buyer's port of destination (import duties) are the responsibility of the buyer.




When Should I Use CIF?
CIF is only used when shipping goods via ocean or waterway, meaning CIF cannot be used for air freight. CIF can be easier for buyers who don't want to go through the trouble of obtaining insurance, paying freight charges, and assuming all of the responsibility for shipping internationally.


   The Bottom Line  

Cost, insurance, and freight (CIF) is an international shipping term that describes the seller's responsibility for the cost of shipping, freight charges, and insuring the cargo being shipped via ocean or waterway. CIF means that the seller is responsible for the costs of transporting the cargo and obtaining insurance to protect the buyer from any damages to the goods during transport. However, the buyer assumes responsibility for the goods once the cargo has reached the buyer's port.



CIF is different from cost and freight (CFR), which is when the seller is responsible for the shipping and freight costs, but under CFR, the seller is not responsible for obtaining marine insurance. There are various types of international shipping agreements, including cost, insurance, and freight (CIF), free on board (FOB), and cost and freight (CFR). As a result, it's important that buyers and sellers understand all of the legal terms within these agreements before engaging in international trade.



Correction: April 30, 2023—An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that ownership transfers from the seller to the buyer when the goods reach the destination port. In fact, ownership transfers at the point that the goods are loaded on the ship.
What Is the Cost of Labor?  

The cost of labor is the sum of all wages paid to employees, as well as the cost of employee benefits and payroll taxes paid by an employer. The cost of labor is broken into direct and indirect (overhead) costs. Direct costs include wages for the employees that produce a product, including workers on an assembly line, while indirect costs are associated with support labor, such as employees who maintain factory equipment.





Key Takeaways

Costs of labor can be categorized into two main categories, direct (production) and indirect (non-production) cost of labor.Direct costs include wages for the employees that produce a product, including workers on an assembly line, while indirect costs are associated with support labor, such as employees who maintain factory equipment.If the cost of labor is improperly allocated or evaluated, it can cause the price of goods or services to shift away from their true cost and damage profits.


   Understanding Cost of Labor  

When a manufacturer sets the sales price of a product, the firm takes into account the costs of labor, material, and overhead. The sales price must include the total costs incurred; if any costs are left out of the sales price calculation, the amount of profit is lower than expected. If demand for a product declines, or if competition forces the business to cut prices, the company must reduce the cost of labor to remain profitable. To do so, a business can reduce the number of employees, cut back on production, require higher levels of productivity, or reduce other factors in production cost.





Important

In some cases, the cost of labor can be shifted directly toward the consumer. For example, in the hospitality sector, tipping is often encouraged, allowing businesses to reduce their cost of labor.


   The Differences Between Direct and Indirect Costs of Labor  

Assume that XYZ Furniture is planning the sales price for dining room chairs. The direct labor costs are those expenses that can be directly traced to production. XYZ, for example, pays workers to run machinery that cuts wood into specific pieces for chair assembly, and those expenses are direct costs. On the other hand, XYZ has several employees who provide security for the factory and warehouse; those labor costs are indirect, because the cost cannot be traced to a specific act of production.


   Examples of Fixed and Variable Costs of Labor  

Labor costs are also classified as fixed costs or variable costs. For example, the cost of labor to run the machinery is a variable cost, which varies with the firm's level of production. A firm can easily increase or decrease variable labor cost by increasing or decreasing production. Fixed labor costs can include set fees for long term service contracts. A firm might have a contract with an outside vendor to perform repair and maintenance on the equipment, and that is a fixed cost.


   Factoring in Undercosting and Overcosting  

Since indirect labor costs can be difficult to allocate to the correct product or service, XYZ Furniture may underallocate labor costs to one product and overallocate labor costs to another. This situation is referred to as undercosting and overcosting, and it can lead to incorrect product pricing.



Assume, for example, that XYZ manufactures both dining room chairs and wooden bed frames, and that both products incur labor costs to run machinery, which total $20,000 per month. If XYZ allocates too much of the $20,000 labor costs to wooden bed frames, too little is allocated to dining room chairs. The labor costs for both products are incorrect, and the sale prices of the two goods will not reflect their true cost.


   Cost of Labor vs. Cost of Living   

While the cost of labor refers to the sum of all wages paid to employees, it should not be confused with the cost of living. The cost of living is the cost needed to maintain a certain standard of living by a consumer in a specific geographic location. This includes housing, food, transportation, entertainment, etc. These rates can sometimes be much higher than the cost of labor, especially in highly metropolitan areas. For example, the cost of living is higher in New York City than in a suburban city. Demand for housing and food is higher, which means higher prices for consumers.
What Is the Cost of Living?  

The cost of living is the amount of money needed to cover basic expenses such as housing, food, taxes, and healthcare in a certain place and time period. The cost of living is often used to compare how expensive it is to live in one city versus another. The cost of living is tied to wages. If expenses are higher in a city, such as New York, for example, salary levels must be higher so that people can afford to live in that city.


   Cost of Living and Lifestyle  

The cost of living can be a significant factor in personal wealth accumulation because a salary can provide a higher standard of living in a city where daily expenses such as rent, food and entertainment are less. In contrast, a high salary can seem insufficient in an expensive city such as New York. In a 2023 survey, Mercer, a global human resources firm, finds the cities with the highest cost of living include Hong Kong; Singapore; Zurich, Geneva, and Basel in Switzerland, in that order. New York City was ranked the costliest city in the United States followed by Los Angeles and San Francisco, and Honolulu.


   The Cost of Living Index  

The cost of living index compares the cost of living in a major city to a corresponding metropolitan area. The index incorporates the expense of various living expenses creating an aggregate measure that workforce entrants can use as a benchmark. As college graduates weigh employment alternatives and currently employed job seekers consider relocation, the index provides an informative snapshot of rental, transportation and grocery costs.



Different indexes may calculate living expenses differently. For example, in 2023, Kiplinger found San Diego to be the most expensive city based on the Council for Community and Economic Research, not New York City. The Council's cost of living index measured prices in 265 urban areas for expenses such as housing, groceries, utilities, transportation and healthcare, even getting a haircut or going to a movie. In the case of San Diego, the cost of housing is 122% above the national average, and the cost of transportation is over 32% higher than the national average.






Three out of six of the world’s most expensive cities for expatriates are now in Switzerland.


   Cost of Living and Wages  

The rising cost of living has spurred debate over the U.S. federal minimum wage and the disparity between the lowest salary allowed by law and the earnings needed to maintain an adequate cost of living. Proponents of a hike in wages cite increased worker productivity levels since 1968 as inequitably correlated to the minimum hourly rate of pay. As pay levels once tracked the increase in productivity, the divergence between earnings and worker efficiency has reached historically disproportionate levels. By contrast, opponents of a minimum wage contend that a raise could spur higher consumer prices as employers offset rising labor costs.






Multinational corporations use cost of living to assess expatriate salary packages for international assignees.


   Wage Increases and Cost-of-Living Adjustments (COLAs)  

In 1973, Congress enacted legislation to address cost-of-living adjustments (COLAs). COLA adjustments for Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits were instituted so that the payments keep pace with inflation. For example, in December 2022 the COLA was 8.7% and the increased amounts were to be paid, starting in January 2023. Federal SSI payment levels increased by the same percentage.



The Social Security Act requires COLAs to be based on increases in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W). The Social Security Administration states that:



A COLA effective for December of the current year is equal to the percentage increase (if any) in the CPI-W from the average for the third quarter of the current year to the average for the third quarter of the last year in which a COLA became effective.





Key Takeaways

Cost of living is the amount of money needed to sustain a certain standard of living by affording expenses such as housing, food, taxes, and healthcare.Salaries should reflect the higher cost of living in more expensive cities like New York City.The cost of living index compares the cost of living in a major city to a corresponding metropolitan area.


   Real World Example  

The Economic Policy Institute updated its Family Budget Calculator in March 2022. The calculator helps families determine how much salary they will need to cover the cost of living in 3,142 counties in all 613 metro areas.The calculator finds San Francisco to be the most expensive city and a two-parent household with two children would need a total income of $142,481 with a basic budget for expenses. The least expensive metro area was the McAllen-Edinburg-Mission metro area in Texas, where the same family would need a median income of $45,446. Interestingly, there is nowhere in the United States where a single adult with no children would be able to cover the cost of living by earning the minimum wage.
What Is a Cost-of-Living Adjustment (COLA)?  

A cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) is an increase made to Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) to counteract the effects of rising prices in the economy—called inflation.



COLAs are typically equal to the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W) for a specific period. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) represents the average prices of a basket of goods and is used to measure inflation.



The COLA for 2023 is 8.7%. If someone received $10,000 in Social Security benefits in 2022, their 2023 annual benefit would total $10,870.





Key Takeaways

A cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) is an increase in Social Security benefits to counteract inflation.Inflation is measured using the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W).Automatic yearly COLAs began in 1975.The COLA for 2023 is 8.7%.


   Understanding the Cost-of-Living Adjustment (COLA)  

Because inflation was high during the 1970s, compensation-related contracts, real estate contracts, and government benefits used COLAs to protect against inflation. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) determines the CPI-W, which the Social Security Administration (SSA) uses to compute COLAs. The COLA formula is determined by applying the percentage increase in the CPI-W from the third quarter of one year to the third quarter of the following year. This information is updated regularly on the SSA website.



Congress ratified a COLA provision to offer automatic yearly COLAs based on the annual increase in the CPI-W that went into effect in 1975. Before 1975, Social Security benefits were increased when Congress approved special legislation. In 1975, COLAs were based on the increase in the CPI-W from the second quarter of 1974 to the first quarter of 1975.



From 1976 to 1983, COLAs were based on the increases in the CPI-W from the first quarter of the previous year to the first quarter of the current year. Since 1983, COLAs have been dependent on the CPI-W from the third quarter of the previous year to the third quarter of the current year.



Inflation levels ranged from 3.3% to 11.3% in the 1970s. In 1975, the COLA increase was 8%, and the inflation rate was 9.1%. In 1980, the COLA reached the highest level in history at 14.3%, while the inflation rate was 13.5%. During the 1990s, drastically lower inflation rates prompted small COLA increases averaging 2% to 3% per year. That continued into the early 2000s when even lower inflation rates resulted in no COLA increases in 2010, 2011, and 2016. The COLA for 2023 is 8.7%, up from 5.9% in 2022 and 1.3% in 2021.


   How COLA Is Determined  

COLA is reliant on two components: the CPI-W and the employer-contracted COLA percentage. CPI determines the rate of inflation and is compared yearly. When consumer prices drop—or if inflation has not been high enough to substantiate a COLA increase—recipients do not receive a COLA. If there is no CPI-W increase, then there is no COLA increase.


  Hold-Harmless Provision  

In the Social Security Act, the hold-harmless provision prevents some Social Security beneficiaries' benefit amount from decreasing from one year to the next if there is an increase in their standard Medicare Part B premiums. If the increase in Part B premiums causes the beneficiaries' Social Security amount to be less, then the Part B premium will be reduced to ensure the nominal value of the Social Security benefit will be the same.



Typically, few individuals are held harmless; however, in years where there is no Social Security COLA, more individuals may be impacted by this provision. In 2018, for example, there was a 2% Social Security COLA, and 28% of Part B enrollees were held harmless. In 2016, there was no COLA and 70% of enrollees were held harmless from the Part B premium increase.


   Other Types of COLAs  

Some employers, such as the U.S. military, occasionally give a temporary COLA to employees who are required to perform work assignments in cities with a higher cost of living than their home city. This COLA expires when the work assignment is finished.




How Much Is the COLA Adjustment for 2023?
The COLA adjustment for 2023 is 8.7%. An individual's annual benefit would total $10,870 if they received $10,000 in Social Security benefits in 2022.




How Do You Calculate Your COLA Increase for 2023?
Take your monthly payment and multiply it by 8.7% to calculate your COLA increase for 2023. Then add this number to the amount you were receiving in 2022. This will show you the new amount you'll receive in 2023. You can also multiply the amount you received in 2022 by 1 + 8.7%, or 1.087.




Does Everyone on Social Security Get the COLA Increase?
Yes, everyone on Social Security will get the COLA increase. The purpose of COLA is to ensure that benefits are not eroded because of inflation.


   The Bottom Line  

Social Security and Supplemental Security Income are both subject to cost-of-living increases. The idea is to provide an increase in benefits equal to the pace of inflation. The COLA increase for 2023 was 8.7% so your annual Social Security benefit would increase to $10,870 if you received $10,000 in 2022.
What Is Cost of Revenue?  

The term cost of revenue refers to the total cost of manufacturing and delivering a product or service to consumers. Cost of revenue information is found in a company's income statement. It is designed to represent the direct costs associated with the goods and services the company provides. The service industry often favors using the cost of revenue metric because it is a more comprehensive account of the various costs associated with selling a good or service.





Key Takeaways

Cost of revenue is the total cost of manufacturing and delivering a product or service to consumers.The information for cost of revenue is found in a company's income statement.This metric is favored by the service industry because it is a more comprehensive account of the costs associated with selling a good or service.Cost of revenue is different from cost of goods sold because the former also includes external production, such as distribution and marketing.Examples of cost of revenue include cost of goods sold, warranties, returns, shipping, and commissions.


   How Cost of Revenue Works  

Cost of revenue is the total cost incurred to produce and sell a product or service. It includes all the costs associated with the production process, such as raw materials, labor, overhead expenses. It also includes any other direct costs related to the production and delivery of the product or service.



Cost of revenue is important for businesses because it helps them determine their true gross profit margin. Companies should be interested in know how much residual revenue is left over after all costs of making and selling a product have been incurred. This residual profit is used to pay overhead or indirect costs still vital to the operation of the company but not directly tied to making a product.


   Formula and Calculation of Cost of Revenue  

The formula for the cost of revenue is:



Cost of Revenue = COGS + Shipping Costs + Commissions + Warranties + Returns + Other Direct Costs



To calculate cost of revenue, it's important to first decide what period to use. Many companies will calculate cost of revenue on a monthly or quarterly basis to use for decision-making during the course of the year.



Another important aspect of calculating cost of revenue is determine what the beginning inventory was at the beginning of the period. This figure is required because it is an integral part of calculating the cost of goods sold.



Last, companies need to be mindful of the "other" category. Depending on the nature of the company, the product line may have a diverse set of direct costs. Not every company will have the same direct costs, and these direct costs may change from one period to the next as a company evolves its manufacturing process.






Cost of revenue is not a GAAP-approved calculation and is not included on publicly-issued financial statements.


   What Is Included in Cost of Revenue  

As mentioned before, every company's direct costs and cost of revenue may be calculated differently. Here's a broad range of what is included in the cost of revenue, though not all of these costs may be relevant and other direct costs not included in this list should be included.


  Direct Materials  

Direct materials are the costs of raw materials used in the production of a product. Direct materials often include any shipping or handling costs associated with acquiring these materials. Direct materials are included in the cost of goods sold component of the cost of revenue.


  Direct Labor  

Direct labor is the costs of wages, salaries, and benefits paid to employees directly involved in the production or delivery of the product or service. Companies may directly trace the payroll costs of specific employees to product lines, though this often entails an allocation process (especially for those employees who may work on different product lines). Direct labor is also included in the cost of goods sold component of cost of revenue.


  Manufacturing Overhead  

Sometimes, there are costs a company simply can't directly trace. However, these costs are still necessary for the manufacturing of a product. Manufacturing overhead includes all non-directly associated costs of the production process such as utilities or equipment maintenance. These are also usually reported as part of the cost of goods sold.


  Freight and Shipping  

Freight and shipping are the costs of shipping finished products to customers or retailers. These are included in the cost of revenue because they represent expenses necessary to distribute goods as part of the sale. Without these expenses, customers and retailers would be unable to receive the products, so these costs can often not be avoided.


  Duties and Taxes  

In a similar manner, duties and taxes may be required to distribute a good. This is especially true for goods being distributed internationally that require importation or exportation. Though companies can choose to not distribute to these regions, these costs are often avoidable once a company commits to distributing to a region.


  Returns and Warranties  

Returns are costs associated with good not kept or allowances given to customers such as shipping costs or restocking fees. Companies may expect that a certain percentage of goods will be returned as the normal course of business. In addition, companies may incur costs while products are under a warranty period. These costs may be considered a cost of revenue because customers may be have been incentivized to buy a good partially because of the warranty period.


  Commissions  

Companies may pay commissions to sales agents, distributors, or other intermediaries involved in the sale of the product. These commissions are often directly related to the product and not broadly related to the company. As long as these costs can be tied to a product, companies often include them in the cost of revenue because goods were often sold due to this extra incentive awarded to sellers.


  Other Direct Costs  

As mentioned before, companies have very different structures from one another. There are often other direct costs unique to a specific product line or industry that necessitate inclusion into cost of revenue.






Though the term ends with the word "revenue", cost of revenue is not a type of income. It represents all of the costs that go into earning revenue.


   Cost of Revenue vs. Cost of Goods Sold  

Cost of revenue is different from cost of goods sold (COGS) because the former also includes costs outside of production, such as distribution and marketing. The cost of revenue takes into account the cost of goods sold (COGS) or cost of services provided plus any additional costs incurred to generate a sale.



Although the cost of revenue factors in many costs associated with sales, it does not take into account the indirect costs, such as salaries paid to managers. The costs considered part of the cost of revenue include a multitude of items, such as the cost of labor, commission, materials, and sales discounts.



When comparing profit measures using a standard formula for profit margins such as those listed in an income statement, creating a profit margin measure based on the cost of revenue would generate a lower value than those typically used by corporations for quarterly reporting. That's because it includes the COGS or cost of services and other direct costs.



The contribution margin includes total variable costs, and the gross margin only includes the COGS or the cost of services. A company with a low cost of revenue to total revenue percentage indicates that it is in stable financial health and may have strong sales.


   Cost of Revenue Example  

Here's a hypothetical example of how the concept of cost of revenue works. Let's assume XYZ Inc. sells electronics products and offers services to repair electronic equipment. The company reports total revenue of $100 million, COGS of $15 million, and cost of services sold of $7 million. The company has direct labor costs of $5 million, marketing expenses of $1 million, and direct overhead costs of $3 million. XYZ also pays $10 million to its management and records rental costs of $8 million.



We can determine from this information that the company's cost of revenue is $31 million for the fiscal period. The $10 million paid to its management and the rental costs of $8 million are indirect costs, which are not included in the cost of revenue. Since the company had total revenue of $100 million, XYZ Inc. has a cost of revenue margin of $100 million ($31 million = $69 million.) Moreover, the company has a cost of revenue to total revenue percentage of 31%, or $31 million divided by $100 million.




What Is Cost of Revenue vs. Operating Expenses?
Operating expenses are often limited to expenses not tied to the manufacturing process. Though some of these costs may still be considered cost of revenue expenses, these are a more indirect type of cost. Cost of revenue is a broader group of expenses with many of the costs tied to the cost of goods sold.




Is Cost of Revenue an Expense?
Yes, cost of revenue is an accumulation of the costs necessary to generate income specific to a product. Be mindful that some aspects of cost of revenue (i.e. returns or warranties) may be reported as contra revenue accounts.




Why Is Cost of Revenue Important?
Cost of revenue is important because it allows a company to best understand all of the costs it incurs to generate income. This goes beyond just the cost of goods sold; this extends to other types of expenses needed to sell and distribute a good. With this knowledge, companies can more strategically deploy capital as they have a better sense of what capital is needed to raise certain amounts of revenue.


   The Bottom Line  

Cost of revenue is the total cost incurred to produce and sell a good. It includes the cost of goods sold in addition to all sorts of other cost sof production. It also includes costs not included in production but needed to deliver or market a product. All of this information is used by a company to better understand the true profit margin of a product.
What Is Cost Per Click (CPC)?  

Cost per click (CPC) is an online advertising revenue model that websites use to bill advertisers based on the number of times visitors click on a display ad attached to their sites.



The primary alternative is the cost per mille (CPM) model, which charges 1,000 ad impressions—or views—of the display ad, regardless of whether or not a viewer clicks on the ad.



The cost-per-click model is also known as pay-per-click (PPC),





Key Takeaways

Websites bill advertisers based on cost per click, which is an online advertising revenue model.Content publishers often use a third-party company to create matches with advertisers.Google's AdSense platform is one of the largest cost per click models.


   Understanding Cost Per Click (CPC)  

Advertisers commonly use cost per click with a set daily budget for a campaign. When the advertiser's budget is reached, the ad is automatically removed from the website's rotation for the remainder of the billing period. For example, a website with a cost-per-click rate of $.10 would bill an advertiser $100 for 1,000 click-throughs.



Most publishers use a third party to match them with advertisers. The largest such entity is Google Ads, which uses a platform called Google AdSense.


  How Much Does a Click Cost?  

A click costs no more than you're willing to pay through a bidding system. For example, you could bid a maximum of $1 per click on Google Ads. The system runs through algorithms that evaluate your ads and charges you no more than your bid. However, there are some caveats.



The Google Ads system applies discounts to advertisers with higher ad Quality Scores. This score is determined by the relevance of the ad and the advertiser's content to the search terms used. You'll also be dinged in the position of your ad the lower you bid, again adjusting for the other factors evaluated by the platform.


   How Is Cost Per Click Calculated?  

A formula may be used to determine the rate you pay per click. One of the most popular ways to calculate your CPC is:



Advertising Campaign Cost / Number of Clicks



Some publishers or platforms like Google Ads use a bidding process to set their rates. For instance, Google Ads asks you to select the maximum amount you're willing to pay per click. Google's platform then uses Ad Rank thresholds to determine the actual cost when your ad is clicked.



This means your cost varies up to your maximum because the platform ranks your bid, ad quality, position, user signals, search topics, and related auctions and sets the cost per click. You can even have Google automate the bids for you to increase your click-through.



The platform then positions your ad based on your maximum amount, with higher maximums achieving a higher placement on the page.


   How to Lower Cost Per Click  

Because advertising can become very expensive when paying by clicks, you need to have a plan to keep from paying too much per click. This means researching and creating a strategy with keywords to raise your Quality Score, a large measure of how your ads compete with others.


  Raise Your Quality Score  

Your Quality Score is crucial to increasing your clicks and decreasing your costs. You can improve your Quality Score by making adjustments to your:



Expected clickthrough rate: You can edit the ad to make it more appealing to your targeted consumer base, highlight features and benefits, and above all, ensure your ad details match your keywords.
Ad relevance: Your ad should appeal to your audience and their search intent. Look at search results for different phrases and analyze the results.
Landing page experience: Landing pages should be relevant to the audience that clicks the ad. For instance, an advertisement for a widget shouldn't lead to a landing page featuring gadgets. Additionally, the speed of your landing page loads should be fast enough on mobile devices and computers so that potential customers don't need to wait.


  Keyword Research  

Keywords drive internet searches, so it makes sense to ensure you have keywords in your ads that lead people to your website. Some techniques you can try are:



Targeting: You should try to target your audience by matching your ad text with what they are searching for.Splitting: You can split your ads into groups with different keywords and match them to other searches.Grouping: Grouping involves creating themes for your products and services, which you then make group names for and use keywords that match searches. For instance, if you are marketing headphones, you could group them into over-the-ear and in-ear headphones and target your audience with matching keywords.


   Cost Per Click Alternatives  

There are plenty of alternatives to Google AdSense, including Media.net, Infolinks, Amazon Advertising, and Bidvertiser, to name a few.



Some specialize in small or large publishers, and some offer a better deal than Google AdSense to stay competitive.



Amazon Advertising is designed to allow Amazon website affiliates to place ads that reach shoppers on and off the website when searching for specific products.



Meta Ads Manager allows advertisers to run campaigns on Facebook and Instagram.


   CPC vs. CPM  

In the print world, advertisers choose publications that match their customer profiles and place ads in them. They pay more for bigger ads and more prominent placement, but the effectiveness of those ads can usually only be implied by tracking before-and-after sales numbers. Coupons and contests are among the strategies that help them track their ads' effectiveness better.



In the online world, advertisers know how many people are at least interested enough to click on their ads. That has led to two of the primary ways to reach consumers through web advertising:



Cost per mille (CPM) or cost per thousand is a pricing model that charges advertisers for the number of times their ads were displayed to a consumer.CPC charges advertisers only for the number of times a consumer clicks on their ads to get further information on a product.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of CPC Advertising  



Pros

Higher value
Drives website traffic



Cons

More expensive than CPM
Prices vary widely
Less effective for brand and product awareness





  Pros Explained  

Higher value: Cost-per-click advertising is more highly valued than CPM advertising because it indicates that an ad has gotten a prospective customer to take the first step towards taking action, whether it is making a purchase or getting more information.Drives website traffic: Cost per click is generally considered more effective because it drives traffic to the advertiser's site.


  Cons Explained  

More expensive: CPC is more costly than CPM
Prices vary widely: Because prices vary due to other factors, you may pay less or more depending on your Quality Score, bidding, sponsorship, and other factors.
Less effective for brand and product awareness: CPM is better for brand recognition and product awareness, assuming that page visitors at least see the logo and, however unconsciously, absorb the message.




What Does Cost Per Click Mean?
Cost per click is how much it costs you when a propective customer clicks on your ad.




How Do You Calculate Cost Per Click?
Cost per click is generally calculated by dividing the overall cost of your ads by the number of clicks your ads received.




What Is CPC and CPM?
Cost per click is a measurement of the amount of money you pay when a consumer clicks your ads, and cost per mille is the cost you pay per 1,000 ad impressions—or 1,000 loads of a page with your ad on it.




Why Is Cost Per Click Important?
Cost per click is significant because it shows you how much you're paying for your advertising and how effective your campaign is.


   The Bottom Line  

Demographic targeting of advertising was created offline, primarily by the print magazine industry. It allowed advertisers to choose a specialty magazine that reached the audience that was most likely to be interested in their product.



The cost-per-click advertising model emerged with the internet. It added an actionable element in the ability to immediately click on a link to get more information, place an order, claim a coupon, or download an app.



The software for creating ads and buying ad space is growing increasingly sophisticated. However, the primary concern of advertisers in using either the cost-per-click or cost-per-impression models is accuracy in reporting the actual numbers that the ad reaches.
What Does Cost Per Thousand (CPM) Mean?  

Cost per thousand (CPM) is a marketing term used to denote the price of 1,000 advertisement impressions on one web page. CPM is a metric that helps companies measure how efficient their advertising is by telling them how much money is paid for a single click on a website ad. For instance, an advertiser must pay $2 for every 1,000 impressions of its ad if a website publisher charges $2 CPM.





Key Takeaways

Cost per thousand is a marketing term that refers to the cost an advertiser pays per 1,000 advertisement impressions on a web page. An impression is a metric that counts the number of ad views or viewer engagements that an advertisement receives.CPM is one of several methods used to price online ads. Other methods include cost per click and cost per acquisition.CPM may lead to the incorrect counting of impressions due to duplicate views, ads that fail to load, and advertising fraud.







What Is Cost Per Thousand?


   Understanding Cost Per Thousand (CPM)  

Companies traditionally had only a few options to advertise their products and services—notably, through print, radio, and television. Over time, these options grew to include various types of online advertising. As such, there are a number of metrics to determine how well their advertising works. One of these is known as cost per thousand.



Cost per thousand is the most common method for pricing web ads in digital marketing. This method relies on impressions, which is a metric that counts the number of digital views or engagements for a particular advertisement. Impressions also are known as ad views. Advertisers pay website owners a set fee for every 1,000 impressions of an ad. An impression measures how many times an ad was displayed on a site, but it doesn't measure whether an ad was clicked on.



The click-through rate (CTR) measures whether an ad was clicked on, representing the percentage of people who saw the ad and acted on it. Advertisers frequently measure the success of a CPM campaign by its CTR. An advertisement that receives two clicks for every 100 impressions has a 2% CTR. But you can't measure an advertisement's success by CTR alone because an ad that a reader views but doesn't click still may have an impact.






The M in CPM represents the word mille, which is Latin for thousands. As such, the term is formally known as cost per mille.


   Special Considerations  

There can be confusion between two very important social media terms: impressions and views. The term impression refers to the presence of an ad or other content on a social media user's screen. A view, on the other hand, refers to the time a user engages with any digital content like a video.



The number of ad impressions can differ from the number of visitors to the website displaying the ad. An ad might receive placement in two locations on a website, such as a horizontal banner across the top of the page and a vertical side banner beside the page's text. The advertiser pays for two impressions per page view in this scenario.



Website publishers like CPM advertising because they're paid for just displaying ads. In some cases, a website needs robust traffic to make decent money from CPM ads because CPM rates are relatively low.






Companies focused less on mass appeal and more on promoting a product to a niche audience gravitate toward CPC or CPA advertising because they have to pay only when visitors click through to their sites or purchase the advertised products.


   Cost Per Thousand (CPM) vs. Cost Per Click (CPC) vs. Cost Per Acquisition (CPA)  

CPM represents one of several methods used to price website ads. This is where other metrics can come in handy. These include:



Cost-per-click (CPC): An advertiser pays each time a website visitor clicks on the ad. Cost per click is also known as pay per click.
Cost per acquisition (CPA): The advertiser pays each time a website visitor completes a desired action, such as a view, follow, post, or other similar transaction that allows the company to acquire a new customer. This metric is also called the cost per action.



Different pricing methods are more appropriate for some ad campaigns than others like the ones mentioned above. CPM makes the most sense for a campaign focused on heightening brand awareness or delivering a specific message. The click-through rate matters less in this case because the exposure from having a prominent ad on a high-traffic website helps promote a company's brand name or message, even if visitors don't click on the ad.



Rates for social media advertising tend to be higher and can vary depending on the platform. The following is a list of average social media advertising costs on different social media sites:












Average CPM and CPC Rates on Social Media in 2023




 
Facebook
X (formerly Twitter)
Instagram
YouTube


CPM
$7.19 
$6.46
$7.91
$9.68


CPC 
$0.97
$0.38 
$3.56
$3.21



Source: Web FX




What Affects a CPM Rate?
Numerous factors can affect a CPM rate. It can be swayed by the time of year or the season because holidays can influence impressions, increasing or decreasing them depending on the product or service being pitched. Other factors include supply and demand, ad format, and the platform and its audience.




How Can I Increase My CPM Rate?
Enticing viewers to access your content is key to increasing your CPM rate because you can raise it in proportion to the growing size of your audience. Making sure your metadata is relevant to your content can be a good place to start.




What Can Lower a CPM Rate?
Your CPM rate is logically influenced by bots and fake views of your site. These issues make it less valuable and attractive to your advertisers, and your rate will have to adjust to accommodate them. Avoid boosting your impressions with spam content.


   The Bottom Line  

Critics of CPM often say there are challenges in accurately counting impressions. As such, there are some advertisers who question whether they're being charged fairly. Problems arise regarding duplicate views from the same visitor or from Internet bots visiting sites and skewing the total number of views. These ads should not be counted as impressions if they fail to load or incompletely load. Advertising or click fraud also can happen when an unscrupulous site owner uses automated scripts to send traffic to a website with the purpose of increasing the number of views.
What Is a Cost-Plus Contract?  

A cost-plus contract is an agreement to reimburse a company for expenses incurred plus a specific amount of profit, usually stated as a percentage of the contract’s full price. These type of contracts are primarily used in construction where the buyer assumes some of the risk but also provides a degree of flexibility to the contractor. In such a case, the party drawing up the contract anticipates that the contractor will make good on their promises to deliver, and agrees to pay extra so that the contractor can make additional profit upon completion.



Cost-plus contracts can be contrasted with fixed-cost contracts, in which two parties agree up front to a specific cost regardless of the actual expenses incurred by the contractor. Cost-plus contracts may also be known as cost-reimbursement contracts.





Key Takeaways

In a cost-plus contract, one party agrees to reimburse the contracting party for expenses plus a specified profit proportional to the full value of the contract.Cost-plus contracts are often used in construction when the budget is restricted or when there is a high probability that actual costs might be less than anticipated.Contractors must provide proof of all related expenses, including direct and indirect costs.


   Understanding Cost-Plus Contracts  

Cost-plus contracts are generally used if the party drawing up the contract has budgetary restrictions or if the overall scope of the work can't be properly estimated in advance.



In construction, cost-plus contracts are drawn up so contractors can be reimbursed for almost every expense actually incurred on a project. The cost-plus contract pays the builder for direct costs and indirect or overhead costs. All expenses must be supported by documentation of the contractor’s spending in the form of invoices or receipts. The contract moreover allows the contractor to collect a certain amount above the reimbursed amount, so they may be able to make a profit—hence, the "plus" in cost-plus contracts.



Some contracts may limit the amount of reimbursement, so not every expense would be covered. This is especially true if the contractor makes an error during the course of the project or is found to be negligent in any part of the construction.



Cost-plus contracts are also used in research and development (R&D) activities, where a larger company may outsource R&D activities to a smaller firm, such as large pharmaceutical company contracting to the lab of a small biotech company. The U.S. government also uses cost-plus contracts with military defense companies that develop new technologies for national defense.






Governments generally prefer cost-plus contracts because they can choose the most qualified contractors instead of the lowest bidder.


   Types of Cost-Plus Contracts  

Cost-plus contracts can be separated into four categories. They each allow for the reimbursement of costs as well as an additional amount for profit:



Cost-plus award fee contracts allow the contractor to be awarded a fee usually for good performance.Cost-plus fixed-fee contracts cover both direct and indirect costs, in addition to a fixed fee.Cost-plus incentive fee contracts happen when the contractor is given a fee if their performance meets or exceeds expectations.Cost-plus percent-of-cost contracts allow the amount of reimbursement to rise if the contractor's costs rise.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Cost-Plus Contracts  

The pros and cons of using these types of contracts include the following:





Pros

They eliminate some risk for the contractor.
They allow the focus to shift from the overall cost to the quality of work being done.
They cover all the expenses related to the project, so there are no surprises.



Cons

They may leave the final cost up in the air since they can't be predetermined.
They may lead to a longer timeline for the project.
Might lead to disputes when trying to recover construction-related expenses
Requires additional resources to reproduce and justify all related costs





   Example of How a Cost-Plus Contract Works  

Assume ABC Construction Corp. has a contract to build a $20 million office building, and the agreement states that costs cannot exceed $22 million. ABC’s profit is agreed at 15% of the contract’s full price of $3 million. Additionally, ABC Construction is eligible for an incentive fee if the project is completed within nine months.



ABC must submit dated receipts for all expenses, and the client will inspect the job site for quality to verify that specific components are completed to specification such as the plumbing, electrical, fixtures, etc. The contract allows ABC to incur direct costs such as materials, labor, and costs incurred to hire subcontractors. ABC can also bill indirect, or overhead, costs, which include insurance, security, and safety. The contract states that overhead costs are billed at $50 per labor-hour.


  Special Consideration: Percentage of Completion in a Cost-Plus Contract  

The above project uses the percentage of completion process to account for-profit and to submit bills to the client, and the contract provides specific percentages for billing.



Assume, for example, that ABC can bill for 20% of the full contract price once 20% of the materials are purchased, and the client verifies the concrete foundation is in place. At that point, ABC sends an invoice for 20% of the $20-million contract at $4 million, and posts 20% of the firm’s profit, or $600,000, to the financial statements.
What Is Cost-Push Inflation?  

Cost-push inflation (also known as wage-push inflation) occurs when overall prices increase (inflation) due to increases in the cost of wages and raw materials. Higher costs of production can decrease the aggregate supply (the amount of total production) in the economy. Since the demand for goods hasn't changed, the price increases from production are passed onto consumers creating cost-push inflation.



Cost-push inflation can be compared with demand-pull inflation.





Key Takeaways

Cost-push inflation occurs when overall prices increase (inflation) due to increases in the cost of wages and raw materials. Cost-push inflation can occur when higher costs of production decrease the aggregate supply (the amount of total production) in the economy. Since the demand for goods hasn't changed, the price increases from production are passed onto consumers creating cost-push inflation.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Understanding Cost-Push Inflation  

Inflation is a measure of the rate of price increases in an economy for a basket of selected goods and services. Inflation can erode a consumer's purchasing power if wages haven't increased enough or kept up with rising prices. If a company's production costs rise, the company's executive management might try to pass the additional costs onto consumers by raising the prices for their products. If the company doesn't raise prices, while production costs increase, the company's profits will decrease.



The most common cause of cost-push inflation starts with an increase in the cost of production, which may be expected or unexpected. For example, the cost of raw materials or inventory used in production might increase, leading to higher costs.



For cost-push inflation to take place, demand for the affected product must remain constant during the time the production cost changes are occurring. To compensate for the increased cost of production, producers raise the price to the consumer to maintain profit levels while keeping pace with expected demand.


   Causes of Cost-Push Inflation  

As stated earlier, an increase in the cost of input goods used in manufacturing, such as raw materials. For example, if companies use copper in the manufacturing process and the price of the metal suddenly rises, companies might pass those increased costs on to their customers.



Increased labor costs can create cost-push inflation such as when mandatory wage increases for production employees due to an increase in the minimum wage per worker. A worker strike due to stalled contract negotiations might also lead to a decline in production; and as a result, lead to higher prices.



Unexpected causes of cost-push inflation are often natural disasters, which can include floods, earthquakes, fires, or tornadoes. If a large disaster causes unexpected damage to a production facility and results in a shutdown or partial disruption of the production chain, higher production costs are likely to follow. A company might have no choice but to increase prices to help recoup some of the losses from a disaster. Although not all natural disasters result in higher production costs and therefore, wouldn't lead to cost-push inflation.



Other events might qualify if they lead to higher production costs, such as a sudden change in government that affects the country’s ability to maintain its previous output. However, government-induced increases in production costs are more often seen in developing nations.



Government regulations and changes in current laws, although usually anticipated, may cause costs to rise for businesses because they have no way to compensate for the increased costs associated with them. For example, the government might mandate that healthcare be provided, driving up the cost of employees or labor.


   Cost-Push vs. Demand-Pull  

Rising prices caused by consumers wanting more goods is called demand-pull inflation. Demand-pull inflation includes times when an increase in demand is so great that production can't keep up, which typically results in higher prices. In short, cost-push inflation is driven by supply costs while demand-pull inflation is driven by consumer demand—while both lead to higher prices passed onto consumers.


   Example of Cost-Push Inflation  

The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) is a cartel that consists of 13 member countries that both produce and export oil. In the early 1970s, due to geopolitical events, OPEC imposed an oil embargo on the United States and other countries. OPEC banned oil exports to targeted countries and also imposed oil production cuts.



What followed was a supply shock and a quadrupling of the price of oil from approximately $3 to $12 per barrel. Cost-push inflation ensued since there was no increase in demand for the commodity. The impact of the supply cut led to a surge in gas prices as well as higher production costs for companies that used petroleum products. 




What Causes Inflation?
Inflation, or a general rise in prices, is thought to occur for several reasons, and the exact reasons are still debated by economists. Monetarist theories suggest that the money supply is the root of inflation, where more money in an economy leads to higher prices. Cost-push inflation theorizes that as costs to producers increase from things like rising wages, these higher costs are passed on to consumers. Demand-pull inflation takes the position that prices rise when aggregate demand exceeds the supply of available goods for sustained periods of time.




Is Inflation Always Bad?
In theory, a low amount of inflation can be a healthy sign of a growing economy. High inflation, however, can be damaging (but deflation, or declining prices, can be too). Note that inflation isn't always bad for certain groups of people. For example, borrowers at fixed interest rates tend to benefit from inflation while lenders and savers are hurt by it.




What Is the Wage-Price Spiral?
The wage-price spiral is a take on cost-push inflation argues that as wages rise, it creates more demand, which leads to higher prices. These higher prices thus incentivize workers to demand even higher wages, and so the cycle repeats.
What Is Cost-Volume-Profit (CVP) Analysis?  

Cost-volume-profit (CVP) analysis is a method of cost accounting that looks at the impact that varying levels of costs and volume have on operating profit.





Key Takeaways

Cost-volume-profit (CVP) analysis is a way to find out how changes in variable and fixed costs affect a firm's profit.Companies can use CVP to see how many units they need to sell to break even (cover all costs) or reach a certain minimum profit margin.CVP analysis makes several assumptions, including that the sales price, fixed, and variable costs per unit are constant. 












Investopedia / Daniel Fishel


   Understanding Cost-Volume-Profit (CVP) Analysis  

The cost-volume-profit analysis, also commonly known as breakeven analysis, looks to determine the breakeven point for different sales volumes and cost structures, which can be useful for managers making short-term business decisions. CVP analysis makes several assumptions, including that the sales price, fixed and variable costs per unit are constant. Running a CVP analysis involves using several equations for price, cost, and other variables, which it then plots out on an economic graph.



The CVP formula can also calculate the breakeven point. The breakeven point is the number of units that need to be sold or the amount of sales revenue that has to be generated in order to cover the costs required to make the product. The CVP breakeven sales volume formula is:


















Breakeven Sales Volume


=




F


C




C


M


















where:
















F


C


=


Fixed costs
















C


M


=


Contribution margin


=


Sales


−


Variable Costs







\begin{aligned} &\text{Breakeven Sales Volume}=\frac{FC}{CM} \\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &FC=\text{Fixed costs}\\ &CM=\text{Contribution margin} = \text{Sales} - \text{Variable Costs}\\ \end{aligned}


​Breakeven Sales Volume=CMFC​where:FC=Fixed costsCM=Contribution margin=Sales−Variable Costs​



To use the above formula to find a company's target sales volume, simply add a target profit amount per unit to the fixed-cost component of the formula. This allows you to solve for the target volume based on the assumptions used in the model.



CVP analysis also manages product contribution margin. The contribution margin is the difference between total sales and total variable costs. For a business to be profitable, the contribution margin must exceed total fixed costs. The contribution margin may also be calculated per unit. The unit contribution margin is simply the remainder after the unit variable cost is subtracted from the unit sales price. The contribution margin ratio is determined by dividing the contribution margin by total sales.



The contribution margin is used to determine the breakeven point of sales. By dividing the total fixed costs by the contribution margin ratio, the breakeven point of sales in terms of total dollars may be calculated. For example, a company with $100,000 of fixed costs and a contribution margin of 40% must earn revenue of $250,000 to break even.



Profit may be added to the fixed costs to perform CVP analysis on the desired outcome. For example, if the previous company desired a profit of $50,000, the necessary total sales revenue is found by dividing $150,000 (the sum of fixed costs and desired profit) by the contribution margin of 40%. This example yields a required sales revenue of $375,000.


   Special Considerations  

CVP analysis is only reliable if costs are fixed within a specified production level. All units produced are assumed to be sold, and all fixed costs must be stable in CVP analysis. Another assumption is all changes in expenses occur because of changes in activity level. Semi-variable expenses must be split between expense classifications using the high-low method, scatter plot, or statistical regression.




How Is Cost-Volume-Profit (CVP) Analysis Used?
Cost-volume-profit analysis is used to determine whether there is an economic justification for a product to be manufactured. A target profit margin is added to the breakeven sales volume, which is the number of units that need to be sold in order to cover the costs required to make the product and arrive at the target sales volume needed to generate the desired profit. The decision maker could then compare the product's sales projections to the target sales volume to see if it is worth manufacturing.




What Assumptions Does Cost-Volume-Profit (CVP) Analysis Make?
The reliability of CVP lies in the assumptions it makes, including that the sales price and the fixed and variable cost per unit are constant. The costs are fixed within a specified production level. All units produced are assumed to be sold, and all fixed costs must be stable. Another assumption is all changes in expenses occur because of changes in activity level. Semi-variable expenses must be split between expense classifications using the high-low method, scatter plot, or statistical regression.




What Is Contribution Margin?
The contribution margin can be stated on a gross or per-unit basis. It represents the incremental money generated for each product/unit sold after deducting the variable portion of the firm's costs. Basically, it shows the portion of sales that helps to cover the company's fixed costs. Any remaining revenue left after covering fixed costs is the profit generated. So, for a business to be profitable, the contribution margin must exceed total fixed costs.
What Is a Cottage Industry?  

A cottage industry is a small manufacturing business that is owned and operated by an individual or a family, typically operating out of a home rather than a purpose-built facility.



Cottage industries are defined by the small amount of investment that is required to start one. They often focus on producing labor-intensive goods but face a significant disadvantage when competing with factory-based manufacturers of mass-produced goods.





Key Takeaways

A cottage industry is a small manufacturing operation and is often run out of a home by a single individual or family.Cottage industries can be an important source of income in rural areas where jobs are scarce.In developing countries, cottage industries are playing a significant role in lifting people out of poverty.In advanced economies, cottage industries produce handmade goods that are prized for their traditional craftsmanship.


   How Cottage Industries Work  

The first cottage industries in the U.S. and Europe were light manufacturing operations engaged in subcontracted work including garment-making, textiles, or sewing, as well as shoemaking and small metal machine parts.



In many cases, these cottage industries produced finished goods using raw materials supplied by the contract provider. In the developed world, many contemporary industries that currently operate in factories replaced cottage industries that thrived before the Industrial Revolution.



Modern cottage industries serve a consumer market that seeks out original, handcrafted products as an alternative to mass-produced, name-brand products. These can include anything from clothing items to crafts to decorative home furnishings.


   Cottage Industries in Developing Countries  

Cottage industries play a significant role in the economies of developing countries. They require very small investments to get off the ground.



Developing nations have comparative advantages in creating successful cottage industries. Their lower cost of living makes it feasible to produce labor-intensive goods at competitive prices, allowing a small business to make a sufficient profit.



Some cottage industries grow over time and employ others in the community. Because their products tend to be handcrafted using traditional tools and machinery, their productivity is unlikely to rival in sheer volume the products of mass manufacturing.



Cottage industries also are an important source of supplemental income in rural areas. When the growing season ends, some farmers turn to their cottage industries to produce income. In villages, a cottage industry can grow over time as local residents come together to produce crafts for sale in local markets or even for export abroad.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Cottage Industries  

Cottage industries can thrive if their operators are content to remain small producers in a niche market, working for the benefit of a single family. Business growth is possible but there are significant barries.


  Advantages  

A cottage industry can be created by a single individual with a skill that is valued. There are minimal startup costs.



Only basic infrastructure is needed. The business operator needs a way to receive orders, get supplies delivered, and get the end products to the buyers. Mobile technology has greatly improved the ability of cottage industries to operate.



Even in modern times, cottage industries are creating opportunities for people in remote rural areas to improve their living standards.


  Disadvantages  

When cottage industries remain small, they have to compete with larger producers with deeper pockets. This may require them to adopt new technologies that improve productivity.



If they grow, they also have to compete for labor. This can be increasingly difficult as a country becomes more developed and wages increase.




Cottage Industries in Modern Times

Pros

Minimal startup costs
Low overhead
Opportunity for rural dwellers



Cons

Reliant on basic infrastructure to get products to market
Inability to ramp up production to meet demand
Competition from larger producers









In the U.S. and Europe, products created by cottage industries can often be found at flea markets and farmers' markets.


   Example of a Cottage Industry  

Niche markets that don't appeal to big producers can be an ideal fit for cottage industries.



Competitive dancers, figure skaters, and other performers often wear original, handmade costumes. At the lowest levels of youth competition, parents might make costumes for their children. As performers rise to higher levels of competition, the demand for costumes of higher quality grows, creating opportunities for the most highly skilled costume designers to fill the demand.



Designers who began by creating costumes for their own children and maybe a few others can end up creating a cottage industry for themselves.




Why Are They Called 'Cottage Industries?'
Cottage industries may be the original remote work system. Before the Industrial Revolution, they opened a way for people living in rural areas to make a living doing labor-intensive jobs like spinning wool, tanning leather, and sewing clothing. In modern terminology, they were often subcontractors, finishing goods and sending them on to businesses that packaged them for shipment to suppliers and retailers.In Europe and America, this work really was mostly done in cottages, primarily by women who did not have access to other trades and professions.




What Are Some Modern Cottage Industries?
Take a look at Etsy or Amazon Handmade for a comprehensive overview of the thousands of handmade products being created by skilled artisans working independently. Most are modern cottage industries.This is, of course, going on all over the world, with many artisans focusing on traditional local skills. In India, the top cottage industries are silk weaving, carpet making, leatherworking, metalworking, and specialty food processing.




Are Cottage Industries Scalable?
Cottage industries are generally not scalable by definition. That is, if they scale up, they are no longer cottage industries.The definition of success is different. Most cottage industries are intended to provide a decent income for a single individual or family.There is the occasional breakout star, like Burt's Bees, which got its start when a fed-up photojournalist decided to move to rural Maine and become a beekeeper. But even Burt needed a partner with bigger ambitions.


   The Bottom Line  

Cottage industries thrived in the pre-Industrial ages when people in remote areas were able to make a living, though hardly an easy one, by creating labor-intensive products for larger businesses.



They appear to be thriving in modern times as well as niche businesses pop up in homes all over the world to serve the demand for high-quality hand craftsmanship.
What Is a Counteroffer?  

A counteroffer is a response given to an initial offer. A counteroffer means the original offer was rejected and replaced with another one. The counteroffer gives the original offeror three options: accept the counteroffer, reject it, or make another offer.



Counteroffers are prevalent in many types of business negotiations, transactions, contracts, and private and public deals between two individuals or two entities. You may find them in real estate deals, employment negotiations, car sales, private placements, mergers acquisitions, takeovers, etc.





Key Takeaways

A counteroffer is the response given to an offer, meaning the original offer was rejected and replaced with another one.Counteroffers give the original offerer three options: accept it, reject it, or make another offer and continue negotiations.Parties are not obligated by a contract until one accepts the other's offer. Counteroffers are common in business negotiations and transactions, such as real estate deals, car sales, and employment contracts.


   Understanding Counteroffers  

When two parties get together to negotiate a transaction or business deal, one may put an offer on the table. A counteroffer is a reply to that original offer and may change the terms of the deal, including the price. The price may be greater or less than what was originally quoted depending on who makes it. So if the person receiving the original offer doesn't accept or reject it, they may decide to renegotiate with a counteroffer.



For example, Ms. X decides to put her house on the market for $300,000. Mr. Y views it and makes an offer of $285,000 instead. Ms. X decides to make a counteroffer of $295,000 instead, thus putting the onus on Mr. Y to accept, reject, or counter that offer and continue negotiations again.



There is no limit to the number of times each party can counter during negotiations. When countering back and forth, each offer should present a price less than the previous offer. This conveys to the seller that the buyer is nearing the final offer.



Neither party is obligated to settle until they agree on a contract, which occurs once the counteroffer is accepted. This is when a binding contract is formed. The contract is enforceable against either party. The counteroffer voids a previous offer, and the entity that presented that offer is no longer legally responsible for it.






When negotiating, never let emotions affect negotiations—instead, ask questions, do your research, and ask for additional time to consider the new offer.


   Terms of a Counteroffer  

A counteroffer may include explanations of the terms of the offer or requests for supplementary information. Finalizing counteroffer negotiations requires the buyer and offeror to accept the terms without any additional conditions or modifications.



A counteroffer is generally conditional. When the seller receives a low offer, the seller can counter with a price that is deemed reasonable. The buyer can either accept that offer or counter again. The seller can counter the offer. The person receiving the counteroffer does not have to accept it.


   Employer Counteroffers  

If you propose employment terms like a desired salary figure and the potential employer comes back with a counteroffer that is lower, there are a few strategies one can employ. You can often get a handle on how much an employer desires you for your knowledge, skills, and experience as well as how much they like you as an individual and potential team member. Body language, tone of voice, and phrasing can all help you make a more informed decision on how to handle a counteroffer effectively.



The first strategy is to simply take the counteroffer and accept the lower salary. If you think you were highballing your offer or if you really do not want to risk losing your dream job over tough negotiations, you may want to consider the counteroffer as good enough.



The opposite strategy is to stick to your guns. Stand firm and decline the counteroffer by reiterating your original offer or terms. While it does not have to be framed as a take-it-or-leave-it, the employer will know where your salary requirements are and, if they really want you, may decide to pay up.



In between these two is to meet their counteroffer in the middle. This may begin a series of back-and-forth negotiations that arrive at fair terms for all parties involved.



A counteroffer may also be proposed to you by your current employer if they know that you are looking to leave and received an offer elsewhere. You can use these same tactics to respond to this counteroffer and can even use it as leverage with the potential new employer, although you can risk overplaying your hand.






If you have received an offer already elsewhere, don’t assume that another company will be willing to match that offer. Although it is always safer to begin tough negotiations if you yourself know that the other offer is a fallback.


   Examples of Counteroffer  

For example, a seller wants to sell a vehicle for $20,000. A buyer arrives and offers $15,000 for the vehicle. The offeror provides a counteroffer, asking for $16,000 with the objective of obtaining a higher price.



If the offeree declines, the offeror cannot force the buyer to purchase the vehicle at $15,000, even though the buyer suggested that price.


  A Counteroffer at the Workplace  

Say that you are interviewing for a company that you are not really so sure you want to work at, as you like your current job but want higher pay and more time off. The new company offers you 10% higher pay and 5 extra vacation days.



You tell your current employer what you now have on the table and ask them for 20% and 10 days. The employer makes a counteroffer at 15% pay and a week off, take-it-or-leave it.




Should You Ever Take a Counteroffer?
Yes, if the counteroffer is agreeable and will close the deal. However, a counteroffer that doesn't live up to all of your requirements may not be the best course of action. Moreover, taking a counteroffer can tarnish your reputation with your current employer.




How Do I Reject a Counteroffer?
If you decide to turn down a counteroffer, do so respectfully and graciously. It is helpful to explain your reasons for declining the offer in a short but honest way. You may provide a referral to another potential candidate to fill your role and try to leave on good terms.




Should I Accept the First Salary I'm Offered?
In most cases, it is acceptable to try and negotiate. If you do not succeed, it is unlikely that you will lose the first offer altogether. Moreover, many companies these days expect some degree of negotiation and therefore start with lower offers than they are willing to make.


   The Bottom Line  

A counteroffer can be used in one of two ways in business: the first is when negotiating the price for something such as a purchase or even a corporate takeover. Here, an initial offer is declined but met with a lower counteroffer. There may be a back-and-forth until an agreed-upon price is reached. In the world of employment, a counteroffer can refer to an offer made by your current employer to keep you working there after you have received an offer elsewhere.
What Is a Counterparty?  

A counterparty is the other party that participates in a financial transaction. Every transaction must have a counterparty in order for the transaction to go through. More specifically, every buyer of an asset must be paired up with a seller who is willing to sell and vice versa. For example, the counterparty to an option buyer would be an option writer. For any complete trade, several counterparties may be involved (for instance a buy of 1,000 shares is filled by 10 sellers of 100 shares each).





Key Takeaways

A counterparty is simply the other side of a trade—a buyer is the counterparty to a seller.A counterparty can include deals between individuals, businesses, governments, or any other organization.Counterparty risk is the risk that the other side of the trade will be unable to fulfill their end of the transaction.In many financial transactions, the counterparty is unknown and the counterparty risk is mitigated through the use of clearing firms.


   Understanding Counterparties  

The term counterparty can refer to any entity on the other side of a financial transaction. This can include deals between individuals, businesses, governments, or any other organization.



Additionally, both parties do not have to be of equal standing. This means an individual can be a counterparty to a business and vice versa. In any instances where a general contract is met or an exchange agreement takes place, one party would be considered the counterparty, or the parties are counterparties to each other. This also applies to forward contracts and other contract types.



A counterparty introduces counterparty risk into the equation. This is the risk that the counterparty will be unable to fulfill their end of the transaction.



However, in many financial transactions, the counterparty is unknown and the counterparty risk is mitigated through the use of clearing firms. In fact, with typical exchange trading, we do not ever know who our counterparty is on any trade, and often times there will be several counterparties, each making up a piece of the trade.






Both parties do not have to be of equal standing—an individual can be a counterparty to a business and vice versa.


   Counterparty Examples  

In the case of a purchase of goods from a retail store, the buyer and retailer are counterparties in the transaction. In terms of financial markets, the bond seller and bond buyer are counterparties.



In certain situations, multiple counterparties may exist as a transaction progresses. Each exchange of funds, goods, or services in order to complete a transaction can be considered as a series of counterparties. For example, if a buyer purchases a retail product online to be shipped to their home, the buyer and retailer are counterparties, as are the buyer and the delivery service.



In a general sense, any time one party supplies funds, or items of value, in exchange for something from a second party, counterparties exist. Counterparties reflect the dual-sided nature of transactions.


   Types of Counterparties  

Counterparties in a trade can be classified in several ways. Having an idea of your potential counterparty in a given environment can provide insights into how the market is likely to act based on your presence/orders/transactions and other similar style traders. Here are just a few prime examples:



Retail traders: These are ordinary individual investors or other nonprofessional traders. They may be trading through an online broker like E-Trade or a voice broker like Charles Schwab. Often, retail traders are seen as desirable counterparties since they are assumed to be less informed, have less sophisticated trading tools, and are willing to buy at the offer and sell at the bid.
Market makers: These participants' main function is to provide liquidity to the market, yet they also attempt to profit from the market. They have massive market clout, and will often be a substantial portion of the visible bids and offers displayed on the books. Profits are made by providing liquidity and collecting ECN rebates as well as moving the market for capital gains when circumstances dictate a profit may be capturable.
Liquidity traders: These are non–market makers who generally have very low fees and capture daily profits by adding liquidity and capturing the ECN credits. As with market makers, they may also make capital gains by being filled on the bid (offer) and then posting orders on the offer (bid) at the inside price or outside the current market price. These traders may still have market clout, but less so than market makers.
Technical traders: In almost any market, there will be traders who trade based on chart levels, whether from market indicators, support and resistance, trend lines, or chart patterns. These traders watch for certain conditions to arise before stepping into a position; in this way, it is likely they can more accurately define the risks and rewards of a particular trade. At commonly known technical levels, the liquidity traders and designated market makers may become technical traders, although not always in the way expected—designated market makers may falsely trigger technical levels knowing large groups of traders will be affected, thus churning large amounts of shares.
Momentum traders: There are different types of momentum traders. Some will stay with a momentum stock for multiple days (even though they only trade it intraday), while others will screen for "stocks on the move," constantly attempting to capture quick sharp movements in stocks during news events, volume, or price spikes. These traders typically exit when the movement is showing signs of slowing—this type of strategy demands controlled decision-making, requiring a continual refinement of entry and exit techniques.
Arbitrageurs: Using multiple assets, markets, and statistical tools, these traders attempt to exploit inefficiencies in the market or across markets. These traders may be small or large, although certain types of arbitrage trading will require large amounts of buying power to fully capitalize on inefficiencies. Other types of "arbitrage" may be accessible to smaller traders such as when dealing with highly correlated instruments and short-term deviations from the correlation threshold.


   Counterparty Risk  

In dealings with a counterparty, there is an innate risk that one of the people or entities involved will not fulfill their obligation. This is especially true for over-the-counter (OTC) transactions. Examples of this include the risk that a vendor will not provide a good or service after the payment is processed, or that a buyer will not pay an obligation if the goods are provided first. It can also include the risk that one party will back out of the deal before the transaction occurs but after an initial agreement is reached.



For structured markets, such as the stock or futures markets, financial counterparty risk is mitigated by the clearing houses and exchanges. When you buy a stock, you don't need to worry about the financial viability of the person on the other side of the transaction. The clearing house or exchange steps up as the counterparty, guaranteeing the stocks you bought or the funds you expect from a sale.



Counterparty risk gained greater visibility in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis. AIG famously leveraged its AAA credit rating to sell (write) credit default swaps (CDS) to counterparties who wanted default protection (in many cases, on collateralized debt obligation (CDO) tranches). When AIG could not post additional collateral and was required to provide funds to counterparties in the face of deteriorating reference obligations, the U.S. government bailed it out.




What Does Counterparty Mean?
A counterparty is simply the other participant in a transaction—for every buyer, there is a seller. Every transaction requires at least two parties, whether it be buying stocks or purchasing groceries at a local supermarket.




What Is Counterparty Risk?
Counterparty risk is the risk that the other party in the transaction will not honor the agreement and fulfill its side of the deal. Fortunately, in financial markets this often isn’t an issue as counterparty risk is transferred to clearinghouses.




Who Is the Counterparty in a Loan?
If you take out a loan, the main counterparty would be the financial institution lending you money.


   The Bottom Line  

When trading stocks or other financial instruments, we seldom think about the person/business on the other side of the trade. Clearinghouses function as an intermediary in financial markets, overseeing transactions and ensuring that both the buyer and the seller honor their contractual obligations.



That doesn’t mean we shouldn’t be curious, though. As discussed in this article, knowing who your counterparty is can actually be quite illuminating.
What Is Counterparty Risk?  

Counterparty risk is the likelihood or probability that one of those involved in a transaction might default on its contractual obligation. Counterparty risk can exist in credit, investment, and trading transactions.





Key Takeaways

Counterparty risk is the likelihood or probability that one of those involved in a transaction might default on its contractual obligation. Counterparty risk can exist in credit, investment, and trading transactions.The numerical value of a borrower’s credit score reflects the level of counterparty risk to the lender or creditor.Investors must consider the company that’s issuing the bond, stock, or insurance policy to assess whether there’s default or counterparty risk.


   Understanding Counterparty Risk  

Varying degrees of counterparty risk exist in all financial transactions. Counterparty risk is also known as default risk. Default risk is the chance that companies or individuals will be unable to make the required payments on their debt obligations. Lenders and investors are exposed to default risk in virtually all forms of credit extensions. Counterparty risk is a risk that both parties should consider when evaluating a contract.


  Counterparty Risk and Risk Premiums  

If one party has a higher risk of default, a premium is usually attached to the transaction to compensate the other party. The premium added due to counterparty risk is called a risk premium.



In retail and commercial financial transactions, credit reports are often used by creditors to determine the counterparty’s credit risk. Credit scores of borrowers are analyzed and monitored to gauge the level of risk to the creditor. A credit score is a numerical value of an individual’s or a company’s creditworthiness, which is based on many variables.



A person’s credit score ranges from 300 to 850, and the higher the score, the more financially trustworthy a person is considered to be to the creditor. Numerical values of credit scores are listed below:



Excellent: 750 and aboveGood: 700 to 749Fair: 650 to 699Poor: 550 to 649Bad: 550 and below



Many factors impact a credit score, including a client’s payment history, the total amount of debt, length of credit history, and credit utilization, which is the percentage of a borrower’s total available credit that is currently being utilized. The numerical value of a borrower’s credit score reflects the level of counterparty risk to the lender or creditor. A borrower with a credit score of 750 would have low counterparty risk, while a borrower with a credit score of 450 would carry high counterparty risk.



If the borrower has a low credit score, the creditor will likely charge a higher interest rate or premium due to the risk of default on the debt. Credit card companies, for example, charge interest rates in excess of 20% for those with low credit scores while they simultaneously offer 0% interest for customers who have stellar credit or high credit scores. If the borrower is delinquent on payments by 60 days or more or exceeds the card’s credit limit, credit card companies usually tack on a risk premium or a penalty rate, which can bring the interest rate of the card to more than 29% annually.






Investors must consider the company that’s issuing the bond, stock, or insurance policy to assess whether there’s default or counterparty risk.


  Investment Counterparty Risk  

Financial investment products such as stocks, options, bonds, and derivatives carry counterparty risk. Bonds are rated by agencies, such as Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s, from AAA to junk bond status to gauge the level of counterparty risk. Bonds that carry higher counterparty risk pay higher yields. When counterparty risk is minimal, the premiums or interest rates are low, such as with money market funds.



For example, a company that offers junk bonds will have a high yield to compensate investors for the added risk that the company could default on its obligations. Conversely, a U.S. Treasury bond has low counterparty risk and therefore is rated higher than corporate debt and junk bonds. However, treasurys typically pay a lower yield than corporate debt since there’s a lower risk of default.


   Examples of Counterparty Risk  

When the counterparty risk is miscalculated and a party defaults, the impending damage can be severe. For example, the default of so many collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) was a major cause of the real estate collapse in 2008.


  Subprime Risk  

Mortgages are securitized into CDOs for investment and backed by the underlying assets. One of the major flaws of CDOs before the economic crash was that they contained subprime and low-quality mortgages, but the CDOs were given the same high-grade ratings as corporate debt.



The high credit rating for CDOs allowed them to receive institutional investment since funds are required to invest only in highly rated debt. When borrowers began defaulting on mortgage payments, the real estate bubble burst, leaving the investors, banks, and reinsurers on the hook for massive losses. The ratings agencies received a lot of blame for the collapse, which eventually led to the financial market meltdown that defined the bear market of 2007–2009.


  AIG and Insurance Risk  

American International Group (AIG) offers insurance products for real estate, businesses, and individuals. The company needed a bailout from the U.S. government during the financial crisis of 2007–2009. For those who were insured by AIG, they suddenly faced an increase in counterparty risk. As mentioned above, investors must consider the company that’s issuing the bond, stock, or insurance policy to assess the level of counterparty risk.




What is an example of counterparty risk?
Counterparty risk refers to the likelihood that a transactor might default on its contractual obligation. In the case of a lender like a bank, one example of counterparty risk would be the borrower’s credit score.




What causes counterparty risk?
Despite best intentions, defaults do occur. For individuals who have borrowed money, for instance, a loss of a job or unexpected costs might contribute to an increase in the likelihood of defaulting on that loan. For businesses, internal factors like operations issues or external factors like a downturn in the economy might contribute. There are a wide variety of factors that may lead to counterparty risk.




What is the difference between counterparty risk and credit risk?
Credit risk and counterparty risk are related but different. Credit risk is a particular type of risk referring to the chance of a loss as a result of a borrower’s failure to pay a loan. Typically, credit risk is associated with banks and other lending institutions. Counterparty risk, on the other hand, broadly refers to the risk of a loss as a result of any party defaulting in a transaction.


   The Bottom Line  

Counterparty risk exists in many types of transactions and refers to the chance that one party will default on its contractual obligations in the transaction. Lenders and investors are each exposed to a degree of counterparty risk. If one party is determined to have a higher level of risk, that party will typically have to pay a risk premium to compensate the other party.
What Is Countertrade?  

Countertrade is a reciprocal form of international trade in which goods or services are exchanged for other goods or services rather than for hard currency. This type of international trade is more common in developing countries with limited foreign exchange or credit facilities. Countertrade can be classified into three broad categories: barter, counterpurchase, and offset.


   Countertrade Explained  

In any form, countertrade provides a mechanism for countries with limited access to liquid funds to exchange goods and services with other nations. Countertrade is part of an overall import and export strategy that ensures a country with limited domestic resources has access to needed items and raw materials. Additionally, it provides the exporting nation with an opportunity to offer goods and services in a larger international market, promoting growth within its industries.


  Barter  

Bartering is the oldest countertrade arrangement. It is the direct exchange of goods and services with an equivalent value but with no cash settlement. The bartering transaction is referred to as a trade. For example, a bag of nuts might be exchanged for coffee beans or meat.


  Counterpurchase  

Under a counterpurchase arrangement, the exporter sells goods or services to an importer and agrees to also purchase other goods from the importer within a specified period. Unlike bartering, exporters entering into a counterpurchase arrangement must use a trading firm to sell the goods they purchase and will not use the goods themselves.


  Offset  

In an offset arrangement, the seller assists in marketing products manufactured by the buying country or allows part of the exported product's assembly to be carried out by manufacturers in the buying country. This practice is common in aerospace, defense and certain infrastructure industries. Offsetting is also more common for larger, more expensive items. An offset arrangement may also be referred to as industrial participation or industrial cooperation.


   Other Examples of a Countertrades  

A counterpurchase refers to the sale of goods and services to a company in a foreign country by a company that promises to make a future purchase of a specific product from the same company in that country.A buyback is a countertrade occurs when a firm builds a manufacturing facility in a country—or supplies technology, equipment, training, or other services to the country and agrees to take a certain percentage of the plant's output as partial payment for the contract.An offset is a countertrade agreement in which a company offsets a hard currency purchase of an unspecified product from that nation in the future.Compensation trade is a form of barter in which one of the flows is partly in goods and partly in hard currency.





Key Takeaways

Countertrade provides a mechanism for countries with limited access to liquid funds to exchange goods and services with other nations.Bartering is the oldest countertrade arrangement.A major benefit of countertrade is that it facilitates the conservation of foreign currency.Common disadvantages of countertrade are complex negotiations, higher costs, and logistical issues.


   Benefits and Drawbacks  

A major benefit of countertrade is that it facilitates the conservation of foreign currency, which is a prime consideration for cash-strapped nations and provides an alternative to traditional financing that may not be available in developing nations. Other benefits include lower unemployment, higher sales, better capacity utilization, and ease of entry into challenging markets.



A major drawback of countertrade is that the value proposition may be uncertain, particularly in cases where the goods being exchanged have significant price volatility. Other disadvantages of countertrade include complex negotiations, potentially higher costs and logistical issues.



Additionally, how the activities interact with various trade policies can also be a point of concern for open-market operations. Opportunities for trade advancement, shifting terms, and conditions instituted by developing nations could lead to discrimination in the marketplace.
What Is a Coupon Rate?  

A coupon rate is the nominal yield paid by a fixed-income security. It is the annual coupon payments paid by the issuer relative to the bond's face or par value. A coupon refers to the annual interest rate paid on a bond, paid from issue date through maturity.





Key Takeaways

A coupon rate is the nominal yield paid by a fixed-income security.When a market ticks up and is more favorable, the coupon will yield less than the prevailing market conditions, as the value was determined during issuance and the bond will not pay more.When a bond is purchased on the secondary market, the yield to maturity (YTM) represents its remaining interest payments, which may be higher or lower than the bond's coupon rate when it was issued.


   Understanding Coupon Rates  

The coupon rate, or coupon payment, is the nominal yield the bond is stated to pay on its issue date. This yield changes as the value of the bond changes, thus giving the bond's yield to maturity (YTM).



The coupon rate is the interest rate paid on a bond by its issuer for the term of the security. The term "coupon" is derived from the historical use of actual coupons for periodic interest payment collections. Once set at the issuance date, a bond's coupon rate remains unchanged, and holders of the bond receive fixed interest payments at a predetermined time or frequency.



A bond issuer decides on the coupon rate based on prevalent market interest rates, among other factors, at the time of the issuance. Market interest rates change over time, and as they move lower or higher than a bond's coupon rate, the value of the bond increases or decreases, respectively.



Changing market interest rates affect bond investment results. Since a bond's coupon rate is fixed all through the bond's maturity, a bondholder is stuck with receiving comparably lower interest payments when the market is offering a higher interest rate. An equally undesirable alternative is selling the bond for less than its face value at a loss. Thus, bonds with higher coupon rates provide a margin of safety against rising market interest rates.






If the market rate turns lower than a bond's coupon rate, holding the bond is advantageous, as other investors may want to pay more than the face value for the bond's comparably higher coupon rate.


   Coupon Rate Formula  

A bond's coupon rate can be calculated by taking the sum of the security's annual coupon payments and dividing them by the bond's par value, then multiplying by 100 in order to be represented as a percent. The formula for coupon rate can be represented as:



(Sum of annual coupon payments / Par value) x 100 = Coupon rate



For example, a bond issued with a face value of $1,000 that pays a $25 coupon semiannually has a coupon rate of 5%. All else held equal, bonds with higher coupon rates are more desirable for investors than those with lower coupon rates. Excel software is also helpful for quickly calculating the bond's coupon rate.


   Coupon Rate vs. Yield  

When investors buy a bond initially at face value and then hold the bond to maturity, the interest they earn on the bond is based on the coupon rate set at issuance. For investors acquiring the bond on the secondary market, depending on the prices they pay, the return they earn from the bond's interest payments may be higher or lower than the bond's coupon rate. This is the effective return called yield to maturity (YTM). Another way to express this is that the current yield of a bond is coupon rate multiplied by the current price of the bond.



For example, a bond with a par value of $100 but traded at $90 gives the buyer a yield to maturity higher than the coupon rate. Conversely, a bond with a par value of $100 but traded at $110 gives the buyer a yield to maturity lower than the coupon rate.


   Example of Coupon Rates  

An example can illustrate the difference between coupon rate and yield. Consider a scenario in which a bond has a par value of $100 and a coupon rate of 3%. This bond provides an annual interest payment totaling $3. If an investor purchases that bond on the secondary market for $90, she will still receive the same $3 in interest payments over a year. The current yield is thus 3.33%. If a second investor purchases the same bond for $110, he will also receive the same $3 in annual interest payments. The current yield of the bond changes again because of the new price, becoming 2.73%.




How Are Coupon Rates Affected by Market Interest Rates?
A bond issuer decides on the coupon rate based on prevalent market interest rates, among others, at the time of the issuance. Market interest rates change over time, and as they move lower or higher than a bond's coupon rate, the value of the bond increases or decreases, respectively. Since a bond's coupon rate is fixed all through the bond's maturity, bonds with higher coupon rates provide a margin of safety against rising market interest rates.




What's the Difference Between Coupon Rate and YTM?
The coupon rate is the annual income an investor can expect to receive while holding a particular bond. It is fixed when the bond is issued and is calculated by dividing the sum of the annual coupon payments by the par value. At the time it is purchased, a bond's yield to maturity (YTM) and its coupon rate are the same. The YTM is the percentage rate of return for a bond assuming that the investor holds the asset until its maturity date. It is the sum of all of its remaining coupon payments and will vary depending on its market value and how many payments remain to be made.




What Is the Effective Yield?
The effective yield is the return on a bond that has its coupon payments reinvested at the same rate by the bondholder. It is the total yield an investor receives, in contrast to the nominal yield—which is the coupon rate. Essentially, effective yield takes into account the power of compounding on investment returns, while nominal yield does not.


   The Bottom Line  

The coupon rate refers to the interest rate paid on a bond by its issuer for the term of the security. Bond issuers set the coupon rate based on market interest rates at the time of issuance. A bond's coupon rate remains unchanged through maturity, and bondholders receive fixed interest payments at a predetermined frequency. As market interest rates change over time, the value of the bond changes to reflect the relative attractiveness of the coupon rate. While the coupon rate stays constant, the bond's yield to maturity (YTM) varies depending on its market value and how many payments remain to be made.
What Is Covariance?  

Covariance measures the directional relationship between the returns on two assets. A positive covariance means asset returns move together, while a negative covariance means they move inversely.



Covariance is calculated by analyzing at-return surprises (standard deviations from the expected return) or multiplying the correlation between the two random variables by the standard deviation of each variable.





Key Takeaways

Covariance is a statistical tool used to determine the relationship between the movements of two random variables.When two stocks tend to move together, they are seen as having a positive covariance; when they move inversely, the covariance is negative.Covariance is different from the correlation coefficient, a measure of the strength of a correlative relationship.Covariance is an important tool in modern portfolio theory for determining what securities to put in a portfolio.Risk and volatility can be reduced in a portfolio by pairing assets that have a negative covariance.












nvestopedia / Paige McLaughlin


   Understanding Covariance  

Covariance evaluates how the mean values of two random variables move together. For example, if stock A's return moves higher whenever stock B's return moves higher, and the same relationship is found when each stock's return decreases, these stocks are said to have positive covariance. In finance, covariances are calculated to help diversify security holdings.


  Formula for Covariance  

When an analyst has price information from a selected stock or fund, covariance can be calculated using the following formula:


















Covariance


=


∑




(



Ret



a


b


c




−



Avg



a


b


c




)


×


(



Ret



x


y


z




−



Avg



x


y


z




)




Sample Size


−


1


















where:

















Ret



a


b


c




=


Day’s return for ABC stock

















Avg



a


b


c




=


ABC’s average return over the period

















Ret



x


y


z




=


Day’s return for XYZ stock

















Avg



x


y


z




=


XYZ’s average return over the period
















Sample Size


=


Number of days sampled







\begin{aligned}&\text{Covariance} = \sum \frac{ ( \text{Ret}_{abc} - \text{Avg}_{abc} ) \times ( \text{Ret}_{xyz} - \text{Avg}_{xyz} ) }{ \text{Sample Size} - 1 } \\&\textbf{where:} \\&\text{Ret}_{abc} = \text{Day's return for ABC stock} \\&\text{Avg}_{abc} = \text{ABC's average return over the period} \\&\text{Ret}_{xyz} = \text{Day's return for XYZ stock} \\&\text{Avg}_{xyz} = \text{XYZ's average return over the period} \\&\text{Sample Size} = \text{Number of days sampled} \\\end{aligned}


​Covariance=∑Sample Size−1(Retabc​−Avgabc​)×(Retxyz​−Avgxyz​)​where:Retabc​=Day’s return for ABC stockAvgabc​=ABC’s average return over the periodRetxyz​=Day’s return for XYZ stockAvgxyz​=XYZ’s average return over the periodSample Size=Number of days sampled​


   Types of Covariance  

The covariance equation is used to determine the direction of the relationship between two variables—in other words, whether they tend to move in the same or opposite directions. A positive or negative covariance value determines this relationship.


  Positive Covariance  

A positive covariance between two variables indicates that these variables tend to be higher or lower at the same time. In other words, a positive covariance between stock one and two is where stock one is higher than average at the same points that stock two is higher than average, and vice versa. When charted on a two-dimensional graph, the data points will tend to slope upwards.


  Negative Covariance  

When the calculated covariance is less than negative, this indicates that the two variables have an inverse relationship. In other words, a stock one value lower than average tends to be paired with a stock two value greater than average, and vice versa.


   Applications of Covariance  

Covariances have significant applications in finance and modern portfolio theory. For example, in the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), which is used to calculate the expected return of an asset, the covariance between a security and the market is used in the formula for one of the model's key variables, beta. In the CAPM, beta measures the volatility, or systematic risk, of a security compared to the market as a whole; it's a practical measure that draws from the covariance to gauge an investor's risk exposure specific to one security.



Meanwhile, portfolio theory uses covariances to statistically reduce the overall risk of a portfolio by protecting against volatility through covariance-informed diversification.






Possessing financial assets with returns that have similar covariances does not provide very much diversification; therefore, a diversified portfolio would likely contain a mix of financial assets that have varying covariances.


   Covariance vs. Variance  

Covariance is related to variance, a statistical measure for the spread of points in a data set. Both variance and covariance measure how data points are distributed around a calculated mean. However, variance measures the spread of data along a single axis, while covariance examines the directional relationship between two variables.



In a financial context, covariance is used to examine how different investments perform in relation to one another. A positive covariance indicates that two assets tend to perform well at the same time, while a negative covariance indicates that they tend to move in opposite directions. Investors might seek investments with a negative covariance to help them diversify their holdings.


   Covariance vs. Correlation  

Covariance is also distinct from correlation, another statistical metric often used to measure the relationship between two variables. While covariance measures the direction of a relationship between two variables, correlation measures the strength of that relationship. This is usually expressed through a correlation coefficient, which can range from -1 to +1.






While the covariance does measure the directional relationship between two assets, it does not show the strength of the relationship between the two assets; the coefficient of correlation is a more appropriate indicator of this strength.



A correlation is considered strong if the correlation coefficient has a value close to +1 (positive correlation) or -1 (negative correlation). A coefficient that is close to zero indicates that there is only a weak relationship between the two variables.


   Example of Covariance Calculation  

The capital sigma symbol (Σ) signifies the summation of all of the calculations. So, you need to calculate for each day and add the results. For example, to calculate the covariance between two stocks, assume you have the stock prices for a period of four days and use the formula:


















Covariance


=


∑




(



Ret



a


b


c




−



Avg



a


b


c




)


×


(



Ret



x


y


z




−



Avg



x


y


z




)




Sample Size


−


1









\begin{aligned}&\text{Covariance} = \sum \frac{ ( \text{Ret}_{abc} - \text{Avg}_{abc} ) \times ( \text{Ret}_{xyz} - \text{Avg}_{xyz} ) }{ \text{Sample Size} - 1 } \\\end{aligned}


​Covariance=∑Sample Size−1(Retabc​−Avgabc​)×(Retxyz​−Avgxyz​)​​










 Day
 ABC
XYZ 




1 
1.2%
3.1% 


2 
1.8%
4.2% 


3 
2.2% 
5.0% 


4 
1.5% 
4.2% 






You would find the Day 1 average return for ABC (1.675%) and XYZ (4.125%), subtract them from the corresponding term, and multiply them. Do this for each day:


















Day 1


=


(


1.2


%


−


1.675


%


)


×


(


3.1


%


−


4.125


%


)


=


0.487







\begin{aligned}&\text{Day 1} = (1.2\% - 1.675\%) \times (3.1\% - 4.125\%) = 0.487 \\\end{aligned}


​Day 1=(1.2%−1.675%)×(3.1%−4.125%)=0.487​


















Day 2


=


(


1.8


%


−


1.675


%


)


∗


(


4.2


%


−


4.125


%


)


=


0.009







\begin{aligned}&\text{Day 2} = (1.8\% - 1.675\%) * (4.2\% - 4.125\%) = 0.009 \\\end{aligned}


​Day 2=(1.8%−1.675%)∗(4.2%−4.125%)=0.009​


















Day 3


=


(


2.2


%


−


1.675


%


)


∗


(


5.0


%


−


4.125


%


)


=


0.459







\begin{aligned}&\text{Day 3} = (2.2\% - 1.675\%) * (5.0\% - 4.125\%) = 0.459 \\\end{aligned}


​Day 3=(2.2%−1.675%)∗(5.0%−4.125%)=0.459​


















Day 4


=


(


1.5


%


−


1.675


%


)


∗


(


4.2


%


−


4.125


%


)


=


−


0.013







\begin{aligned}&\text{Day 4} = (1.5\% - 1.675\%) * (4.2\% - 4.125\%) = -0.013 \\\end{aligned}


​Day 4=(1.5%−1.675%)∗(4.2%−4.125%)=−0.013​



Add each day's result to the previous result:


















0.487


+


0.009


+


0.459


−


0.013


=


0.943







\begin{aligned}&0.487 + 0.009 + 0.459 - 0.013 = 0.943 \\\end{aligned}


​0.487+0.009+0.459−0.013=0.943​



Your sample size is four, so subtract one from four and divide the previous result by it:



















0.943


3



=


.


314







\begin{aligned}&\frac{ 0.943 }{ 3 } = .314 \\\end{aligned}


​30.943​=.314​



This sample has a covariance of .314, a positive number, suggesting that the two stocks are similar in returns.




What Does a Covariance of 0 Mean?
A covariance of zero indicates that there is no clear directional relationship between the variables being measured. In other words, a high value for one stock is equally likely to be paired with a high or low value for the other.




What Is Covariance vs. Variance?
Covariance and variance are used to measure the distribution of points in a data set. However, variance is typically used in data sets with only one variable and indicates how closely those data points are clustered around the average. Covariance measures the direction of the relationship between two variables. A positive covariance means that both variables tend to be high or low at the same time. A negative covariance means that when one variable is high, the other tends to be low.




What Is the Difference Between Covariance and Correlation?
Covariance measures the direction of a relationship between two variables, while correlation measures the strength of that relationship. Both correlation and covariance are positive when the variables move in the same direction and negative when they move in opposite directions. However, a correlation coefficient must always be between -1 and +1, with extreme values indicating a strong relationship.




How Is a Covariance Calculated?
For a set of data points with two variables, the covariance is measured by taking the difference between each variable and their respective means. These differences are then multiplied and averaged across all of the data points. In mathematical notation, this is expressed as:Covariance = Σ [ ( Returnabc - Averageabc ) * ( Returnxyz - Averagexyz ) ] ÷ [ Sample Size - 1 ]


   The Bottom Line  

Covariance is an important statistical metric for comparing the relationships between multiple variables. In investing, covariance is used to identify assets that can help diversify a portfolio.
What Is a Covenant?  

In its broadest sense, a covenant is a promise, agreement, or contract between two parties. As part of the covenant, the two parties agree that certain activities will or will not be carried out.



Covenants in finance most often relate to terms in a financial contract, such as a loan document or bond issue stating the limits at which the borrower can further lend. Covenants in religion often convey the binding relationship between a deity and humanity.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz





Key Takeaways

Covenants are agreements between multiple parties that create a legally binding agreement on how each party is to perform.Covenants can either promote activity to occur (positive covenant) or disallow an event or condition (negative covenant).Debt covenants are most common, as they place financial covenants on the borrower and lender as part of the loan agreement.Covenants are legally binding clauses, and if breached will trigger compensatory or other legal action.Many sectors like finance, real estate, law, and religion have covenants, though it is used in many different contexts across each group.


   Understanding Covenants  

Regarding business, covenants are most often represented in terms of financial ratios that must be maintained, such as a maximum debt-to-asset ratio or other such ratios. Covenants can cover everything from minimum dividend payments to levels that must be maintained in working capital to key employees remaining with the firm.



Once a covenant is broken, the lender typically has the right to call back the obligation from the borrower or take measures to reduce the lender's risk. Generally, there are two types of primary covenants included in agreements: affirmative covenants and negative covenants. In addition, a third type of covenant—financial covenants—is sometimes separated into its own category.


  Affirmative Covenants  

An affirmative or positive covenant is a clause in a loan contract that requires a borrower to perform specific actions. Examples of affirmative covenants include requirements to maintain adequate levels of insurance, requirements to furnish audited financial statements to the lender, compliance with applicable laws, and maintenance of proper accounting books and credit rating, if applicable.



A violation of an affirmative covenant ordinarily results in outright default. Certain loan contracts may contain clauses that provide a borrower with a grace period to remedy the violation. If not corrected, creditors are entitled to announce default and demand immediate repayment of principal and any accrued interest.


  Negative Covenants  

Negative covenants are put in place to make borrowers refrain from certain actions that could result in the deterioration of their credit standing and ability to repay existing debt. The most common forms of negative covenants restrict or forbid something from happening. Common examples include restricting a company from issuing dividends to its shareholders, restricting management fees from being paid to related parties, or restricting the amount of debt a business can carry.



A negative covenant can be circumnavigated with specific overriding approval of the covenant issuer. For example, imagine a company that wants to embark on a merger but is not allowed to due to a negative covenant. Should the opposite party in the covenant agree to release the restriction, the company can proceed. This may also be the case during the acquisition of real estate, capital investments, or disposition of assets.


  Numerical or Financial Covenants  

Lastly, a covenant can be tied to a specific numerical metric. This metric is often financial and may be a single number or calculation to derive a certain ratio for value. A financial covenant is often monitored closely over time as it is the most likely covenant to suddenly change.



The argument could be made that a financial covenant is actually a positive or negative covenant. For example, imagine a company being required to maintain a certain financial ratio above a certain calculated amount. Since this is imposing a requirement, it could technically be classified as a positive covenant. However, some view positive or negative covenants as a single outcome. Meanwhile, financial covenants evaluate operating performance to ensure the overall health of the entity.



In business, financial covenants are often separated into maintenance covenants or incurrence covenants. Maintenance covenants often stipulate operating performance that can not be breached. An example is the interest coverage ratio to ensure a company has sufficient earnings to cover interest assessments. Incurrence covenants occur when a company takes action that impacts financial performance. For example, a company must maintain its debt-to-equity ratio above 0.40; should it wish to raise more debt, it must ensure it satisfies the incurrence covenant.






In finance, covenants are often put in place by lenders to protect themselves from borrowers defaulting on their obligations due to financial actions detrimental to themselves or the business.


   Types of Covenants  

Different industries and sectors have different types of covenants. In general, it's pretty common to see both positive and negative covenants across different industries.


  Debt Covenants  

Debt covenants have been the example used most within this article. A debt covenant arises when an entity works with a financial institution to take out a loan. To secure the loan, the entity must agree to meet certain criteria, not perform certain activities, and maintain good financial standing.



Debt covenants can also impact the lender. For instance, imagine a company secures a line of credit and hopes to use this line over the next several years. It is in the company's best interest to partner with a bank that maintains good financial standing and manages operational risk. Therefore, the borrower may impose covenants on the lender as part of the agreement to ensure the borrower will have long-term capabilities of securing financing.


  Property Covenants  

A property covenant is an agreement between multiple parties that stipulates how real property or real estate will or will not be used. These types of covenants may restrict the landowner or require specific action to be taken. For example, homeowner association (HOA) covenants often require property to have trees trimmed to a certain height or outline how parking spaces are to be utilized.



Some property covenants will "run with the land" or exist in perpetuity regardless of who the owner is. For example, a property covenant may restrict the type or quantity of livestock allowed on a property. Should this covenant be transferrable to any new owner in the future, the covenant is tied to the land.






Covenants have been historically used to discriminate against race, religion, or sexual orientation. For example, more than 500 of these historical covenants were discovered applying to 20,000 properties in King County, Washington. Supreme Court rulings and state law now make these discriminatory covenants illegal.


  Law Covenants  

While covenants are legal agreements by their nature, covenants are also simply part of the legal system. Law is a form of covenant, as law covenants are often negative covenants that restrict an individual or company from performing certain actions. The law may explain the outcome of what will happen should the covenant (law) be broken. Any common law intended to prevent criminal activity is an example of a law covenant.


  Religious Covenants  

Covenants are often found in religion, as a deity often makes promises or agreements to the people of the world or requires something of humankind. Although examples of religious covenants specifically within the Bible are discussed below, covenants are a common part of Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, and Buddhism.



There are two types of covenants in the Bible. First, condition covenants are promises from God that certain outcomes will occur. However, for God to fulfill his part of the covenant, humanity must do its part first. In the first two chapters of Genesis, God promises Adam that blessings and curses depend on the faithfulness of mankind; by eating the forbidden fruit, Adam broke the conditional covenant.



Second, the Bible includes unconditional covenants, which are promises from God that he will fulfill an oath with his divine power without any associated conditions. By creating a rainbow after Noah survived the flood, God essentially promised all of mankind that such destruction would not happen again. No further requirement was needed from mankind to make this happen.


   Covenant Violations  

A covenant violation—often called a breach of covenant—is a failure to uphold the agreed-upon terms of a covenant. Whether a party failed to execute a positive covenant, performed a task it shouldn't have as outlined by a negative covenant, or wasn't able to maintain certain operational metrics, the contract has been broken.


  Debt Covenant Violations  

A bond violation is a breach of the terms of the covenants of a bond. Bond covenants are designed to protect the interests of both parties, where the inclusion of the covenant is in the bond's indenture, which is the binding agreement, contract, or document between two or more parties.



When an issuer violates a bond covenant, it is considered to be in technical default. A common penalty for violating a bond covenant is the downgrading of a bond's rating, which could make it less attractive to investors and increase the issuer's borrowing costs. For example, Moody's, one of the major credit rating agencies in the United States, rates a bond's covenant quality on a scale of 1 to 5, with five being the worst. This means that a bond with a covenant rating of five is an indication that covenants are being violated consistently.






Lenders will often allow for remedy on violated covenants. For financial covenants, after a company has breached its covenant, it must often:Obtain proficient financial metrics that comply with the covenant Sustain those metrics over an agree-upon timeframe


  Other Violations  

In general, a party may have legal recourse to seek compensation for damages should a different party have breached a covenant. For property, failure to comply with association rules or covenants may result in fines or liens. Though an HOA cannot force a homeowner to sell their home, other types of property covenants may call for liquidation or transfer of ownership.



Failure to comply with law covenants results in fines, penalties, fees, or more serious legal punishment. When you park your car on the side of the street, you are subject to the covenant that stipulates you pay for that space during a specific time. Should you fail to comply, you are subject to a parking ticket. Any court proceeding or case is an example of a failed covenant.



Lastly, different religions uphold different consequences for not adhering to specific teachings. The Quran states that should someone stray from believing in Islamic teachings, Allah will never forgive them nor will He guide them "to the right way."


   Example of Bond or Debt Covenants  

As part of its 2021 annual report, Amazon.com Inc. publicly disclosed its note payable obligation. Because of the potential importance and restriction of covenants, it chose to publicly state that the notes were not subject to any covenants.



Conversely, Apple Inc. also report notes payable, though there are terms and conditions as part of their debt obligation. The following excerpt from its 2021 annual report outlines exceptions the limitations on additional interest on the notes:



"The Company will, subject to the exceptions and limitations set forth below, pay as additional interest on the Notes such additional amounts (“Additional Amounts”) as are necessary in order that the net payment by the Company or the paying agent of the Company...will not be less than the amount provided in the Notes to be then due and payable."



Apple further discusses covenants restricting consolidation or merger activity. Their covenant states they may perform these activities as long as:



"We are the continuing entity, or the resulting, surviving or transferee person (the “Successor”) is a person (if such person is not a corporation, then the Successor will include a corporate co-issuer of the debt securities) organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia and the Successor (if not us) will expressly assume, by supplemental indenture, all of our obligations under the debt securities and the applicable Indenture and, for each security that by its terms provides for conversion, provide for the right to convert such security in accordance with its terms"Immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no default or event of default under the applicable Indenture has occurred and is continuing"In the case of the 2013 Indenture, the trustee receives from us an officers’ certificate and an opinion of counsel that the transaction and such supplemental indenture, as the case may be, complies with the applicable provisions of the 2013 Indenture."




What Are Examples of Covenants?
Covenants may be related to finances, property, law, or religion. In business, a loan covenant may disallow a company from acquiring another company or may require a certain amount of cash on hand. A property covenant may require the grass to be cut a specific number of times per year. A religious covenant may be a promise from God to never send a destructive flood like the one Noah experienced again.




What Do Covenants on a Property Mean?
Covenants on a property restrict how a property can be used or set the precedence of how it must be used. Consider a house under the provision of a homeowner's association. The HOA may restrict the owner from renting out the property or listing the property on Airbnb.




What Is an Example of Covenants in Real Estate?
Real estate covenants used to restrict who could legally purchase or occupy real property. For example, consider covenants in King County, Seattle, that used to enforce restrictions based on race, national origin, or ethnic background.Today, real estate covenants are more related to the actual operation and maintenance of a home. Some covenants require certain action to be taken (e.g., owners of a home must trim their trees) while others restrict action (e.g., owners of a home are not allowed to build a fence).




What Are the Covenants in a Contract?
A contract can outline any covenant one party wishes to require as long as the other party agrees to its compliance. As part of the contracting stage, the two parties must communicate their requirements and negotiate what to include and exclude in a contract. The covenants listed from one contract to another may be entirely different, as different parties may wish to be protected in different ways.




What Is the Lord's Covenant?
According to the Bible, the Lord has made several covenants. At the highest level, God has promised to humanity that he will one day return to Earth and grant everlasting life. The Bible also outlines several other covenants where God has made a promise to mankind that may or may not require action on humanity's part.


   The Bottom Line  

Covenants create the parameters of many contracts, whether it's the social contract enforced by a system of laws, the boundaries created by a religion, or limits on how to use your business or property. Read and understand any affirmative or negative covenants before entering into an agreement.
What Is a Cover Letter?  

A cover letter is a written document commonly submitted with a job application outlining the applicant's credentials and interest in the open position. Since a cover letter is often one of only two documents sent to a potential employer, a well- or poorly-written letter can impact whether the applicant is called for an interview.





Key Takeaways

A cover letter is commonly submitted with a job application explaining the applicant's credentials and interest in the position.A good cover letter complements the resume and explains why the candidate is the ideal person for the job.Common cover letter mistakes can sink a job applicant.


   Understanding Cover Letters  

Most job postings are done online and no longer require a physical application. Instead, applicants send companies a copy of their resume along with a cover letter either by email or with a hard copy through the mail. A resume offers a glimpse into the professional and academic experience of a potential employee. The cover letter, on the other hand, acts as an introduction written by the candidate to express their interest in the position and what makes them the best fit for the job.



A good cover letter complements a resume by expanding on items relevant to the job. In essence, it's a sales pitch that describes why the applicant is the best person for the position. Career experts advise job seekers to spend time customizing each cover letter for the particular position, rather than using a generic missive. Although this requires extra effort, it can be very helpful in allowing an applicant to stand out above the competition.



The cover letter provides information to the employer about who the candidate is as a professional and as a person. This includes their areas of interest, professional goals, knowledge, skills they've gained over the years, achievements, passions, and aspirations. The cover letter should be a one-page document that provides a clear and concise idea about why the candidate is the best person for the job. It should also highlight the cultural fit.


   Types of Cover Letters  

While there is no set template for a cover letter, the type of letter that you write will depend on the requirements of each individual company or employer. The information that is included in a cover letter will vary depending on the goals and purpose of your application.



An application cover letter is the most familiar type of cover letter. This is generally written in response to a vacancy that is posted on a company's website or a job board. In addition to answering any specific questions posted in the job ad, it may also highlight any experience or skills that are suitable for the position. A referral cover letter is similar to an application letter, but it includes the name of a colleague or employee who recommended the applicant for the open position. A strong referral can help you stand out against other applicants. A prospecting cover letter, also known as a letter of interest, is written by a job seeker and addressed to a company where they would like to work. However, it is not aimed at a specific role or vacancy. Instead, this type of letter inquires about open positions in general and may highlight any special skills that make the writer suitable for the company. 


   How to Write a Cover Letter  

When employers post a job ad that requires a cover letter, they may specify certain requirements for the cover letter to address. For example, they may require applicants to answer certain questions, or to respect a certain word limit. It is important to follow these requirements, as they reflect on the applicant's ability to understand and follow directions.



If the employer does not set any expectations, a typical cover letter should be about a page or less, and may include a formal greeting, contact information, and links to the applicant's portfolio or work. It should highlight any special skills, and explain why you would be a good fit for the position. This is your chance to impress the employer: Even if your resume does not have everything an employer wants, a well-written cover letter can make the applicant stand out from the crowd.



However, it is possible to include too much information. Most employers will simply glance at the majority of their cover letters, and a long-winded essay might end up at the bottom of the pile. A few short paragraphs explaining your skills, and why you chose that specific employer, should be enough to put your best foot forward.


   Tips for Writing a Cover Letter  

Writing a cover letter doesn't have to be tedious—even though it may seem like it's a chore. Here are a few simple tips you may want to consider when composing your cover letter:



Personalize your letter for each role. Never use a generic cover letter. This means you have to write a new one for each position. Be sure to include your strengths and skills, and explain why you’re the perfect candidate.
Include contact information. If the posting doesn't include the hiring manager's name, call the company, or check its website. Including this person's name gives your letter a proper greeting and also shows you have initiative. And don't forget to add your contact information, too. This is important if your resume gets separated from your cover letter.
Simplify your letter. Communicate clearly and concisely. Using complex words and sentences would most certainly fail to convey your intentions with the company and the person reading the letter probably won't bother with the rest of your application.
Be specific when needed. Don't rehash your resume, so be sure to quantify your accomplishments. For instance, expand on your marketing experience in your cover letter by saying you brought in 200 additional clients each month and increased revenue to $10,000. This can set you apart from candidates with vague personal details.
Proofread. After you’ve written the letter, go over it a few times to ensure there are no errors. Then ask someone else to do a once-over and recommend any changes you may need to make.






A simple, focused cover letter without any typos or grammatical errors will get you noticed by potential employers.



A perfect resume can often be sabotaged by a poorly thought-out cover letter or one that is laden with mistakes. Whether you include the letter as per required submission guidelines, or you simply want to emphasize your interest in the job, make sure you avoid making these blunders.



Names matter. This includes the name of the hiring manager, the company, and yes, even yours. Make sure you have the right names and the correct spelling. And don't forget to change the names if you're using the same cover letter for multiple jobs.
Restating your resume. Since the cover letter is used to identify your skills and explain how your previous experience is applicable to the desired position, don't restate the stuff on your resume. Remember, the cover letter should complement your resume, not just summarize it.
Keep your letter tight. Recruiters often go through hundreds of applications and don't have time to read through a three-page missive. The absolute maximum length for a cover letter should be one page, with a few concise paragraphs.
Omit unnecessary details. Stay on topic. There's no need to mention your graphic-design skills if you're applying for an accounting position. It's a good idea to leave out personal things like your IQ, recreational accomplishments, interests, and hobbies. That is unless they relate to the job or company.
Avoid sounding arrogant. Ensure your cover letter does not make you appear arrogant. While the cover letter is about you and your accomplishments, find a way of saying "I'm the best" without actually saying it. Avoid overusing words like "I," "me," or "my."
Remember that spelling counts. Typos and grammatical errors can show you didn't bother to proofread your own letter. And make sure to be consistent—don't convey a dash with "--" in one place and "—" in another.
Design matters: with the proliferation of publishing, design trends, and software, candidates have become creative in making their cover letter stand out from a design perspective. Make sure your cover letter projects your personality in terms of design while remaining professional. That is personal signature and branding.




How Long Should a Cover Letter Be?
According to Indeed, a leading job-seeking site, a typical cover letter should be about three or four paragraphs long and highlight any special experience or achievements that make the applicant exceptionally well-suited to the position.




How Do You Start a Cover Letter?
A cover letter should start with a formal greeting, preferably addressed to the hiring manager. If you do not know who will be reading your cover letter, a generic "to whom it may concern" is an acceptable, albeit old-fashioned, way to address a cover letter. It is also acceptable to address the letter to a title, such as "Dear Hiring Manager," or "Dear Talent Acquisition Team."




What Should a Cover Letter Contain?
An effective cover letter should highlight the applicant's skills, experience, and any achievements that make them a good fit for their prospective employer. It is also a good chance to mention anything that is not included in the resume: For example, if an applicant is drawn to a certain employer because they love a certain product, the cover letter is a great place to mention it. Make sure your cover letter also includes your name and contact information.


   The Bottom Line  

In a competitive jobs market, an effective cover letter is one way to make a job application stand out. This is a chance for an applicant to demonstrate why they think they would be a good fit. However, a poorly-written or meandering cover letter can hurt an application more than it helps.
What Is a Coverage Ratio?  

A coverage ratio, broadly, is a metric intended to measure a company's ability to service its debt and meet its financial obligations, such as interest payments or dividends. The higher the coverage ratio, the easier it should be to make interest payments on its debt or pay dividends. The trend of coverage ratios over time is also studied by analysts and investors to ascertain the change in a company's financial position.





Key Takeaways

A coverage ratio, broadly, is a measure of a company's ability to service its debt and meet its financial obligations.The higher the coverage ratio, the easier it should be to make interest payments on its debt or pay dividends.Coverage ratios come in several forms and can be used to help identify companies in a potentially troubled financial situation.Common coverage ratios include the interest coverage ratio, debt service coverage ratio, and asset coverage ratio.












Investopedia / Julie Bang


   Understanding a Coverage Ratio  

Coverage ratios come in several forms and can be used to help identify companies in a potentially troubled financial situation, though low ratios are not necessarily an indication that a company is in financial difficulty. Many factors go into determining these ratios, and a deeper dive into a company's financial statements is often recommended to ascertain a business's health.



Net income, interest expense, debt outstanding, and total assets are just a few examples of financial statement items that should be examined. To ascertain whether the company is still a going concern, one should look at liquidity and solvency ratios, which assess a company's ability to pay short-term debt (i.e., convert assets into cash).



Investors can use coverage ratios in one of two ways. First, they can track changes in the company’s debt situation over time. In cases where the debt-service coverage ratio is barely within the acceptable range, it may be a good idea to look at the company’s recent history. If the ratio has been gradually declining, it may only be a matter of time before it falls below the recommended figure.



Coverage ratios are also valuable when looking at a company in relation to its competitors. Evaluating similar businesses is imperative because a coverage ratio that’s acceptable in one industry may be considered risky in another field. If the business you’re evaluating seems out of step with major competitors, it’s often a red flag.



While comparing the coverage ratios of companies in the same industry or sector can provide valuable insights into their relative financial positions, doing so across companies in different sectors is not as useful since it might be like comparing apples to oranges.



Common coverage ratios include the interest coverage ratio, debt service coverage ratio, and asset coverage ratio. These coverage ratios are summarized below.


   Types of Coverage Ratios  
  Interest Coverage Ratio  

The interest coverage ratio measures the ability of a company to pay the interest expense on its debt. The ratio, also known as the times interest earned ratio, is defined as:



Interest Coverage Ratio = EBIT / Interest Expense



where:



EBIT = Earnings before interest and taxes



An interest coverage ratio of two or higher is generally considered satisfactory.


  Debt Service Coverage Ratio  

The debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) measures how well a company is able to pay its entire debt service. Debt service includes all principal and interest payments due to be made in the near term. The ratio is defined as:



DSCR = Net Operating Income / Total Debt Service



A ratio of one or above is indicative that a company generates sufficient earnings to completely cover its debt obligations.


  Asset Coverage Ratio  

The asset coverage ratio is similar in nature to the debt service coverage ratio but looks at balance sheet assets instead of comparing income to debt levels. The ratio is defined as:



Asset Coverage Ratio = Total Assets - Short-term Liabilities / Total Debt



where:



Total Assets = Tangibles, such as land, buildings, machinery, and inventory



As a rule of thumb, utilities should have an asset coverage ratio of at least 1.5, and industrial companies should have an asset coverage ratio of at least 2.


   Other Coverage Ratios  

Several other coverage ratios are also used by analysts, though they are not as prominent as the above three:



The fixed-charge coverage ratio measures a firm's ability to cover its fixed charges, such as debt payments, interest expense, and equipment lease expense. It shows how well a company's earnings can cover its fixed expenses. Banks often look at this ratio when evaluating whether to lend money to a business.
The loan life coverage ratio (LLCR) is a financial ratio used to estimate the solvency of a firm, or the ability of a borrowing company to repay an outstanding loan. The LLCR is calculated by dividing the net present value (NPV) of the money available for debt repayment by the amount of outstanding debt. 
The EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio is a ratio that is used to assess a company's financial durability by examining whether it is at least profitable enough to pay off its interest expenses.
The preferred dividend coverage ratio is a coverage ratio that measures a company's ability to pay off its required preferred dividend payments. Preferred dividend payments are the scheduled dividend payments that are required to be paid on the company's preferred stock shares. Unlike common stock shares, the dividend payments for preferred stock are set in advance and cannot be changed from quarter to quarter. The company is required to pay them.
The liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) refers to the proportion of highly liquid assets held by financial institutions to ensure their ongoing ability to meet short-term obligations. This ratio is essentially a generic stress test that aims to anticipate market-wide shocks and make sure that financial institutions possess suitable capital preservation, to ride out any short-term liquidity disruptions that may plague the market.
The capital loss coverage ratio is the difference between an asset’s book value and the amount received from a sale relative to the value of the nonperforming assets being liquidated. The capital loss coverage ratio is an expression of how much transaction assistance is provided by a regulatory body in order to have an outside investor take part.


   Examples of Coverage Ratios  

To see the potential difference between coverage ratios, let’s look at a fictional company, Cedar Valley Brewing. The company generates a quarterly profit of $200,000 (EBIT is $300,000) and interest payments on its debt are $50,000. Because Cedar Valley did much of its borrowing during a period of low interest rates, its interest coverage ratio looks extremely favorable:



﻿















Interest Coverage Ratio


=




$


3


0


0


,


0


0


0




$


5


0


,


0


0


0




=


6


.


0








\begin{aligned} &\text{Interest Coverage Ratio} = \frac{ \$300,000 }{ \$50,000 } = 6.0 \\ \end{aligned}


​Interest Coverage Ratio=$50,000$300,000​=6.0​﻿



The debt-service coverage ratio, however, reflects a significant principal amount the company pays each quarter totaling $140,000. The resulting figure of 1.05 leaves little room for error if the company’s sales take an unexpected hit:



﻿















DSCR


=




$


2


0


0


,


0


0


0




$


1


9


0


,


0


0


0




=


1


.


0


5








\begin{aligned} &\text{DSCR} = \frac{ \$200,000 }{ \$190,000 } = 1.05 \\ \end{aligned}


​DSCR=$190,000$200,000​=1.05​﻿



Even though the company is generating a positive cash flow, it looks riskier from a debt perspective once debt-service coverage is taken into account.
What Is a Covered Call?  

The term covered call refers to a financial transaction in which the investor selling call options owns an equivalent amount of the underlying security. To execute this, an investor who holds a long position in an asset then writes (sells) call options on that same asset to generate an income stream. The investor's long position in the asset is the cover because it means the seller can deliver the shares if the buyer of the call option chooses to exercise.





Key Takeaways

A covered call is a popular options strategy used to generate income in the form of options premiums.Investors only expect a minor increase or decrease in the underlying stock price for the life of the option when they execute a covered call. To execute a covered call, an investor holding a long position in an asset then writes (sells) call options on that same asset.Covered calls are often employed by those who intend to hold the underlying stock for a long time but do not expect an appreciable price increase in the near term.This strategy is ideal for investors who believe the underlying price will not move much over the near term.












Investopedia / Alex Dos Diaz


   Understanding Covered Calls  

Covered calls are a neutral strategy, meaning the investor only expects a minor increase or decrease in the underlying stock price for the life of the written call option. This strategy is often employed when an investor has a short-term neutral view of the asset and for this reason, holds the asset long and simultaneously has a short position via the option to generate income from the option premium.



Simply put, if an investor intends to hold the underlying stock for a long time but does not expect an appreciable price increase in the near term then they can generate income (premiums) for their account while they wait out the lull.



A covered call serves as a short-term hedge on a long stock position and allows investors to earn income via the premium received for writing the option. However, the investor forfeits stock gains if the price moves above the option's strike price. They are also obligated to provide 100 shares at the strike price (for each contract written) if the buyer chooses to exercise the option.












Image by Julie Bang © Investopedia 2019






   Maximum Profit and Maximum Loss  

The maximum profit of a covered call is equivalent to the premium received for the options sold, plus the potential upside in the stock between the current price and the strike price. Thus, if the $100 call is written on a stock trading at $10, and the writer receives a premium of $1.00, the maximum potential profit is the $1.00 premium plus a $10 appreciation of the stock.



The maximum loss, on the other hand, is equivalent to the purchase price of the underlying stock less the premium received. This is because the stock could potentially drop to zero, in which case all you would receive is the premium for the options sold.






If the investor simultaneously buys a stock and writes call options against that position, it is known as a buy-write transaction.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Covered Calls  
  Reliable Premiums  

An options writer can earn money by selling a covered call, but they lose the potential profits if the call goes into the money. However, the writer must be able to produce 100 shares for each contract if the call expires in the money. If they do not have enough shares, they must buy them on the open market, causing them to lose even more money.


  Limited Losses  

Covering calls can limit the maximum losses from an options transaction, but it also limits the possible profits. This makes them a useful strategy for institutional funds and traders because it allows them to quantify their maximum losses before entering into a position.


  Loss of Potential Upside  

A covered call strategy isn't useful for very bullish or very bearish investors. Very bullish investors are typically better off not writing the option and just holding the stock. The option caps the profit on the stock, which could reduce the overall profit of the trade if the stock price spikes.




Pros and Cons of Covered Calls

Pros

Covered options limit the risks and potential downsides of an options contract.
Options writers can earn a reliable premium from a small price increase.



Cons

Options writers must be able to produce 100 shares for each call option that expires in the money.
If an investor is very bullish on a security, they can make more money from uncovered calls or buying the underlying security.





   When to Use and When to Avoid Covered Calls  

The best time to sell covered calls is when the underlying security has neutral to optimistic long-term prospects, with little likelihood of either large gains or large losses. This allows the call writer to earn a reliable profit from the premium.



Covered calls are not an optimal strategy if the underlying security has a high chance of large price swings. If the price rises higher than expected, the call writer would miss out on any profits above the strike price. If the price falls, the options writer could stand to lose the entire price of the security, minus the initial premium.


   Example of a Covered Call  

Let's say an investor owns shares of a hypothetical company called TSJ. Although the investor likes its long-term prospects and its share price, they feel the stock will likely trade relatively flat in the shorter term, perhaps within a couple of dollars of its current price of $25.



If they sell a call option on TSJ with a strike price of $27, they earn the premium from the option sale but, for the duration of the option, cap their upside on the stock to $27. Assume the premium they receive for writing a three-month call option is $0.75 ($75 per contract or 100 shares). One of two scenarios will play out:



TSJ shares trade below the $27 strike price. The option will expire worthless and the investor will keep the premium from the option. In this case, by using the buy-write strategy they have successfully outperformed the stock. They still own the stock but have an extra $75 in their pocket less fees.TSJ shares rise above $27. The option is exercised, and the upside in the stock is capped at $27. If the price goes above $27.75 (strike price plus premium), the investor would have been better off holding the stock. Although, if they planned to sell at $27 anyway, writing the call option gave them an extra $0.75 per share.




Are Covered Calls a Profitable Strategy?
As with any trading strategy, covered calls may or may not be profitable. The highest payoff from a covered call occurs if the stock price rises to the strike price of the call that has been sold and is no higher. The investor benefits from a modest rise in the stock and collects the full premium of the option as it expires worthless. Like any strategy, covered call writing has advantages and disadvantages. If used with the right stock, covered calls can be a great way to reduce your average cost or generate income.




Are Covered Calls Risky?
Covered calls are considered relatively low risk. Covered calls, however, would limit any further upside profit potential if the stock continued to rise, and would not protect much from a drop in the stock price. Note that, unlike covered calls, call sellers that do not own an equivalent amount in the underlying shares are naked call writers. Naked short calls have theoretically unlimited loss potential if the underlying security rises.




Can I Use Covered Calls in My IRA?
Depending on the custodian of your IRA and your eligibility to trade options with them, yes. There are also certain advantages to using covered calls in an IRA. The possibility of triggering a reportable capital gain makes covered call writing a good strategy for either a traditional or Roth IRA. Investors can buy back the stock at an appropriate price without having to worry about tax consequences, as well as generate additional income that can either be taken as distributions or reinvested.




Is There Such a Thing as a Covered Put?
In contrast to call options, put options grant the contract holder the right to sell the underlying (as opposed to the right to buy it) at a set price. The equivalent position using puts would involve selling short shares and then selling a downside put. This, however, is uncommon. Instead, traders may employ a married put, where an investor, holding a long position in a stock, purchases a put option on the same stock to protect against depreciation in the stock's price.


   The Bottom Line  

A covered call is an options trading strategy that allows an investor to profit from anticipated price rises. To make a covered call, the call writer offers to sell some of their securities at a pre-arranged price sometime in the future. This strategy offers lower upsides than other options strategies, but also offers lower risk.
What Is Covered Interest Rate Parity?  

Covered interest rate parity refers to a theoretical condition in which the relationship between interest rates and the spot and forward currency values of two countries are in equilibrium. The covered interest rate parity situation means there is no opportunity for arbitrage using forward contracts, which often exists between countries with different interest rates.



Covered interest rate parity (CIP) can be compared with uncovered interest rate parity (UIP).





Key Takeaways

The covered interest rate parity condition says that the relationship between interest rates and spot and forward currency values of two countries are in equilibrium.It assumes no opportunity for arbitrage using forward contracts.Covered and uncovered interest rate parity are the same when forward and expected spot rates are the same.


   The Formula for Covered Interest Rate Parity Is  

















(


1


+



i


d



)



=



F


S



∗



(


1


+



i


f



)

















where:

















i


d



=


The interest rate in the domestic currency or the base currency

















i


f



=


The interest rate in the foreign currency or the quoted currency
















S


=


The current spot exchange rate
















F


=


The forward foreign exchange rate







\begin{aligned} &\left(1+i_d\right) = \frac{F}{S}*\left(1+i_f\right)\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &i_d = \text{The interest rate in the domestic currency or the base currency}\\ &i_f = \text{The interest rate in the foreign currency or the quoted currency}\\ &S = \text{The current spot exchange rate}\\ &F = \text{The forward foreign exchange rate} \end{aligned}


​(1+id​)=SF​∗(1+if​)where:id​=The interest rate in the domestic currency or the base currencyif​=The interest rate in the foreign currency or the quoted currencyS=The current spot exchange rateF=The forward foreign exchange rate​
The formula above can be rearranged to determine the forward foreign exchange rate:





F


=


S


∗




(


1


+



i


f



)




(


1


+



i


d



)





F = S * \frac { ( 1 + i_f ) }{ ( 1 + i_d ) }


F=S∗(1+id​)(1+if​)​
Under normal circumstances, a currency that offers lower interest rates tends to trade at a forward foreign exchange rate premium in relation to another currency offering higher interest rates.


   What Does Covered Interest Rate Parity Tell You?  

Covered interest rate parity is a no-arbitrage condition that could be used in the foreign exchange markets to determine the forward foreign exchange rate. The condition also states that investors could hedge foreign exchange risk or unforeseen fluctuations in exchange rates (with forward contracts).



Consequently, the foreign exchange risk is said to be covered. Interest rate parity may occur for a time, but that does not mean it will remain. Interest rates and currency rates change over time.


   Example of How to Use Covered Interest Rate Parity  

As an example, assume Country X's currency is trading at par with Country Z's currency, but the annual interest rate in Country X is 6% and the interest rate in country Z is 3%. All other things being equal, it would make sense to borrow in the currency of Z, convert it in the spot market to currency X, and invest the proceeds in Country X.



However, to repay the loan in currency Z, one must enter into a forward contract to exchange the currency back from X to Z. Covered interest rate parity exists when the forward rate of converting X to Z eradicates all the profit from the transaction.



Since the currencies are trading at par, one unit of Country X's currency is equivalent to one unit of Country Z's currency. Assume that the domestic currency is Country Z's currency. Therefore, the forward price is equivalent to 0.97, or 1 * [(1 + 3%) / (1 + 6%)].



Looking at the currency markets, we can apply the forward foreign exchange rate formula to figure out what the GBP/USD rate might be. Say the spot rate for the pair was trading at 1.35. Also assume that the interest rate (using the prime lending rate) for the U.S. was 1.1% and 3.25% for the U.K. The domestic currency is the British pound, making the forward rate 1.32, or 1.35 * [(1 + 0.011) / (1 + 0.0325].


   The Difference Between Covered Interest Rate Parity and Uncovered Interest Rate Parity  

Covered interest parity involves using forward contracts to cover the exchange rate. Meanwhile, uncovered interest rate parity involves forecasting rates and not covering exposure to foreign exchange risk—that is, there are no forward rate contracts, and it uses only the expected spot rate. There is no difference between covered and uncovered interest rate parity when the forward and expected spot rates are the same.


   Limitations of Using Covered Interest Rate Parity  

Interest rate parity says there is no opportunity for interest rate arbitrage for investors of two different countries. But this requires perfect substitutability and the free flow of capital. Sometimes there are arbitrage opportunities. This comes when the borrowing and lending rates are different, allowing investors to capture riskless yield.



For example, the covered interest rate parity fell apart during the financial crisis. However, the effort involved to capture this yield usually makes it non-advantageous to pursue.
What Is Creative Destruction?  

Creative destruction is the dismantling of long-standing practices in order to make way for innovation and is seen as a driving force of capitalism.





Key Takeaways

Creative destruction describes the deliberate dismantling of established processes in order to make way for improved methods of production.Creative destruction is most often used to describe disruptive technologies such as the railroads or, in our own time, the internet.The term was coined in the early 1940s by economist Joseph Schumpeter, who observed real-life examples of creative destruction, such as Henry Ford’s assembly line. Creative destruction can be seen across many different industries such as technology, retail, and finance. Creative destruction often has unintended consequences such as temporary losses of jobs, environmental issues, or inequity.


   Understanding Creative Destruction  

The term creative destruction was first coined by Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter in 1942. Schumpeter characterized creative destruction as innovations in the manufacturing process that increase productivity, describing it as the "process of industrial mutation that incessantly revolutionizes the economic structure from within, incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating a new one."












Investopedia / Alison Czinkota



Basically, the theory of creative destruction assumes that long-standing arrangements and assumptions must be destroyed to free up resources and energy to be deployed for innovation. To Schumpeter, economic development is the natural result of forces internal to the market and is created by the opportunity to seek profit.



Creative destruction theory treats economics as an organic and dynamic process. This stands in stark contrast with the static mathematical models of traditional Cambridge-tradition economics. Equilibrium is no longer the end goal of market processes. Instead, many fluctuating dynamics are constantly reshaped or replaced by innovation and competition.



As is implied by the word destruction, the process inevitably results in losers and winners. Producers and workers committed to the older technology will be left stranded. Entrepreneurs and workers in new technologies, meanwhile, will inevitably create disequilibrium and highlight new profit opportunities.



In describing creative destruction, Schumpeter was not necessarily endorsing it. In fact, his work is considered to be heavily influenced by The Communist Manifesto, the pamphlet by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels which decried the bourgeoisie for its "constant revolutionizing of production [and] uninterrupted disturbance of all social conditions."﻿﻿﻿﻿






Netflix is a modern example of creative destruction, having overthrown disc rental and traditional media industries.


   Principles of Creative Destruction  

Innovation: Creative destruction involves the introduction of new ideas, products, and technologies that replace the existing ones. Innovation is the driving force of creative destruction. Without innovation, creative destruction could not exist and without innovators, there would be no change agents that could make creative destruction happen.
Competition: The process of creative destruction involves intense competition between the old and new technologies or products. The new products or technologies must prove to be better and more efficient than the old ones to replace them. For this reason, creative destruction is usually heavily tied to competition and competitive advantages. Companies usually strive to find the best ways to do things and are often willing to creatively destroy what they've done in the past to find better long-term solutions.
Entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurship is also critical to the process of creative destruction. The entrepreneurs who develop new products and technologies and disrupt existing markets are the agents of creative destruction. They are responsible for overseeing change management, educating both internal staff and consumers on how this change will impact them. Without clear guidance on the intention of the creative destruction, the entrepreneur will likely fail in their attempt to innovate.
Capital: Last, a cornerstone principle of creative destruction is capital. Making sweeping, radical innovate changes is often expensive, and companies must be prepared to take on financial risk to make this change. Most often, companies will seen venture capital investments to aid with funding the creative destruction.


   Creative Destruction Across Industries  

Creative destruction can be seen across many different industries. As all companies often strive to be better, many businesses seek new ways to disrupt the status quo and seek new paths to better business opportunity. Some examples of those industries are below.



Technology: The technology industry is perhaps the most obvious example of creative destruction at work. New technologies and software products are constantly emerging, replacing older ones and disrupting established markets. Companies may also creatively destroy their own products (i.e. Apple) in order to make way for better, more innovate solutions.
Media and Entertainment: The rise of streaming services such as Netflix and Amazon Prime has disrupted the traditional media and entertainment industry, leading to the decline of cable TV and traditional movie theaters. Now, these streaming platforms are reinventing the wheel again by investing into making their own content.
Retail: The growth of e-commerce has disrupted traditional retail, leading to the closure of many physical stores and the rise of online marketplaces. Consider the last time you visited a physical shopping mall. For many, it's been longer than when they last placed their last online purchase. Now, online retailers are upping the ante by expanding into other nontraditional forms of digital shopping (i.e. grocery foods).
Finance: The rise of fintech startups has disrupted the traditional banking and finance industry, offering new and innovative services that challenge the traditional players. Now, people can invest in tokenized, fractionalized pieces of physical, tangible land.
Energy: The development of renewable energy technologies is disrupting the traditional energy industry, leading to the decline of fossil fuels and the rise of solar and wind power. These companies are now needing to find more innovative ways to provide green solutions that make the inventions just a decade old obsolete.






Companies don't technically need to embark on creative destruction; however, by not doing so, they risk the occurrence of falling behind their competition.


   Limitations of Creative Destruction  

Though creative destruction can lead to many long-term positive aspects of economic growth and innovation, it does come with downsides. As old industries and technologies are replaced, jobs may be lost. This can lead to unemployment and hardship for those who are displaced due to the nature of their previous employment relating to an antiquated industry. It can also take time for new jobs and industries to emerge.



The benefits of creative destruction may also not be evenly distributed. Wealth and power may become concentrated in the hands of a few individuals or companies that are able to succeed in the new markets. This is often the case for those who have the best access to power, capital, or influence. Those who have already succeeded are also the most likely to have the best opportunity to embark on creative destruction.



The process of creative destruction may also have negative environmental consequences. New technologies and products may have unforeseen environmental impacts that are not immediately apparent, and the process of replacing old technologies with new ones may also have an environmental cost. It may sometimes take years for enough evidence has been collected to truly see the long-term implications of certain forms of innovation.


   Creative Destruction Examples  

Examples of creative destruction in history include Henry Ford's assembly line and how it revolutionized the automobile manufacturing industry. However, it also displaced older markets and forced many laborers out of work.



The internet is perhaps the most all-encompassing example of creative destruction, where the losers were not only retail clerks and their employers but also bank tellers, secretaries, and travel agents. The mobile internet added many more losers, from taxi cab drivers to mapmakers.



The winners, beyond the obvious example of programmers, might be just as numerous. The entertainment industry was turned upside down by the internet, but its need for creative talent and product remains the same or greater. The internet destroyed many small businesses but created many new ones online.



The point, as Schumpeter noted, is that an evolutionary process rewards improvements and innovations and punishes less efficient ways of organizing resources. The trend line is toward progress, growth, and higher standards of living overall.




Why Is Creative Destruction a Good Thing?
While creative destruction can cause short-term pain and job losses, it is generally seen as a positive force for long-term economic growth and progress. Creative destruction is driven by innovation, which is a key driver of economic growth.  Creative destruction also encourages competition, which helps to keep prices low and quality high. Last, it may help the economy become more resilient by breaking up monopolies and reducing reliance on outdated industries or technologies.




What Emerges From Creative Destruction?
Creative destruction can give rise to entirely new industries that did not exist before. For example, the rise of the internet has created new industries, such as e-commerce, social media, and digital marketing. This also means that existing products and services are replaced by new innovations which can lead to brand new business models. Last, each of these items mentioned above can result in new jobs or employment sectors.




What Areas of the Economy and Markets Is Creative Destruction Used to Describe?
Creative destruction can occur within almost any industry, leading to the destruction of existing companies and the emergence of new ones. It can further happen at a lower level such as individual products and services, leading to the replacement of existing products and services with new ones. By extension, this all has an impact on jobs and employment. Simply put, all industries, markets, and sectors are subject to innovation and can be the subject matter to creative destruction.




What Are Modern Examples of Creative Destruction?
Consider Apple's frequent product releases. When the company deems it necessary, they release new gadgets, hardware, or software that usually takes the place of prior offerings. This is an example of Apple embarking on creative destruction where they make their older items obsolete in favor of coming up with innovative, new solutions for long-term benefit.


   The Bottom Line  

Creative destruction is a concept introduced by economist Joseph Schumpeter that refers to the process of innovation and technological change that leads to the destruction of existing economic structures, such as industries, firms, and jobs. This destruction paves the way for new structures to emerge, thereby creating long-term economic growth and progress. Though potential short-term downsides, creative destruction has the intention of creating long-term value.
What Is Credit?  

The word "credit" has many meanings in the financial world, but it most commonly refers to a contractual agreement in which a borrower receives a sum of money or something else of value and commits to repaying the lender at a later date, typically with interest.



Credit can also refer to the creditworthiness or credit history of an individual or a company—as in "she has good credit." In the world of accounting, it refers to a specific type of bookkeeping entry.



Spanish Translation of Credit





Key Takeaways

Credit is typically defined as an agreement between a lender and a borrower.Credit can also refer to an individual's or a business's creditworthiness.In accounting, a credit is a type of bookkeeping entry, the opposite of which is a debit.












Investopedia / Sydney Saporito


   Credit in Lending and Borrowing  

Credit represents an agreement between a creditor (lender) and a borrower (debtor). The debtor promises to repay the lender, often with interest, or risk financial or legal penalties. Extending credit is a practice that goes back thousands of years, to the dawn of human civilization, according to the anthropologist David Graeber in his book Debt: The First 5000 Years.



There are many different forms of credit. Common examples include car loans, mortgages, personal loans, and lines of credit. Essentially, when the bank or other financial institution makes a loan, it "credits" money to the borrower, who must pay it back at a future date.



Credit cards may be the most ubiquitous example of credit today, allowing consumers to purchase just about anything on credit. The card-issuing bank serves as an intermediary between buyer and seller, paying the seller in full while extending credit to the buyer, who may repay the debt over time while incurring interest charges until it is fully paid off.



Similarly, if buyers receive products or services from a seller who doesn't require payment until later, that is a form of credit. For example, when a restaurant receives a truckload of produce from a wholesaler who will bill the restaurant for it a month later, the wholesaler is providing the restaurant owner with a form of credit.


   Other Definitions of Credit  

"Credit" is also used as shorthand to describe the financial soundness of businesses or individuals. Someone who has good or excellent credit is considered less of a risk to lenders than someone with bad or poor credit.



Credit scores are one way that individuals are classified in terms of risk, not only by prospective lenders but also by insurance companies and, in some cases, landlords and employers. For example, the commonly used FICO score ranges from 300 to 850. Anyone with a score of 800 or higher is considered to have exceptional credit, 740 to 799 represents very good credit, 670 to 739 is good credit, 580 to 669 is fair, and a score of 579 or less is poor.



Companies are also judged by credit rating agencies, such as Moody's and Standard and Poor's, and given letter-grade scores, representing the agency's assessment of their financial strength. Those scores are closely watched by bond investors and can affect how much interest companies will have to offer in order to borrow money. Similarly, government securities are graded based on whether the issuing government or government agency is considered to have solid credit. U.S. Treasuries, for example, are backed by "full faith and credit of the United States."



In the world of accounting, "credit" has a more specialized meaning. It refers to a bookkeeping entry that records a decrease in assets or an increase in liabilities (as opposed to a debit, which does the opposite). For example, suppose that a retailer buys merchandise on credit. After the purchase, the company's inventory account increases by the amount of the purchase (via a debit), adding an asset to the company's balance sheet. However, its accounts payable field also increases by the amount of the purchase (via a credit), adding a liability.




What Is a Letter of Credit?
Often used in international trade, a letter of credit is a letter from a bank guaranteeing that a seller will receive the full amount that it is due from a buyer by a certain agreed-upon date. If the buyer fails to do so, the bank is on the hook for the money.




What Is a Credit Limit?
A credit limit represents the maximum amount of credit that a lender (such as a credit card company) will extend (such as to a credit card holder). Once the borrower reaches the limit they are unable to make further purchases until they repay some portion of their balance. The term is also used in connection with lines of credit and buy now, pay later loans.




What Is a Line of Credit?
A line of credit refers to a loan from a bank or other financial institution that makes a certain amount of credit available to the borrower for them to draw on as needed, rather than taking all at once. One type is the home equity line of credit (HELOC), which allows owners to borrow against the value of their home for renovations or other purposes.




What Is Revolving Credit?
Revolving credit involves a loan with no fixed end date—a credit card account being a good example. As long as the account is in good standing, the borrower can continue to borrow against it, up to whatever credit limit has been established. As the borrower makes payments toward the balance, the account is replenished. These kinds of loans are often referred to open-end credit. Mortgages and car loans, by contrast, are considered closed-end credit because they come to an end on a certain date.


   The Bottom Line  

The word "credit" has multiple meanings in personal and business finance. Most often it refers to the ability to buy a good or service and pay for it at some future point. Credit may be arranged directly between a buyer and seller or with the assistance of an intermediary, such as a bank or other financial institution. Credit serves a vital purpose in making the world of commerce run smoothly.
What Is a Credit Analyst?  

The term credit analyst refers to a financial professional who assesses the creditworthiness of securities, individuals, or companies. Credit analysts determine the likelihood that a borrower can repay their financial obligations by reviewing their financial and credit history and determining whether the state of the subject's financial health and the economic conditions are favorable to repayment.



These professionals generally have an academic background in finance, accounting, or a related field. Credit analysts can find work in different financial institutions.





Key Takeaways

Credit analysts analyze investments and borrowers' creditworthiness to determine their potential risk for investors and lenders.They examine financial statements and use ratios when analyzing the financial history of a potential borrower.Credit analysts are typically employed by commercial and investment banks, credit card issuing institutions, credit rating agencies, and investment companies.Credit analysts are often called credit risk analysts because credit analysis is a specialized area of financial risk analysis.Debt issuers and their instruments are assigned scores based on letter grades by credit analysts.


   How Credit Analysts Work  

A credit analyst gathers and analyzes financial data associated with lending and credit products. This includes reviewing a borrower's payment history, along with liabilities, earnings, and assets they possess. The analyst looks for indicators that the borrower might present a level of risk. The data are used to recommend the approval or denial of credit and to determine whether to increase or reduce credit limits or charge additional fees.



A key component of their jobs is to interpret financial statements and use ratios to analyze the fiduciary behavior and history of a potential borrower. They decide whether the borrower has adequate cash flows by comparing ratios with industry data benchmarks. For example, a credit analyst working at a bank may examine an agricultural company's financial statements before approving a loan for new farm equipment.



Credit analysts are required to have a background in finance, economics, math, accounting, or other related field. Candidates with bachelor's degrees and experience are preferred, although a potential employer may overlook experience if someone has a graduate degree. Some analysts also have advanced certification, such as training offered through the National Association of Credit Analysts.



Employment is offered at a variety of financial institutions, including banks, investment companies, credit unions, credit rating agencies, insurance companies, and asset management companies. Analysts who work in securities, commodity contracts, and other areas of financial investments earn the highest salaries.





$86,170

The mean annual salary for a credit analyst in 2020. The highest in the U.S. was $125,900 in New York State.


   Special Considerations  

Credit analysts are often called credit risk analysts. That's because credit analysis is a specialized area of financial risk analysis. Analysts evaluate the risk investments hold and determine the interest rate and credit limit or loan terms for a borrower. They use their research to ensure the borrower receives an affordable loan and the lender is protected if the borrower defaults.



Analysts may recommend a business loan or business credit after considering certain risk factors. These factors may be environment-oriented, such as economic changes, stock market fluctuations, legislative changes, and regulatory requirements. If a business client struggles to meet payroll, it could be indicative of a decline in revenue and potential bankruptcy, which may affect the bank’s assets, ratings, and reputation.



Banks can use financial data to determine whether they want to approve certain loans by analyzing how much risk is involved in lending. If a loan is approved, the credit analyst monitors the borrower's performance and may recommend terminating the agreement if it becomes risky. Determining the level of risk in a loan or investment helps banks manage risks and generate revenue.



For example, a credit analyst may recommend a solution for an individual who has defaulted on their credit card payments. The analyst may recommend reducing their credit limit, closing their account, or offering them a new credit card with a lower interest rate.






Credit analysts play a key role in the well-being of the economy because credit stimulates financial activity. Access to credit provides consumers with additional spending power, which helps improve individuals' lifestyles and gives businesses temporary liquidity.


   Credit Analysts and Credit Ratings  

Credit analysts may also issue credit scores. A credit score is a three-digit number ranging from around 200 to 850. The most common type of individual credit score is the FICO score. Credit score generation is typically automated for individuals through algorithmic processes based on their credit payment histories, spending, and past bankruptcies.



Scores for debt issuers and their instruments, such as bonds, are based on letter grades. The highest is AAA, followed by AA+, BBB, and so on. A company's debt is considered junk or below investment grade, once it goes below a certain rating. These investments typically carry higher yields to accommodate for the additional credit risk.



Sovereign governments can also have credit scores on their bonds. Credit analysts who assess bonds often work at credit rating agencies such as Moody's or Standard & Poor's (S&P). Insurance companies are also rated on their credit risk and financial stability by rating agencies such as AM Best.




What Skills Do You Need to Be a Credit Analyst?
A credit analyst should have accounting skills, such as the ability to create and analyze financial statements and ledgers. Many credit analysts will have skills in risk analysis, mathematics, statistics, computing, and quantitative analysis. Credit analysts should be good at problem-solving, have attention to detail, and have the ability to research and document their findings. They should be able to understand and apply the terms used in finance, banking, and business.




How Do I Become a Credit Analyst?
To become a credit analyst you will usually be required to have a minimum of a bachelor's degree in finance, accounting, or a related field. A potential employer may look to see if you have completed courses in statistics, economics, financial statement analysis, and risk assessment. They may also require some previous on-the-job experience in accounting, banking, or finance.Industry certifications can also help you land a job as a credit analyst or advance your career in the field. Common certifications for credit analysts include credit risk certification (CRC), credit business associate (CBA), credit business fellow (CBF), professional certificate in credit, and certified credit executive (CCE). Some credit analysts have chartered financial analyst (CFA) or certified risk analyst (CRA) certifications.




Is a Credit Analyst a Good Job?
Yes, a credit analyst can be a good job if you have an interest in accounting or finance, along with a desire to help companies and consumers make decisions regarding the extension of credit and the reduction of financial risk. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the estimated wage range for credit analysts in 2020 was $44,250 to $146,690. The mean annual wage for credit analysts was $86,170.The top-paying industries for credit analysts are monetary authorities (central banks); securities, commodities, and financial investment companies; insurance carriers; and business support firms. The states with the highest employment levels for credit analysts are California, New York, Texas, Florida, and Illinois.
What Is a Credit Bureau?  

A credit bureau, also known in the U.S. as a credit reporting agency, is an organization that collects and researches individual credit information and sells it to creditors for a fee, so they can make decisions about extending credit or granting loans.





Key Takeaways

A credit bureau collects and researches individual credit information and sells it to creditors for a fee, so they can make decisions about granting loans.The top three credit bureaus in the U.S. are Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion, although there are several others as well.Credit bureaus assign credit scores to individuals based on the credit history that they assemble.Credit scores are important predictors of whether or not you will qualify for credit and on what terms.Credit bureaus do not decide whether or not you will get credit—they merely collect and synthesize information regarding your credit risk and give it to lending institutions.


   How Credit Bureaus Work  

Credit bureaus partner with all types of lending institutions and credit issuers to help them make loan decisions. Their primary purpose is to ensure that creditors have the information they need to make lending decisions. Typical clients for a credit bureau include banks, mortgage lenders, credit card issuers, and other personal financial lending companies.



Credit bureaus are not responsible for deciding whether or not an individual should have credit extended to them; they merely collect and synthesize information about an individual’s credit score and give that information to lending institutions. Consumers can also be customers of credit bureaus, and they receive the same service—information about their credit history.


   Credit Scores  

Credit bureaus acquire their information from data providers, which can be creditors, debtors, debt collection agencies, vendors, or offices with public records (court records, for example, are publicly available). Most credit bureaus focus on credit accounts; however, some also access more comprehensive information, including payment history on cellphone bills, utility bills, rent, and more. Credit bureaus then use a range of methodologies to calculate a person’s credit score based on this credit history.



FICO scores, created by the Fair Isaac Corporation in 1989, are the most common credit scores in the U.S. There are 19 commonly used FICO scores, and each is calculated differently with an eye toward different types of clients, allowing credit issuers to choose the type of credit score that best fits their inquiry.



Credit bureaus then add the credit score to the information they’ve accumulated and issue a comprehensive credit report, which provides credit issuers with information that helps them determine credit approval and appropriate interest rates for borrowers. An individual with a higher credit score will likely have a lower interest rate on a loan.





90%

Of lenders in the U.S. rely on a FICO score to help them decide whether or not to offer credit and on what terms.


   Major Credit Bureaus  

Though there are several credit bureaus currently operating in the U.S., the three main ones are Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. In addition to using FICO scores, these three bureaus have also combined to create their credit score, the VantageScore.



Both scores are calculated on a range from 300 to 850, although the VantageScore initially used a 501 to 990 range, and some industry-specific FICO scores are graded on a 250 to 900 scale. However, FICO and VantageScore weigh the importance of individual categories differently and so are generally dissimilar in their scores. A good FICO score, for example, is considered to be in the 670 to 719 range, while a good VantageScore is in the 661 to 780 range.



Another major difference between the scores has to do with their sources. VantageScores create a single score that can go with a credit report from each of the bureaus, based on information from all three bureaus. FICO, on the other hand, only uses information from one bureau for its score. So, for example, you could have three different versions of your FICO score, one for each of the three credit bureaus.






You are entitled to one free credit report every 12 months from each bureau, but you may have to pay to see your credit score.


   Credit Bureau Regulation  

Though credit bureaus don’t make lending decisions, they are very powerful financial institutions, and the information contained in their reports can have a substantial impact on an individual’s financial future. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), passed in 1970, regulates credit bureaus and their use and interpretation of consumer data. It is primarily designed to protect consumers from negligent or deliberately fraudulent information in their credit score reports.



In 2003, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACTA) updated the Fair Credit Reporting Act to give consumers the right to get one free credit report every 12 months from credit bureaus. It also gave them the right to purchase a credit score, complete with information as to how that score was calculated.
What Is a Credit Card?  

A credit card is a thin rectangular piece of plastic or metal issued by a bank or financial services company that allows cardholders to borrow funds with which to pay for goods and services with merchants that accept cards for payment. Credit cards impose the condition that cardholders pay back the borrowed money, plus any applicable interest, as well as any additional agreed-upon charges, either in full by the billing date or over time.



In addition to the standard credit line, the credit card issuer may also grant a separate cash line of credit (LOC) to cardholders, enabling them to borrow money in the form of cash advances that can be accessed through bank tellers, ATMs, or credit card convenience checks. Such cash advances typically have different terms, such as no grace period and higher interest rates, compared with those transactions that access the main credit line. Issuers customarily preset borrowing limits based on an individual’s credit rating. A vast majority of businesses let the customer make purchases with credit cards, which remain one of today’s most popular payment methodologies for buying consumer goods and services.





Key Takeaways

Credit cards are plastic or metal cards used to pay for items or services using credit.Credit cards charge interest on the money spent.Credit cards may be issued by stores, banks, or other financial institutions and often offer perks like cash back, discounts, or reward miles.Secured credit cards and debit cards offer options for those with little or bad credit.












Investopedia / Ellen Lindner


   Understanding Credit Cards  

Credit cards typically charge a higher annual percentage rate (APR) vs. other forms of consumer loans. Interest charges on any unpaid balances charged to the card are typically imposed approximately one month after a purchase is made (except in cases where there is a 0% APR introductory offer in place for an initial period of time after account opening), unless previous unpaid balances had been carried forward from a previous month—in which case there is no grace period granted for new charges.



By law, credit card issuers must offer a grace period of at least 21 days before interest on purchases can begin to accrue. That’s why paying off balances before the grace period expires is a good practice when possible. It is also important to understand whether your issuer accrues interest daily or monthly, as the former translates into higher interest charges for as long as the balance is not paid. This is especially important to know if you’re looking to transfer your credit card balance to a card with a lower interest rate. Mistakenly switching from a monthly accrual card to a daily one may potentially nullify the savings from a lower rate.






Individuals with poor credit histories often seek secured credit cards, which require cash deposits, that afford them commensurate lines of credit.


   Types of Credit Cards  

Most major credit cards—which include Visa, Mastercard, Discover, and American Express—are issued by banks, credit unions, or other financial institutions. Many credit cards attract customers by offering incentives such as airline miles, hotel room rentals, gift certificates to major retailers, and cash back on purchases. These types of credit cards are generally referred to as rewards credit cards.



To generate customer loyalty, many national retailers issue branded versions of credit cards, with the store’s name emblazoned on the face of the cards. Although it’s typically easier for consumers to qualify for a store credit card than for a major credit card, store cards may be used only to make purchases from the issuing retailers, which may offer cardholders perks such as special discounts, promotional notices, or special sales. Some large retailers also offer co-branded major Visa or Mastercard credit cards that can be used anywhere, not just in retailer stores.



Secured credit cards are a type of credit card where the cardholder secures the card with a security deposit. Such cards offer limited lines of credit that are equal in value to the security deposits, which are often refunded after cardholders demonstrate repeated and responsible card usage over time. These cards are frequently sought by individuals with limited or poor credit histories.



Similar to a secured credit card, a prepaid debit card is a type of secured payment card, where the available funds match the money that someone already has parked in a linked bank account. By contrast, unsecured credit cards do not require security deposits or collateral. These cards tend to offer higher lines of credit and lower interest rates vs. secured cards.












Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Building Credit History with Credit Cards  

When used responsibly, regular, non-secured, and secured cards can help consumers build a positive credit history while providing a way to make online purchases and eliminate the need to carry cash. Since both types of credit cards report payments and purchasing activity to the major credit agencies, cardholders who use their card responsibly can build strong credit scores and potentially extend their lines of credit and—in the case of secured cards—potentially upgrade to a regular credit card.



Building good credit history is a combination of things—making regular, on-time payments, avoiding late payments, keeping credit utilization under your credit limit, and maintaining a low debt-to-income ratio. By making responsible purchases and paying them off in a timely manner, a credit score will rise, making a consumer more attractive to other lenders.




How do I get a credit card if I don’t have any credit?
Building credit history can be a bit of a catch-22. If you don’t have any credit, merchants or banks are less likely to extend credit to you since you’re an unproven borrower. Opening a secured credit card is one of the simplest ways to get started. Since spenders are only borrowing from the money they put down as a deposit, there is little risk for the lender, and it gives them a snapshot of your spending and repayment habits.Another way to start building credit is to become an authorized user on an established credit account, such as a parent or spouse. The cardholder’s credit history will appear on your account, adding longevity to your credit report. But be sure that the person with whom you partner has good credit habits. If their financial choices are poor, that will also reflect on you.




Do credit cards have fixed or variable annual percentage rates (APRs)?
Many credit cards will have both types of annual percentage rates (APRs). To find out which kind of APR you have, read the cardholder agreement that comes with your credit card. Card issuers must legally disclose what type of APR they have and what it is. If a fixed APR changes, they must also alert consumers of that.Some credit cards have fixed APRs for purchases but variable APRs for cash advances or late payments. Read the fine print to make sure.




What is a credit card annual fee?
The annual fee on a credit card is the fee charged by the card issuer to extend the credit card to you. Some cards don’t charge an annual fee, but others—most often cards that offer rewards or incentives like cash back—can charge annual fees ranging from $50 to $700.
What Is a Credit Card Balance?  

A credit card balance is the total amount of money currently owed by a cardholder to their credit card company. Balances change based on when and how they are used—they increase when purchases are made and decrease when cardholders make payments. Any remaining balance at the end of the billing cycle is carried over to the next month’s bill and incurs an interest charge. Credit card balances are important factors in calculating a person’s credit score. Future creditors look at them to determine the risk (and cost) of granting their customers additional credit.





Key Takeaways

A credit card balance is the total amount of money that you currently owe on your credit card. The balance increases when purchases are made and decreases when payments are made.Purchases, balance transfers, foreign exchange, fees, and interest all factor into your credit card balance. Credit card balances can increase your credit utilization ratio, which can decrease your credit score.A credit card balance shouldn't be confused with a statement balance, which is the amount printed on the statement by your card issuer. 


   Understanding Credit Card Balances  

Credit cards are payment cards that allow individuals and business owners to make purchases without having to immediately fork over any cash. They give cardholders the chance to pay for their goods and services later while providing them with a secure and safer method to shop. Unlike cash, credit cards are generally accepted worldwide and may offer incentives like points or cashback.



The balance on your credit card is the total amount of money you owe to your credit card issuer. This amount changes each month based on how you use your card. It is made up of different factors, including:



Purchases
Balance transfers
Foreign exchange
Fees such as late payment charges, returned payment charges, and forex and balance transfer fees
Annual fees and cash advance fees
Interest charges



Payments are also a key component of your credit card balance and it's always advisable to pay off your statement balance in full before the due date. If you make only the minimum payment, the remaining balance rolls over into the next billing cycle. You incur interest on whatever remains, which is reflected on your next statement.



New credit card balances are commonly updated anywhere from 24 to 72 hours once a purchase or payment is processed. The length of time depends on the credit card company and how the transaction was executed.






If you return an item purchased on your credit card, the merchant will issue a refund to your account. This amount is also reflected in your credit card balance. The length of time for a refund to be generated depends on the retailer and the type of purchase but it generally takes anywhere from a few to 15 days for the refund to be applied to your balance. If you had any points or cashback, that amount will be deducted.


   Special Considerations  
  Paying Down Your Balance  

The best approach to managing your credit card (and, therefore, your credit) effectively is to pay your balance off in full. A zero balance helps avoid the interest charges associated with maintaining a balance. If you have no other option, try paying more than the minimum monthly payment, as this knocks off more of the balance and accumulates less interest that you'll owe to the card issuer.



But sometimes, it’s just not that simple. You may find yourself in a situation where you can only make the minimum payment. If you do that, know that it will take a long time to pay off the balance. Although you'll pay more in interest, you won't damage your credit score.



You can keep your credit score intact or improve it by paying the bill before the card issuer reports to the credit reporting agency. Doing so ensures that there's a lower balance reported to the credit bureaus each month.



If you’re having trouble fully paying off your credit card balance each month, then it may be worth switching to a balance transfer credit card to secure a lower interest rate.






Late payments can add up if you're having trouble paying your bills each month. Payment history accounts for 35% to 40% of your credit score depending on which score your lender uses.


  Balances and Credit Scores  

Carrying a credit card balance generally isn’t a good idea because it can affect your credit score. Revolving credit (credit cards and lines of credit) factors into your credit utilization ratio, which is the total amount of credit you use at a particular time divided by the total amount you have available or the sum of all your credit limits. It's a good idea to have a ratio of under 30%.



If you have a credit limit of $5,000 and keep a balance of $4,000 on your credit card, then your credit utilization is 80%, which is extremely high. This tells creditors that you aren’t responsible. As such, you may be deemed high risk for defaulting on any future debt. So the chances of getting a new loan or credit card may be slim. If you keep your ratio down, it suggests that you're better able to manage credit responsibly.



Keeping a high credit card balance can make you financially vulnerable in other ways, too. You won't be able to use your card in an emergency if you maintain a high balance, especially if it's too close to your credit limit. You're also at risk of paying additional interest and/or late fees if your debt increases to an amount that you can't maintain.






Talk to your credit card company to see if you qualify for an automatic increase of your credit limit. This can effectively drop your credit utilization ratio down. But keep in mind that your card issuer may have to pull a hard inquiry if you don't, which means your score may drop as a result.


   Credit Card Balance vs. Statement Balance  

Your credit card balance is the total that you owe today. As such, it's also called your current balance. This figure is different from your statement balance, which is the amount that is reflected on your bill. This figure is calculated at the end of the billing cycle (up to the closing date) and printed on your bill. You will see this noted as the new balance on the statement.



To keep your credit card in good standing, pay this amount or the minimum payment listed on the statement. If you pay off the statement balance each month, you avoid paying interest on your purchases altogether. The statement balance does not include any charges incurred or payments made on the credit card after the statement closing date.
What Is a Credit Card Dump?  

A credit card dump is a type of crime in which the criminal makes an unauthorized digital copy of a credit card. This type of crime has existed for decades, but it has seen wider public awareness in recent years due to the rising prevalence of credit card forgeries, identity theft, and other types of cybercrime.





Key Takeaways

A credit card dump is a type of crime in which credit card information is stolen from customers and made available to potential buyers.Thieves do so either by physically copying data from the card or by hacking the payments network of the companies in question.In recent years, criminals have undertaken increasingly large scale credit card dump attacks, sometimes with millions of victims.


   How Credit Card Dumps Work  

There are many ways in which a credit card dump might occur. One common method is skimming, in which an illegal card reader, sometimes hidden in a legitimate automated teller machine (ATM) or gas station pump, copies the data from a credit card. In other cases, cybercriminals are able to obtain a large number of card numbers at once, by compromising the computer systems of companies handling customer credit card information. For example, criminals might access thousands of retail customers’ credit card numbers by infecting the point-of-sale (POS) devices of a large retail chain. 



Although measures such as personal information numbers (PINs) and security chips can help make this theft more difficult, hackers nonetheless continue to find new ways to exploit weaknesses in the electronic payments system in order to capture valuable credit card information. To profit from this theft, cybercriminals resell the credit card information on the black market. Alternatively, hackers could also use the information themselves in order to make unauthorized online purchases using stolen credit cards.


   Protecting Against Credit Card Dumps  

Ultimately, consumers have limited means to protect themselves against the risk of cybercrime. After all, even the most cautious individuals might fall victim to credit card theft if hackers manage to compromise the systems of the companies where they shop. Nevertheless, there are steps individuals can take to reduce some of their risks. These include refraining from sharing their credit card information with others, keeping their credit cards close at hand when in public places, checking for any suspicious objects on or around ATMs, gas pumps, and POS machines; and regularly reviewing their credit card statements for any unfamiliar transactions.


   Examples of Credit Card Dumps  

Unfortunately, there is no shortage of examples in which hackers managed to compromise vast amounts of credit card data from unsuspecting customers. Here are just a few examples:



Capital One, the fifth-largest credit card issuer in the United States, revealed in July 2019 that a hacker accessed the personal information of around 106 million customers and applicants in the U.S. and Canada. The information that was accessed included highly personal details on consumers and small businesses, including names, social security numbers, income, and dates of birth as of the time they applied for one of several credit card products from 2005 through early 2019. To date, the Capital One hack is the second-largest such data dump of all time.



Data dumps don't only happen in America. In May 2019, for example, the popular Australian graphic design website, Canva, was breached by hackers, with nearly 140 million user accounts compromised. In addition to personal information such as names, usernames, and email addresses, the hackers also managed to access users’ credit card information.



Another notable incident occurred in October 2013, when Adobe (ADBE) lost nearly 3 million customer credit card records in a large scale attack by hackers. The breach was part of a larger effort in which data from over 150 million users was also stolen. The company ultimately reached a roughly $1 million settlement with its customers over the incident.









What Was the Biggest Credit Card Dump to Date?
In terms of the number of customers exposed, the largest credit card dump so far was a hack on credit bureau Equifax in September of 2017, which exposed personal data of more than 147 million customers, including credit card details.




What Was the First Credit Card Dump?
Card theft, scams, and black markets for personal IDs have been around since the advent of credit cards in the 1960s and '70s. The first large-scale credit card dump, however, is often attributed to the year 1984, when the New York Times reported that the password for a leading credit union, TRW, was stolen from a Sears store on the West Coast. That password unlocked the credit histories and personal information of many Sears customers that would subsequently be used to obtain their credit card numbers.




How Can I Avoid Being a Victim of a Credit Card Dump?
Unfortunately, since credit card dumps involve security breaches of companies that you may shop at, having your card numbers stolen may be out of your hands. If you are aware of a breach, contact your credit card issuer immediately to put a freeze on your account and cancel & replace your cards.Another, newer, innovation is the use of virtual credit card numbers. Many banks and card companies today allow you to generate a temporary credit card number online that can be used for online shopping. This number, however, would not be able to be used again for subsequent purchases.
What Is a Credit Default Swap (CDS)?  

A credit default swap (CDS) is a financial derivative that allows an investor to swap or offset their credit risk with that of another investor. To swap the risk of default, the lender buys a CDS from another investor who agrees to reimburse them if the borrower defaults.



Most CDS contracts are maintained via an ongoing premium payment similar to the regular premiums due on an insurance policy. A lender who is worried about a borrower defaulting on a loan often uses a CDS to offset or swap that risk.





Key Takeaways

A credit default swap (CDS) is a type of derivative that transfers the credit exposure of fixed income products.In a credit default swap contract, the buyer pays an ongoing premium similar to the payments on an insurance policy. In exchange, the seller agrees to pay the security's value and interest payments if a default occurs.In 2023, the estimated size of the U.S. CDS market was over $4.3 trillion.Credit default swaps can be used for speculation, hedging, or as a form of arbitrage.Credit default swaps played a role in both the 2008 Great Recession and the 2010 European Sovereign Debt Crisis.


   How Credit Default Swaps (CDSs) Work  

A credit default swap is a derivative contract that transfers the credit exposure of fixed income products. It may involve bonds or forms of securitized debt—derivatives of loans sold to investors.



For example, suppose a company sells a bond with a $100 face value and a 10-year maturity to an investor. The company might agree to pay back the $100 at the end of the 10-year period with regular interest payments throughout the bond's life.



Because the debt issuer cannot guarantee that it will be able to repay the premium, the investor assumes the risk. The debt buyer can purchase a CDS to transfer the risk to another investor, who agrees to pay them in the event the debt issuer defaults on its obligation.






In August 2023, Fitch Ratings downgraded the long-term ratings of the United States to "AA+" from "AAA" due to the anticipated fiscal deterioration over the next three years, increasing government debt burden, and the erosion of governance related to 'AA' and 'AAA' rated peers over the last two decades that has resulted in repeat debt limit standoffs and 11th-hour resolutions.



Debt securities often have longer terms to maturity, making it harder for investors to estimate the investment risk. For instance, a mortgage can have terms of 30 years. There is no way to tell whether the borrower will be able to continue making payments that long.



That's why these contracts are a popular way to manage risk. The CDS buyer pays the CDS seller until the contract's maturity date. In return, the CDS seller agrees that it will pay the CDS buyer the security's value as well as all interest payments that would have been paid between that time and the maturity date if there is a credit event.


  Credit Events  

The credit event is a trigger that causes the CDS buyer to settle the contract. Credit events are agreed upon when the CDS is purchased and are part of the contract. The majority of single-name CDSs are traded with the following credit events as triggers:



Reference entity default other than failure to pay: An event where the issuing entity defaults for a reason that is not a failure to pay
Failure to pay: The reference entity fails to make payments
Obligation acceleration: When contract obligations are moved, such as when the issuer needs to pay debts earlier than anticipated
Repudiation: A dispute in the contract validity
Moratorium: A suspension of the contract until the issues that led to the suspension are resolved
Obligation restructuring: When the underlying loans are restructured
Government intervention: Actions taken by the government that affect the contract





Size of the Credit Derivatives Market


   Terms of a CDS  

When purchased to provide insurance on an investment, CDSs do not necessarily need to cover the investment for its lifetime. For example, imagine an investor is two years into a 10-year security and thinks that the issuer is in credit trouble. The bond owner may buy a credit default swap with a five-year term that would protect the investment until the seventh year, when the bondholder believes the risks will fade.


  Settlement  

When a credit event occurs, the contract may be settled physically, historically the most common method, or by cash. In a physical settlement, sellers receive an actual bond from the buyer. Cash settlement, though, became the more preferred method when the purpose of CDSs shifted from hedging tools to speculation. In this type of settlement, the seller is responsible for paying the buyer for losses.






The U.S. Comptroller of the Currency issues a quarterly report on credit derivatives. In a report regarding the first quarter of 2023, it placed the size of the entire credit derivative market at $5 trillion, over $4.3 trillion of which were CDSs.


   When Are CDSs Used?  

As an insurance policy against a credit event on an underlying asset, credit default swaps are used in several ways.


  Speculation  

Because swaps are traded, they naturally have fluctuating market values that a CDS trader can profit from. Investors buy and sell CDSs from each other, attempting to profit from the difference in prices.


  Hedging  

A credit default swap by itself is a form of hedging. A bank might purchase a CDS to hedge against the risk of the borrower defaulting. Insurance companies, pension funds, and other securities holders can purchase CDSs to hedge credit risk.


  Arbitrage  

Arbitrage generally involves purchasing a security in one market and selling it in another. CDSs can be used in arbitrage—an investor can purchase a bond in one market, then buy a CDS on the same reference entity on the CDS market.






A credit default swap is the most common form of credit derivative and may involve municipal bonds, emerging market bonds, mortgage-backed securities (MBS), or corporate bonds.


   The Great Recession  

CDSs played a key role in the credit crisis that eventually led to the Great Recession. Credit default swaps were issued by American International Group (AIG), Bear Sterns, and Lehman Brothers to investors to protect against losses if the mortgages that were securitized into mortgage-backed securities (MBS) defaulted.



Mortgage-backed securities are mortgages bundled into packages and then offered as shares. The CDSs were insurance against mortgage defaults, so investors believed that they had completely reduced the risk of loss if the worst were to happen.



Mortgages were given to nearly anyone that requested them because investment banks and real estate investors were generating huge returns as housing prices continued to climb. CDSs allowed investment banks to create synthetic collateralized debt obligation instruments, which were bets on securitized mortgage prices.






Because these investment banks were so entwined in global markets, their insolvency caused global markets to waver and ushered in the financial crisis of 2007-2008.



Many investment banks issued MBSs, CDSs, and CDOs: they were all betting on the performance of their own mortgage security derivatives. When housing prices collapsed, the big players could not pay all of their obligations because they owed each other and investors more money than they had.


   European Sovereign Debt Crisis  

Credit default swaps were widely used during the European sovereign debt crisis. For example, investors purchased Greece's sovereign debt through sovereign bonds to help the country raise money. They also purchased CDSs to protect their capital in case the country defaulted.



Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Cyprus, and Spain all nearly collapsed financially during this time.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of CDSs  
  Advantages Explained  

Reduces risk to lenders: CDSs can be purchased by the lender, which acts as a form of insurance designed to protect the lender and pass the risk on to the issuer.No underlying asset exposure: You're not required to purchase underlying fixed-income assets.Sellers can spread risk: CDSs pass the risk of defaulting on payments to the issuer. They can also sell multiple swaps to spread risk further.


  Disadvantages Explained  

Can give lenders and investors a false sense of security: Investment insurance makes investors feel they don't have any risk with the investment.Traded over-the-counter: While CDSs reduce risk, they are prone to additional risk because they are traded on OTC markets.Seller inherits substantial risks: The CDS seller inherits the risk of the borrower defaulting.





Advantages

Can reduce risk to lenders
No underlying asset exposure
Sellers can spread risk



Disadvantages

Can give lenders and investors a false sense of security
Traded over-the-counter
Seller inherits substantial risk







What Triggers a Credit Default Swap?
The CDS provider must pay the swap purchaser if the underlying investment, usually a loan, is subject to a credit event.




Is a Credit Default Swap Legal?
Credit default swaps are not illegal, but they are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Dodd-Frank Act.




What Are the Benefits of Credit Default Swaps?
Credit default swaps are beneficial for two main reasons: hedging risk and speculation. To hedge risk, investors buy credit default swaps to add a layer of insurance to protect a bond, such as a mortgage-backed security, from defaulting on its payments. In turn, a third party assumes the risk in exchange for a premium. By contrast, when investors speculate on credit default swaps, they are betting on the credit quality of the reference entity.


   The Bottom Line  

Credit default swaps are sold to investors to mitigate the risks of underlying asset defaults. They were highly used in the past to reduce the risks of investing in mortgage-backed securities and fixed income products, which contributed to the Financial Crisis of 2007-2008 and the European Sovereign Debt Crisis.



Investors still use them, but trading has been significantly reduced due to regulations enacted in 2010. However, the notional amounts of global credit derivatives increased to $5 trillion (19.8% or $838 billion) in the first quarter of 2023, with credit default swaps trading at $4.3 trillion, or 86.1% of all credit derivative notional amounts.
What Is a Credit Facility?  

A credit facility is a type of loan made in a business or corporate finance context. It allows the borrowing business to take out money over an extended period of time rather than reapplying for a loan each time it needs money. In effect, a credit facility lets a company take out an umbrella loan for generating capital over an extended period of time.



Various types of credit facilities include revolving loan facilities, committed facilities, letters of credit, and most retail credit accounts.





Key Takeaways


A credit facility is an agreement between a lender and a borrower that allows for greater flexibility than traditional loans.
Types of credit facilities include revolving loan facilities, retail credit facilities (like credit cards), committed facilities, letters of credit, and most retail credit accounts.
A credit facility often allows a company to have greater control over the amount and timing of debt, as well as the use of funds, than other types of lending agreements.
However, a credit facility usually comes with debt covenants, additional maintenance fees, withdrawal fees, and is more difficult to secure.
Credit facilities' terms and particulars, like those of credit cards or personal loans, are dependent on the financial condition of the borrowing business and its unique credit history.



   How Credit Facilities Work  

Credit facilities are used broadly across the financial market as a way to provide funding for different purposes. Companies frequently implement a credit facility in conjunction with closing a round of equity financing or raising money by selling shares of their stock. A key consideration for any company is how it will incorporate debt in its capital structure while considering the parameters of its equity financing.



The company may take out a credit facility based on collateral that may be sold or substituted without altering the terms of the original contract. The facility may apply to different projects or departments in the business and be distributed at the company’s discretion. The period for repaying the loan is flexible and, like other loans, depends on the credit situation of the business and how well it has paid off debts in the past.



The summary of a facility includes a brief discussion of the facility’s origin, the purpose of the loan, and how funds are distributed. Specific precedents on which the facility rests are included as well. For example, statements of collateral for secured loans or particular borrower responsibilities may be discussed.






A credit facility isn't debt. A credit facility gives the holder the right to demand loan funds in the future, and the borrower is only indebted when they draw on the credit facility.


   Credit Facility Details  

A credit facility agreement details the borrower’s responsibilities, loan warranties, lending amounts, interest rates, loan duration, default penalties, and repayment terms and conditions. The contract opens with the basic contact information for each of the parties involved, followed by a summary and definition of the credit facility itself.


  Repayment Terms  

The terms of interest payments, repayments, and loan maturity are detailed. They include the interest rates and date for repayment, if a term loan, or the minimum payment amount, and recurring payment dates, if a revolving loan. The agreement details whether interest rates may change and specifies the date on which the loan matures, if applicable.


  Legal Provisions  

The credit facility agreement addresses the legalities that may arise under specific loan conditions, such as a company defaulting on a loan payment or requesting a cancellation. The section details penalties the borrower faces in the event of a default and steps the borrower takes to remedy the default. A choice of law clause itemizes particular laws or jurisdictions consulted in case of future contract disputes.


   Types of Credit Facilities  

Credit facilities come in a variety of forms. Some of the most common include:



A retail credit facility is a method of financing—essentially, a type of loan or line of credit—used by retailers and real estate companies. Credit cards are a form of retail credit facility.



A revolving loan facility is a type of loan issued by a financial institution that gives the borrower the flexibility to draw down or withdraw, repay, and withdraw again. Essentially it's a line of credit, with a variable (fluctuating) interest rate.



A committed facility is a source for short- or long-term financing agreements in which the creditor is committed to providing a loan to a company—given the company meets specific requirements set forth by the lending institution. The funds are provided up to a maximum limit for a specified period and at an agreed interest rate. Term loans are a typical type of committed facility.





Note

A credit facility can either be classified as short-term or long-term. Short-term credit facilities often use inventory or operating receivables as collateral and have more favorable loan terms due to their short-term nature. Long-term credit facilities are more costly to compensate for risk, although they offer a company the greatest flexibility.


   Pros and Cons of Credit Facilities  

Credit facilities or other lines of credit offer tremendous flexibility for companies that aren't sure what their future credit needs will be. However, securing this type of line of credit may be difficult and expensive. Here are the advantages and disadvantages to a credit facility.





Pros

Provides a company financial flexibility
Strengthens the relationship between a financial institution and a company
Often increases the credit rating of a company
May require less administrative burden to secure future debt



Cons

Often results in added maintenance and withdrawal fees
May be difficult for younger or riskier companies to secure
Often requires a burdensome process to secure
May require additional administrative burden to maintain loan covenants





  Pros of credit facilities explained  

Provides a company financial flexibility: When a company wants to take out a traditional loan, it must often cite a specific reason, determine a specific amount, and identify a specific time frame for the debt to occur. Credit facilities are available upon demand or don't have to be used at all.Strengthens the relationship between a financial institution and a company: A credit facility is also usually established between a company and financial institution that have a strong business relationship. By partnering with a bank (or syndicate of lenders), the company holding the credit facility may generate favorable terms with the lender.Often increases the credit rating of a company: Companies that secure a credit facility may see a boost in their creditworthiness with other lenders.May require less administrative burden to secure future debt: If the company wants to secure other debt or additional lines of credit, already having secured a credit facility potentially eases the administrative burden.



Though credit facilities are generally not used to support day-to-day operations and ensure a company's survival, a credit facility gives a company more resources to thrive operationally. Saving operating cash flow for strategic expansion allows the company to grow, while credit facility cash flow can be used for one-time or emergencies.





Note

A credit facility also bolsters a company's ability to remain solvent, should its business be cyclical or seasonal.


  Cons of credit facilities explained  

Often results in added maintenance and withdrawal fees: To compensate for the flexibility of a line of credit, a company must often pay additional fees for the debt. While lender fees vary from agreement to agreement, there may be monthly maintenance fees, annual administrative agency fees, and one-time setup fees to create the line of credit.
May be difficult for younger or riskier companies to secure: Lenders will want to see multiple years of business history and positive creditworthiness as part of the application.
Often requires a burdensome process to secure: The lender will often inspect a company's formation documents, organization structure, industry performance, cash flow projections, and tax returns. After pulling on a line of credit, the company is often entered into an installment plan agreement requiring ongoing maintenance.
May require additional administrative burden to maintain loan covenants: A company may experience extra administrative work with a credit facility. As part of the loan agreement, a company must often track and maintain financial covenants and disclose certain metrics as part of external financial reporting.


   Credit Facility Example  

In 2019, Tradeweb Markets collaborated with financial institutions to secure a $500 million revolving credit facility. Proceeds from the facility were intended to be used for general corporate purposes, and the lead legal arranger for the facility was Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP. As of Dec. 31, 2022, Tradeweb Markets had drawn down $500 million with remaining availability of $499.5 million.



Due to the significant size of this credit facility, the indebtedness is with a syndicate of banks, with the lead administrative agent being Citibank, N.A. The credit agreement imposes a maximum total net leverage ratio and minimum cash interest coverage ratio requirement. Subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, Tradeweb Markets can increase the credit facility by an additional $250 million with consent from all syndicate lenders.



In the example, Tradeweb Markets also notes risks related to this indebtedness, including:



"The credit agreement that governs the Revolving Credit Facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries."Any borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility will subject us to interest rate risk."The phase-out, replacement, or unavailability of LIBOR and/or other interest rate benchmarks could adversely affect our indebtedness."




What Are the Types of Credit Facilities?
There are several credit facilities a company can secure. A revolving loan facility allows a company to take out a loan, repay the loan, then use the same loan agreement again as long as there are principal funds available to borrow. A retail credit facility is often used to provide liquidity for cyclical companies that rely on inventory or high turnover of sales. A committed credit facility is a specifically negotiated set of terms that obligates a lender to lend money to a borrower, should the borrowing company meet specific criteria.




What Is the Difference Between a Loan and a Credit Facility?
A loan is often a more rigid agreement between a bank and a borrower. The borrower usually receives the funds upfront and then repays it with interest. A credit facility is more flexible, as the agreement allows a borrower to take on debt only when they need the funds.




What Is a Credit Card Facility?
A credit card facility is different than a credit facility. The term credit card facility is often used to describe features of a credit card that a cardholder receives when a credit card is opened. For example, a credit card may come with technology allowing for transactions to be automatically paid, split into tracking categories, or transferred to other cards.




Is Credit Facility Used in Debt?
A credit facility is a way for a company to take on debt. It's an agreement between a company and a lender that, should the company need funds, it can draw on the facility and borrow money. Just because a company has a credit facility doesn't mean it has incurred debt. A credit facility simply grants the company the right to take on loan funds.


   The Bottom Line  

A credit facility is an agreement between a lender and a borrower that allows for greater flexibility than traditional loans. Types of these include revolving loan facilities, retail credit facilities (like credit cards), committed facilities, letters of credit, and most retail credit accounts. A credit facility often allows a company more control over the amount and timing of debt, as well as the use of funds, than other types of lending agreements.



On the downside, a credit facility usually comes with debt covenants, additional maintenance fees, withdrawal fees, and is more difficult to secure. Credit facilities' terms and particulars, as with most loans, depend on the financial condition of the borrowing company and its credit history.
What Is a Credit Limit?  

A credit limit is the maximum amount of credit a financial institution extends to a client on a credit card or a line of credit. Lenders usually set credit limits based on specific information about the credit-seeking applicant, including their income and employment status. Credit limits are an important factor that can affect consumers' credit scores and their ability to obtain credit in the future.





Key Takeaways

A credit limit is the maximum amount of credit you receive from a financial institution.Products like credit cards and lines of credit have credit limits.Lenders usually set credit limits based on the information in a consumer's credit report, among other factors.High-risk borrowers generally have lower credit limits, while lower-risk borrowers typically receive higher credit limits.It is usually not ideal to use your maximum credit limit.


   How a Credit Limit Works  

A credit limit is the maximum amount of money a lender will allow you to spend using a particular credit card or revolving line of credit. Lenders set those limits based on several factors, including your credit score, personal income, and loan repayment history. Lenders generally offer higher limits to borrowers they view as lower risks.



Credit limits can apply to both secured and unsecured credit. If the line of credit is secured, or backed by collateral, the lender takes the value of the collateral into account and may offer a higher limit. For example, if you take out a home equity line of credit (HELOC), your credit limit will be based, in part, on the equity in your home.



Lenders will generally issue higher credit limits to creditors they consider to be lower risk and put lower credit limits on riskier borrowers.



A credit limit works the same way regardless of whether you have a credit card or a line of credit. You can spend up to the credit limit. If you exceed the credit limit, you may face fines or penalties on top of your regular payment. If the you spend less than the limit, you can continue to use the card or line of credit until you reach the limit.






A downside to high credit limits is that they can potentially lead to overspending, to the point where you cannot afford your monthly payments.


   Credit Limit vs. Available Credit  

A credit limit and available credit are not the same. The credit limit is the total amount you can borrow, whereas available credit is the amount that is remaining for you to use, including if you carry a balance.



For example, if you have a credit card with a $1,000 credit limit, and you charge $600, you have an additional $400 to spend. If you make a $40 payment, your balance would fall to $560, and you would then have $440 in available credit.


   How Credit Limits Affect Your Credit Score  

Your credit limits can have an impact on your credit score, an important number that lenders use to decide whether to issue you new credit and what interest rate to charge you for it. That's because your credit utilization ratio, or the amount of debt you have outstanding at any given time as a percentage of the total credit you have access to, is one of the factors that goes into computing your score.



The lower that percentage, the better. So it pays to be aware of your credit limits and try to keep your borrowing well beneath them. Generally speaking, lenders look unfavorably on a credit utilization ratio that exceeds 30%.


   Can Lenders Change Your Credit Limit?  

In most cases, lenders reserve the right to change credit limits, either raising or lowering them. If you pay your bills on time every month and do not max out a credit card or line of credit, the lender may increase your credit limit.



An increased credit limit has a number of benefits, including potentially increasing your credit score by lowering your credit utilization ratio. It also gives you access to more credit if you should need it, such as in an unexpected emergency.



On the other hand, if you fail to make regular, timely payments, or if there are other signs of risk, the lender may opt to reduce your credit limit. A reduction of your credit limit will raise your credit utilization ratio and potentially damage your credit score. If a lender decides to lower your credit limit, it is generally required to notify you.




What is Available Credit?
Available credit is the unused portion of a credit limit. So, if you have a total credit limit of $10,000 on your credit card and you have used $5,000, you would have the remaining $5,000 as available credit. Available credit can fluctuate throughout the billing cycle based on account usage.




What Is a Credit Score?
A credit score is a calculated value that serves as a proxy for your creditworthiness or ability and likelihood that you will repay any debts on time according to the terms of the loan agreement. Credit scores are generated based on information collected by credit reporting agencies such as Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion. They use formulas that assign weights to factors like payment history, amounts owed, length of credit history, and credit utilization.




Why Does a Credit Limit Matter?
A credit limit matters because it dictates how much money you can access to pay for expenses. You need to know your credit limit when you make purchases, so you do not go over the limit and incur fees. A merchant in that situation may also refuse to accept your card. In addition, your collective credit limits can impact your credit score, which is based in part on how much of your available credit you are using at any given time.


   The Bottom Line  

Credit limits can play a key role in your financial picture, and they are different for each person and for each financial product. If you use your credit according to your lender's terms, and avoid exceeding (or even coming too close to) your limits, you are more likely to establish a good credit history, which can open up other financial opportunities.
What Is a Credit-Linked Note?  

A credit-linked note (CLN) is a security with an embedded credit default swap permitting the issuer to shift specific credit risk to credit investors. Credit-linked notes are created through a special purpose vehicle (SPV), or trust, which is collateralized with AAA-rated securities. Investors buy credit-linked notes from a trust that pays a fixed or floating coupon during the life of the note. In return for accepting exposure to specified credit risks, investors who buy credit-linked notes typically earn a higher rate of return compared to other bonds.





Key Takeaways

A credit-linked note (CLN) is a financial instrument that allows the issuer to transfer specific credit risks to credit investors.A credit default swap is a financial derivative or contract that allows issuers of credit-linked notes to shift or "swap" their credit risk to another investor.Issuers of credit-linked notes use them to hedge against the risk of a specific credit event that could cause them to lose money, such as when a borrower defaults on a loan.Investors who buy credit-linked notes generally earn a higher yield on the note in return for accepting exposure to specified credit risks.


   Understanding Credit-Linked Notes (CLN)  

Based on the fact that credit-linked notes are backed by specified loans, there is an innate risk of default associated with the security. To create a credit-linked note, a loan must be issued to a customer. Meanwhile, an institution may choose to hold the loan and earn income based on interest payments received as the loan is repaid, or it may sell the loan to another institution.



In the latter option, loans are sold to an SPV or trust, which ultimately divides the loan into various parts, often bundling similar parts together based on the overall risk or rating. The bundled parts are used to create securities that investors can purchase.



At maturity, the investors receive par unless the referenced credit defaults or declares bankruptcy, in which case they receive an amount equal to the recovery rate. The trust enters into a default swap with a deal arranger.


   Credit-Linked Notes as Investments  

A credit-linked note functions similarly to a bond in that payments are made semi-annually, but with a credit default swap attached. The SPV or trust pays the dealer par minus the recovery rate in exchange for an annual fee, which is passed on to the investors in the form of a higher yield on the notes.



Under this structure, the coupon, or price of the note, is linked to the performance of a reference asset. It offers borrowers a hedge against credit risk and gives investors a higher yield on the note for accepting exposure to a specified credit event.


   Special Considerations  

The use of a credit default swap allows the risk associated with default to be sold to other parties and provides a function similar to insurance. Investors generally receive a higher rate of return than on other bonds as compensation for the additional risk associated with the security.



In case of default, all involved parties including the SPV or trust, investors and, at times, the original lender are at risk for losses. The amount of loss experienced will vary depending on the number of loans, or parts of loans, present in the security, how many of the associated loans end up in default, and how many investors are participating in the particular security packages.
What Is a Credit Rating?  

A credit rating is an independent assessment of a company's or government entity's creditworthiness in general terms or with respect to a particular debt or financial obligation. Credit ratings are issued by organizations such as S&P Global, Moody's, or Fitch Ratings. They differ from credit scores, which are assigned to individuals.





Key Takeaways

A credit rating is an independent assessment of the creditworthiness of a business or government entity in general terms or with respect to a specific financial obligation, such as a new bond issue.Credit ratings assess how likely an issuer (the borrower) is to pay back investors (the lenders) and the interest rate it may have to pay in return.Credit ratings are conferred as letter grades, ranging from A at the top to C or D at the bottom.The three major credit rating agencies are Fitch Ratings, Moody's Investors Service, and S&P Global Ratings.


   Understanding Credit Ratings  

Credit ratings represent an attempt to estimate the level of risk involved in investing in or lending money to a particular business or other entity, including national and state governments and government agencies.



A high credit rating indicates that, in the rating agency's opinion, a bond issuer is likely to repay its debts to investors without difficulty. A poor credit rating suggests it might struggle to make its payments or even fail to make them.



Investors and lenders use credit ratings to decide whether to do business with the rated entity and to determine how much interest they would expect to receive to compensate them for the risk involved. For example, bonds issued by an entity with a high credit rating are likely to pay less interest than those issued by one with a lower rating.






Credit rating agencies typically assign letter grades to the entities they rate. S&P Global, for instance, has a credit rating scale ranging from AAA (excellent) down to C and D.



Credit ratings can also reflect different time horizons. Short-term credit ratings reflect the likelihood that a borrower will default on a debt within the year. This type of credit rating has become the norm in recent years, whereas long-term credit ratings were more influential in the past. Long-term credit ratings predict the borrower's likelihood of defaulting at any given time in the extended future.


   A Brief History of Credit Ratings  

Credit ratings date back to the early 20th century. They became particularly influential after 1936 when federal banking regulators issued new rules prohibiting banks from investing in speculative bonds—bonds with low credit ratings.



The aim was to avoid the risk of default, which could lead to financial losses and even bank failures. Other companies and financial institutions quickly adopted this practice. Soon enough, relying on credit ratings became the norm.


   The Major Credit Rating Agencies  

The global credit rating industry is highly concentrated, with three agencies controlling most of the market: Moody’s, S&P Global, and Fitch Ratings. All three are Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSROs) overseen by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Here is a quick overview of each.


  Fitch Ratings  

John Knowles Fitch founded the Fitch Publishing Company in 1913, providing financial statistics for the investment industry via "The Fitch Stock and Bond Manual" and "The Fitch Bond Book." In 1924, Fitch introduced an AAA through D rating system.



Nearly a century later, Fitch Ratings employs more than 1,550 analysts, with 36 global offices.


  Moody’s Investors Service  

John Moody first published "Moody's Manual of Industrial and Miscellaneous Securities" in 1900. The manual provided basic statistics and general information about stocks and bonds of companies in several industries but not ratings. In 1909, Moody began publishing "Moody's Analyses of Railroad Investments," which, for the first time, rated many railway company securities, then a major segment of the investment market. Five years later, Moody began offering similar ratings for public utilities and other industries.



Today, Moody's Investors Service is a global enterprise with more than 40 offices providing ratings and research on companies and governments across the world.


  S&P Global  

S&P Global's roots date back to 1860, when Henry Varnum Poor published the "History of Railroads and Canals in the United States," providing investors with data on the railway industry. Nearly half a century later, in 1906, Luther Lee Blake launched the Standard Statistics Bureau, which offered similar data on companies in other industries.



Poor's Publishing issued its first credit ratings in 1916, and Standard Statistics followed in 1922. The two organizations merged in 1941 to form Standard & Poor's Corporation.



Standard & Poor's Corporation was acquired by the McGraw-Hill Companies in 1966, and in 2016, the company rebranded as S&P Global. Today, S&P Global has more than 70 offices in 35 countries.


   Importance of Credit Ratings  

Credit ratings are important not only for prospective investors but for the entities that they rate. A high rating can give a company or government access to the capital it needs at interest rates it can afford. A low one can mean that the borrower might have to pay much higher rates—if it can access capital at all.



The entities themselves typically request that they, or the securities they issue, be rated, and they pay the rating agencies for doing so.


   Credit Ratings Scale  

While each rating agency uses a slightly different scale, they assign ratings as letter grades. A rating of AAA is the highest possible credit rating, while a C or D rating is the lowest.



The rating scales for long-term debt at the three leading agencies are illustrated below:










Credit Ratings Scale: Highest to Lowest




 S & P Global
Moody's
 Fitch Ratings


 AAA
 Aaa
 AAA


 AA
 Aa
 AA


 A
 A
 A


 BBB
 Baa
 BBB


 BB
Ba
 BB


 B
B
 B


 CCC
Caa
 CCC


 CC
Ca
 CC


 C
C
 C


 D

 RD




D






Note that there can be further divisions in each letter rating. For example, S&P assigns a + or - for ratings between CCC and AA, indicating a slightly higher or lower level of creditworthiness. For Moody's, the distinction is made by adding a number between 1 and 3: A Baa2 rating is slightly better than a Baa3 and slightly worse than a Baa1.



All three credit rating agencies divide their ratings into two general categories based on their assessed level of risk. For S&P Global, ratings of BBB and higher are considered investment grade, while grades of BB and lower are considered speculative. For Moody's, Baa3 and up is investment grade, while Ba1 and below is non-investment grade. With Fitch, BBB and higher is investment grade, with BB and lower being speculative.


   Factors That Go Into Credit Ratings  

Credit rating agencies consider a wide range of factors in forming their opinions, and they each have their own formulas. In general, these are some of the major factors that can influence the credit rating of a company or government borrower:



The entity's payment history, including any missed payments or past defaultsThe amount it currently owes and the types of debt it hasCurrent cash flows and incomeThe overall market or economic outlookAny unique issues that might prevent timely repayment of debts



Note that credit ratings involve some judgment calls on the part of the agency and are subject to change. Even an entity with a spotless payment history can be downgraded if the rating agency believes its ability to make repayments will be impaired.




What's the Difference Between Credit Ratings and Credit Scores?
Credit ratings are risk assessments of businesses and governments, expressed as letter grades. For example, sovereign credit ratings apply to national governments, while corporate credit ratings apply to corporations. Credit scores, on the other hand, apply to individuals and are reported as a number, generally ranging from 300 to 850.




What Does a Credit Rating Tell an Investor?
A credit rating is essentially an educated opinion by a credit rating agency of how financially solid a particular entity is and how likely it is to be able to repay its debts. Investors can use that information when deciding whether to buy the securities issued by that entity and whether they will be adequately compensated for the level of risk involved. Investors can also compare the ratings given to different entities or securities the same entity offers.




What Is a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization?
Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSROs) are credit rating agencies registered with and overseen by the Office of Credit Ratings (OCR) in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The OCR was created by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the wake of the financial crisis of 2007-2008 to "enhance the regulation, accountability, and transparency" of the credit rating agencies. There are currently 10 NRSROs, including Fitch Ratings, Moody's Investors Service, and S&P Global Ratings.


   The Bottom Line  

Credit ratings are the corporate or government counterparts of personal credit scores for individuals. They provide useful information to prospective investors and lenders but, as the rating agencies themselves stress, represent an informed judgment of potential risk, not an absolute guarantee.
What Is a Credit Report?  

A credit report is a detailed breakdown of your credit history prepared by a credit bureau. Credit bureaus collect financial information about you and compile their reports based on that information. Lenders use the reports, often along with other data, to determine your creditworthiness. Insurance companies, employers, and landlords may check your credit reports, as well.





Key Takeaways

A credit report is a summary of your credit history, compiled by a credit bureau.Credit reports include details on your credit accounts, public records such as bankruptcies, and a list of entities that have asked to see your credit report.The three major credit bureaus—Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion—are each required to provide you with a free report at least once a year.


   How Credit Reports Work  

In the United States there are three major credit reporting bureaus: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. Each of these companies collects information about your credit history to create a unique credit report on you. Although most of their information is similar, there are often small differences among the three reports depending on which of your creditors, such as mortgage lenders and credit card companies, provide information to that particular bureau. Some creditors may supply information to one or two bureaus but not all three, and some may not supply any information on you at all.



Credit reports focus primarily on your use of credit. They do not include information on other types of bills. Nor do they show your income, investments, or other assets.





Advisor Insight

Derek Notman, CFP®, ChFC, CLUIntrepid Wealth Partners LLC, Madison, WI
Make sure to review your credit report before you need it. A client of mine was applying for a home mortgage, and when the bank pulled their credit report, there was over $20,000 of credit card debt on the report, but the client didn't have any credit cards.
What had happened was that the client had the same name as their father, so when the credit report was run, it pulled their correct information but also accidentally pulled their father’s credit card balance.
Make sure to check for errors before you think you will need to apply for credit, so you can have them fixed if there are any. Not doing this could delay your credit decision, cause your lender to think twice about lending you credit, and ultimately delay a time-sensitive purchase.


   What Information Is in My Credit Report?  

Credit reports typically divide information into four sections. These are:  



Personal Information: The top of the report contains personal information to identify you, including your name (and any variations of your name that you use), address, date of birth, spouse or co-applicant, and phone numbers.
Accounts: The second section represents the bulk of most reports and includes detailed information on your past and present credit accounts, both revolving credit, such as credit cards and lines of credit, and installment credit, such as auto loans, personal loans, and mortgages. It will indicate when you opened the account as well as its current status, such as whether it is open or closed. In addition, and most importantly, it will show whether you have kept up with your payments on that account or fallen behind.
Public Records: The third section includes public records regarding any bankruptcies, legal judgments, or tax liens. It does not include non-financial matters, such as arrests.
Credit Inquiries: The bottom of the report lists all of the entities that have recently asked to see your credit report. These fall into two categories: hard inquiries, which happen when you apply for credit, and soft inquiries, which occur when a potential creditor requests your file without your knowledge for marketing purposes. Hard inquiries can have a negative impact on your credit score, although it is usually brief.


   Credit Reports and Credit Scores  

Credit scores are three-digit numbers, typically ranging from 300 to 850, that serve as a sort of shorthand for your creditworthiness. The information in your credit reports is used to compute your credit scores, but the scores themselves are not part of your report and must be obtained separately.



Credit scores are computed using formulas developed by FICO or a competitor such as VantageScore. They assign different weightings to the information in your credit report, to reflect its importance and predictive value. A typical FICO score breaks down like this:



Payment history: 35%. This reflects whether you pay your credit bills on time.



Amounts owed: 30%. This looks at factors such as your credit utilization ratio, which compares how much debt you have outstanding to the total amount of credit you have available to you. Generally speaking, the lower that percentage, the better.



Length of credit history: 15%. Older accounts count for more than newer ones.



Credit mix: 10%. The credit scoring models favor individuals who've had a variety of credit types (such as a credit card and a car loan or mortgage) and used them all responsibly.



New credit: 10%. If you've taken on a lot of new credit lately, lenders can see that as a red flag.



While that's a typical breakdown, some scoring models put greater emphasis on certain factors. For example, there are scoring models specifically for mortgage lenders, car loan lenders, and credit card issuers. As a result, many consumers won't have just one credit score but several of them.




How Long Does Information Remain on Your Credit Report?
Information on your credit report will typically remain for at least seven years, after which it basically falls off. One exception is Chapter 7 bankruptcy, which can remain for up to 10 years.




Who Can See Your Credit Report?
Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, businesses and other parties need a legally permissible reason to request your credit report. That list can include lenders, insurance companies, employers, landlords, and government agencies. In the case of employers, you must give your permission in writing.




How Can You Obtain Your Credit Report?
By law, you are entitled to a free copy of your credit report from each of the three major bureaus at least once a year. The official website for that purpose is AnnualCreditReport.com. You're also entitled to see your credit report free of charge if you've recently been denied credit, insurance, or employment based on the information in your report or if you've been a victim of identity theft.


   The Bottom Line  

Your credit reports contain information that lenders, insurance companies, and others will use to judge you. For that reason it's important to check your reports periodically to make sure the information in them is correct. If you find errors, you have a right to dispute them, and the credit bureau is required by law to investigate the matter and get back to you.
What Is Credit Risk?  

Credit risk is the probability of a financial loss resulting from a borrower's failure to repay a loan. Essentially, credit risk refers to the risk that a lender may not receive the owed principal and interest, which results in an interruption of cash flows and increased costs for collection. Lenders can mitigate credit risk by analyzing factors about a borrower's creditworthiness, such as their current debt load and income.



Although it's impossible to know exactly who will default on obligations, properly assessing and managing credit risk can lessen the severity of a loss. Interest payments from the borrower or issuer of a debt obligation are a lender's or investor's reward for assuming credit risk.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi





Key Takeaways

Credit risk is the potential for a lender to lose money when they provide funds to a borrower.Consumer credit risk can be measured by the five Cs: credit history, capacity to repay, capital, the loan's conditions, and associated collateral.Consumers who are higher credit risks are charged higher interest rates on loans.Your credit score is one indicator that lenders use to assess how likely you are to default.


   Understanding Credit Risk  

When lenders offer mortgages, credit cards, or other types of loans, there is a risk that the borrower may not repay the loan. Similarly, if a company offers credit to a customer, there is a risk that the customer may not pay their invoices.






Credit risk can describe the chance that a bond issuer may fail to make payment when requested or that an insurance company will be unable to pay a claim.



Credit risks are calculated based on the borrower's overall ability to repay a loan according to its original terms. To assess credit risk on a consumer loan, lenders often look at the five Cs of credit: credit history, capacity to repay, capital, the loan's conditions, and associated collateral.



Some companies have established departments responsible for assessing the credit risks of their current and potential customers. Technology has allowed businesses to quickly analyze data used to determine a customer's risk profile.



Bond credit-rating agencies, such as Moody's Investors Services and Fitch Ratings, evaluate the credit risks of corporate bond issuers and municipalities and then rate them. If an investor considers buying a bond, they will often review the credit rating of the bond. If a bond has a low rating (< BBB), the issuer has a relatively high risk of default. Conversely, if it has a stronger rating (BBB, A, AA, or AAA), the risk of default is lower.


   Credit Risk vs. Interest Rates  




If there is a higher level of perceived credit risk, investors and lenders usually charge a higher interest rate.



Creditors may decline a loan to a borrower they perceive as too risky.



For example, a mortgage applicant with a superior credit rating and steady income is likely to be perceived as a low credit risk, so they will likely receive a low-interest rate on their mortgage. In contrast, an applicant with a poor credit history may have to work with a subprime lender to get financing.



The best way for a high-risk borrower to get lower interest rates is to improve their credit score. If you have poor credit, consider working with a credit repair company.



Similarly, bond issuers with less-than-perfect ratings offer higher interest rates than those with perfect credit ratings. The issuers with lower credit ratings use high returns to entice investors to assume the risk associated with their offerings.




How Do Banks Manage Credit Risk?
Banks can manage credit risk with several strategies. They can set specific standards for lending, including requiring a certain credit score from borrowers. Then, they can regularly monitor their loan portfolios, assess any changes in borrowers' creditworthiness, and make any adjustments.




What Are the Five Cs of Credit?
The five Cs of credit include capacity, capital, conditions, character, and collateral. These are the factors that lenders can analyze about a borrower to help reduce credit risk. Performing an analysis based on these factors can help a lender predict the likelihood that a borrower will default on a loan.




How Do Lenders Measure the Five Cs of Credit?
Each lender will measure the five Cs of credit (capacity, capital, conditions, character, and collateral) differently. Generally, lenders emphasize a potential creditor's capacity, or the amount of income they have relative to the debt they are carrying.


   The Bottom Line  

Credit risk is a lender's potential for financial loss to a creditor, or the risk that the creditor will default on a loan. Lenders consider several factors when assessing a borrower's risk, including their income, debt, and repayment history. When a lender sees you as a greater credit risk, they are less likely to approve you for a loan and more likely to charge you higher interest rates if you do get approved.
What Is a Credit Score?  

A credit score is a three-digit number that rates your creditworthiness. FICO scores range from 300 to 850. The higher the score, the more likely you are to get approved for loans and for better rates.



A credit score is based on your credit history, which includes information like the number accounts, total levels of debt, repayment history, and other factors. Lenders use credit scores to evaluate your credit worthiness, or the likelihood that you will repay loans in a timely manner.



There are three major credit bureaus in the U.S.: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. This trio dominates the market for collecting, analyzing, and disbursing information about consumers in the credit markets.





Key Takeaways

A credit score is a number that depicts a consumer’s creditworthiness. FICO scores range from from 300 to 850.Factors used to calculate your credit score include repayment history, types of loans, length of credit history, debt utilization, and whether you've applied for new accounts.A credit score plays a key role in a lender’s decision to offer credit and for what terms.The three main U.S. credit bureaus (Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion) may each calculate your FICO score differently.



The credit score model was created by the Fair Isaac Corp., now known as FICO, and is used by financial institutions. While other credit scoring systems exist, the FICO Score is by far the most commonly used.



There are a number factors that go into calculating your FICO credit score, including your repayment history, your debt utilization, the length of your credit history, your credit mix, and any new account openings.



Lenders use your credit score to determines whether to approve you for products like mortgages, personal loans, and credit cards, and what interest rates you will pay.





Note

Prospective employers may also check it to see whether you're a reliable person. Service providers and utility companies may check it to decide whether you are required to make a deposit.


   How Credit Scores Work  

A credit score can significantly affect your financial life. It plays a key role in a lender’s decision to offer you credit. Lenders are more likely to approve you for loans when you have a higher credit score, and are more likely to decline your loan applications when you have lower scores. You can also get better interest rates when you have a higher credit score, which can save you money in the long-term.



Conversely, a credit score of 700 or higher is generally viewed positively by lenders, and may result in a lower interest rate. Scores greater than 800 are considered excellent. Every creditor defines its own ranges for credit scores and its own criteria for lending. Here are the general ranges for how credit scores are categorized.



Excellent: 800–850Very Good: 740–799Good: 670–739Fair: 580–669Poor: 300–579





Note

Your credit score also may determine the size of deposit required to get a smartphone, cable service, or utilities, or to rent an apartment.







What Is A Credit Score?





Tip

Order your copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine for more tips about managing debt and building credit.


   How Your Credit Score Is Calculated  

The three major credit reporting agencies in the U.S. (Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion) report, update, and store consumers’ credit histories. While there can be differences in the information collected by the three credit bureaus, five main factors are evaluated when calculating a credit score:



Payment history (35%)Amounts owed (30%)Length of credit history (15%)Types of credit (10%)New credit (10%)



Payment history: Your payment history includes whether you've paid your bills on time. It takes into account how many late payments you've had, and how late they were.
Amounts owed: Amounts owed is the percentage of credit you've used compared to the credit available to you, which is known as credit utilization.
Length of credit history: Longer credit histories are considered less risky, as there is more data to determine payment history.
Credit mix: A variety of credit types shows lenders you can manage various types of credit. It can include installment credit, such as car loans or mortgage loans, and revolving credit, such as credit cards.
New credit: Lenders view new credit as a potential sign you may be desperate for credit. Too many recent applications for credit can negatively affect your credit score.












Ellen Lindner / Investopedia





Advisor Insight

Kathryn Hauer, CFP, Enrolled AgentWilson David Investment Advisors, Aiken, S.C.
If you have many credit cards and want to close some that you do not use, closing credit cards can indeed lower your score.
Instead of closing accounts, gather up the cards you don’t use. Keep them in a safe place in separate, labeled envelopes. Go online to access and check each of your cards. For each, ensure that there is no balance and that your address, email address, and other contact info are correct. Also, make sure that you don’t have autopay set up on any of them. In the section where you can have alerts, make sure you have your email address or phone in there. Make it a point to regularly check that no fraudulent activity occurs on them, since you aren’t going to be using them. Set yourself a reminder to check them all every six months or every year to make sure there have been no charges on them and that nothing unusual has happened.


   VantageScore  

VantageScore is a consumer credit rating product developed by the Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion credit bureaus as an alternative to the FICO Score.



FICO creates a single bureau-specific score for each of the three credit bureaus, using only information from that bureau. As a result, the FICO is actually three scores, not one, and they can vary slightly as each bureau will have different calculation methods. A VantageScore is a single, tri-bureau score, combining information from all three credit bureaus and used by each of them the same.





Note

FICO score is the most popular credit score, used by about 90% of lenders.


   How to Improve Your Credit Score  

When information is updated on a borrower’s credit report, their credit score changes and can rise or fall based on new information. Here are some ways that your can improve your credit score:



Pay your bills on time: Six months of on-time payments are required to see a noticeable difference in your score. 
Increase your credit line: If you have credit card accounts, call and inquire about a credit increase. If your account is in good standing, you should be granted an increase in your credit limit. However, it is important not to spend this amount so that you maintain a lower credit utilization rate. Meanwhile, try to pay down your debt.
Don’t close a credit card account: If you are not using a certain credit card, it is best to stop using it instead of closing the account. Depending on the age and credit limit of a card, it can hurt your credit score if you close the account.
Work with one a credit repair companies: If you don’t have the time to improve your credit score, credit repair companies can negotiate with your creditors and the three credit agencies on your behalf, in exchange for a monthly fee.
Correct any errors on your credit report: You are entitled to one free credit report per year from each of the main credit bureaus. You can get your report through AnnualCreditReport.com. You can also hire a monitoring service to help keep your information secure.




What is a Good Credit Score to Have?
What a good credit score is will ultimately be determined by the lenders. Ranges vary depending on the credit scoring model. Generally, credit scores from 580 to 669 are considered fair; 670 to 739 are considered good; 740 to 799 are considered very good; and 800 and higher are considered excellent.




Who Calculates Credit Scores?
There are three major credit bureaus in the United States: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. They each calculate your FICO score in different ways using the same information. Credit bureaus collect, analyze, and disburse information about consumers in the credit markets.




How Can I Raise My Credit Score Quickly?
To raise your credit score quickly, you can enroll in a service that includes other payment information such as your rent payments and utilities payments that are not typically included in your credit score. If you have had a good track record with these kinds of bills, enrolling in a service like Experian Boost could raise your credit score quickly.


   The Bottom Line  

Your credit score is a number that can have a significant impact on your financial life. If you have a good credit score, you are more likely to qualify for loans and to receive better terms that can save you money. Learning what your credit score is and what goes into calculating your credit score can help you take steps to improve it.
A credit spread, also known as a yield spread, is the difference in yield between two debt securities of the same maturity but different credit quality. Credit spreads are measured in basis points, with a 1% difference in yield equal to a spread of 100 basis points.



As an example, a 10-year Treasury note with a yield of 5% and a 10-year corporate bond with a yield of 7% are said to have a credit spread of 200 basis points. Credit spreads are also referred to as "bond spreads" or "default spreads." Credit spreads allow for a comparison between a corporate bond and a risk-free alternative.



A credit spread can also refer to an options strategy where a high premium option is written and a low premium option is bought on the same underlying security. This provides a credit to the account of the person making the two trades.





Key Takeaways

A credit spread reflects the difference in yield between a treasury and corporate bond of the same maturity.Bond credit spreads are often a good barometer of economic health—widening (bad) and narrowing (good).A credit spread can also refer to an options strategy where a high premium option is written and a low premium option is bought on the same underlying security.A credit spread options strategy should result in a net credit, which is the maximum profit the trader can make.












Investopedia / Jake Shi


   Credit Spread for Bonds  

A bond credit spread reflects the difference in yield between a treasury and corporate bond of the same maturity. Debt issued by the United States Treasury is used as the benchmark in the financial industry due to its risk-free status being backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. U.S. Treasury (government-issued) bonds are considered to be the closest thing to a risk-free investment, as the probability of default is almost non-existent. Investors have the utmost confidence in getting repaid.



Corporate bonds, even for the most stable and highly-rated companies, are considered to be riskier investments for which the investor demands compensation. This compensation is the credit spread. To illustrate, if a 10-year Treasury note has a yield of 2.54% while a 10-year corporate bond has a yield of 4.60%, then the corporate bond offers a spread of 206 basis points over the Treasury note.



Credit Spread (bond) = (1 – Recovery Rate) * (Default Probability)



Credit spreads vary from one security to another based on the credit rating of the issuer of the bond. Higher quality bonds, which have less chance of the issuer defaulting, can offer lower interest rates. Lower quality bonds, with a higher chance of the issuer defaulting, need to offer higher rates to attract investors to the riskier investment. Credit spreads fluctuations are commonly due to changes in economic conditions (inflation), changes in liquidity, and demand for investment within particular markets.



For example, when faced with uncertain to worsening economic conditions investors tend to flee to the safety of U.S. Treasuries (buying) often at the expense of corporate bonds (selling). This dynamic causes U.S. Treasury prices to rise and yields to fall while corporate bond prices fall and yields rise. The widening is reflective of investor concern. This is why credit spreads are often a good barometer of economic health - widening (bad) and narrowing (good).






There are a number of bond market indexes that investors and financial experts use to track the yields and credit spreads of different types of debt, with maturities ranging from three months to 30 years. Some of the most important indexes include High Yield and Investment Grade U.S. Corporate Debt, mortgage-backed securities, tax-exempt municipal bonds, and government bonds.



Credit spreads are larger for debt issued by emerging markets and lower-rated corporations than by government agencies and wealthier and/or stable nations. Spreads are larger for bonds with longer maturities.






   Credit Spreads As an Options Strategy  

A credit spread can also refer to a type of options strategy where the trader buys and sells options of the same type and expiration but with different strike prices. The premiums received should be greater than the premiums paid resulting in a net credit for the trader. The net credit is the maximum profit a trader can make. Two such strategies are the bull put spread, where the trader expects the underlying security to go up, and the bear call spread, where the trader expects the underlying security to go down.



An example of a bear call spread would be buying a January 50 call on ABC for $2, and writing a January 45 call on ABC for $5. The trader's account nets $3 per share (with each contract representing 100 shares) as they receive the $5 premium for writing the January 45 call while paying $2 for buying the January 50 call. If the price of the underlying security is at or below $45 when the options expire then the trader has made a profit. This can also be called a "credit spread option" or a "credit risk option."




What Does Credit Spread Mean in Bonds?
This is the difference in basis points between a corporate bond and a U.S. Treasury bond with the same maturity. A single percentage point, or 1.00%, is equal to 100 basis points. So, if the corporate bond has a yield that is 2.00% higher than the Treasury bond, the credit spread would be 200 basis points.




How Does Credit Spread Affect Bond Price?
The credit spread is the result of the difference in risk. Corporate bonds come with more risk than U.S. Treasury bonds, so they need to offer higher yields in order to attract investors. The price you pay for either bond may be the same, but you are assuming a higher risk with corporate bonds, which means you have the potential to earn more.




Can You Lose Money on a Credit Spread?
As with any investment strategy, there is risk and the possibility that you could lose money. On a credit spread, you could lose money if the premiums received are less than the premiums paid.


   The Bottom Line  

A credit spread is relatively straightforward—the difference in yield between two debt securities that mature at the same time but come with different risks. Bonds with higher risks typically have higher yields. The term credit spread also refers to a strategy that involves purchasing one option while selling another similar option with a different strike price.
What Is a Credit Union?  

A credit union is a type of financial cooperative that provides traditional banking services. Ranging in size from small, volunteer-only operations to large entities with thousands of participants spanning the country, credit unions can be formed by large corporations, organizations, and other entities for their employees and members.



Credit unions are created, owned, and operated by their members. As such, they are not-for-profit enterprises that are accorded tax-exempt status.





Key Takeaways

Credit unions are financial cooperatives that provide traditional banking services to their members.Credit unions have fewer products than traditional banks, but offer clients access to better rates and more ATM locations.They can do so because they are not publicly traded and only need to make enough money to continue daily operations.However, credit unions have fewer brick-and-mortar locations than most banks, which can be a drawback for clients who like in-person service.Credit unions are exempt from paying corporate income tax on their earnings.


   Understanding a Credit Union  

Credit unions follow a basic business model. Members pool their money (technically, they are buying shares in the cooperative) to provide loans, demand deposit accounts, and other financial products and services to each other. Any income generated is used to fund projects and services that will benefit the community and the interests of members.


  Requirements for Membership  

Originally, membership in a credit union was limited to people who shared a common bond. They may have worked in the same industry or for the same company. Or they may have lived in the same community.



However, credit unions have loosened the restrictions on membership and often allow the general public to join.



To do any business with a credit union, you must join it by opening an account there (often for a nominal amount). As soon as you do, you become a member and partial owner.



That means you participate in the union's affairs. You may vote to determine the board of directors and decisions concerning the union. A member’s voting right is not based on how much money is in their account; each member gets an equal vote.



According to the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA), membership in federally insured credit unions grew to 136.6 million as of March 31, 2023.






Total assets in federally insured credit unions as of March 31, 2023, were $2.21 trillion.


   Advantages of Credit Unions vs. Banks  
  Non-Profit Status  

As with banks, the process of making money at credit unions starts by attracting deposits. In this, credit unions have two distinct advantages over banks, both resulting from their status as nonprofit organizations:



Credit unions are exempt from paying corporate income tax on earnings.
Credit unions need to generate only enough earnings to fund daily operations. As a result, they can work with narrower operating margins than banks, which are expected by shareholders to increase earnings every quarter.


  Better Rates and Fees  

The profits that credit unions do make are used to pay members higher interest rates on deposits, and to charge lower fees for services, such as checking accounts and ATM withdrawals. In short, a credit union can save members money on loans, deposit accounts, and savings products.



According to NCUA data as of March 31, 2023, the national average rate for five-year certificates of deposit (CDs) offered by credit unions was 2.66%, compared to an average rate of 1.83% offered by banks.



Money market rates at credit unions were also higher, with an average rate of 0.53% versus the average bank rate of 0.43%.



While these differences sound small, they do add up, giving credit unions a significant advantage over banks when competing for deposits.






Credit unions provide better rates on most mortgages, including 15-year and 30-year fixed mortgages, which could be a good option if you are looking to purchase a home.﻿﻿


   Disadvantages of Credit Unions vs. Banks  
  Fewer Locations  

Credit unions have considerably fewer brick-and-mortar locations than most banks, which can be a drawback for clients who like in-person service. Most offer modern services such as online banking and auto-bill pay. Still, the small size of many credit unions can mean a compromise on accessibility.


  Lower Tech  

Smaller credit unions typically do not have the same technology budget as banks, so their websites and security features are often considerably less advanced. That said, some mid-sized and larger credit unions may offer mobile banking apps that rival those of much bigger, for-profit institutions.


  Limited Products and Services  

While credit unions offer most of the financial products and services that banks do, they often provide less choice. Bank of America has 20 different credit card options, ranging from rewards cards to student cards, while the Navy Federal Credit Union (NFCU) has only six. The second-largest credit union in the country, the State Employees’ Credit Union (SECU), offers one credit card.


  Less Flexibility  

With more resources to allocate to customer service and personnel, banks are keeping later and longer hours. You may find them open until 5 p.m. or 6 p.m. on weekdays and often on Saturdays, as well. Credit unions tend to maintain traditional bankers' business hours (9 a.m. to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday), though the larger ones, such as SECU, have a 24-hour customer service hotline.


   Insurance on Credit Union Accounts  

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) does not cover credit unions. However, the NCUA, established in 1934 and which regulates federally chartered credit unions and most state-chartered credit unions, does provide account protection.



In fact, one of the NCUA's main responsibilities is to administer the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF), which uses federal monies to back up shares (deposits) in all federal credit unions.



The NCUA provides coverage for each individual account, joint account, trust account, retirement account (such as traditional IRAs, Roth IRAs, or Keogh plan accounts), and business account for up to $250,000 per account.



For example, if you have an individual account, a Roth IRA, and a business account at a credit union, your total shares are insured up to $750,000.



You can research credit unions of interest that the NCUA regulates at the NCUA website.




What Benefits Do Credit Unions Offer?
Normally, credit unions offer higher rates on interest-bearing accounts, lower rates on loans, lower fees, and a more personal touch when it comes to customer service.




Can Anyone Join a Credit Union?
Nowadays, you'll find more credit unions offering membership to all. Some still have specific eligibility requirements, though, so be sure to check out a credit union's "field of membership" section on its website for details about joining.




How Do I Join a Credit Union?
Once you've located a credit union that interests you, you should be able to find membership specifics and an application to join on its website. The application usually requires the kind of personal information related to opening a financial account (which is what you're doing as part of applying for membership). You'll then need to make a deposit to fund the account you've chosen.


   The Bottom Line  

Credit unions are significantly smaller in size than most banks and are structured to serve a particular region, industry, or group. And though they may have fewer branches, they can still provide customers ample access to their funds as many credit unions are part of expansive ATM networks.



While credit unions must make enough to cover their operations, any profit beyond that goes back to the members in the form of lower fees and account minimums, higher rates on deposits, and lower borrowing rates.
What Is a Creditor?  

A creditor is an individual or institution that extends credit to another party to borrow money usually by a loan agreement or contract. Creditors are commonly classified as personal or real.



Those who loan money to friends or family or a business that provides immediate supplies or services to a company or individual but allows for a delay in payment may be considered personal creditors.



Real creditors are banks or finance companies that have legal contracts and loan agreements with the borrower that grant the lender the right to claim any of the debtor's real assets or collateral if the loan is unpaid.





Key Takeaways

A creditor is an individual or institution that extends credit to another party to borrow money usually by a loan agreement or contract.Creditors such as banks can repossess collateral like homes and cars on secured loans, and take debtors to court over unsecured debts.Borrowers with good credit scores are considered low-risk to creditors, and these borrowers often garner low-interest rates.The difference between an original creditor and a debt collector is that an original creditor is the company that makes the loan while a debt collector seeks to collect on delinquent loans—those that they have purchased from the original creditor.


   Understanding Creditors  

Creditors often charge interest on the loans they offer their clients, such as a 5% interest rate on a $5,000 loan. The interest represents the borrower's cost of the loan and the creditor's degree of risk that the borrower may not repay the loan.



To mitigate risk, most creditors tie interest rates or fees to the borrower's creditworthiness and past credit history. Borrowers with good credit scores are considered low-risk to creditors, and these borrowers often garner low-interest rates.



In contrast, borrowers with low credit scores are riskier for creditors and are often charged higher interest rates to address that risk. 





Creditor vs. Debtor

While the creditor is the entity that extends credit, a debtor is the legal party that accepts the credit or loan, owes the debt, and agrees to its repayment. 


   What Happens If Creditors Are Not Repaid?  

Secured creditors, often a bank or mortgage company, have a legal right to reclaim the property, such as a car or home, used as collateral for a loan, often through a lien or repossession.



An unsecured creditor, such as a credit card company, is a creditor where the borrower has not agreed to give the creditor any property such as a car or home as collateral to secure a debt. These creditors may sue these debtors in court over unpaid unsecured debts and courts may order the debtor to pay, garnish wages, or take other actions.


   Creditors and Bankruptcy  

Bankruptcy is a legal process through which individuals who cannot repay debts to creditors may seek relief from some or all of their debts. Bankruptcy is initiated by the debtor and is imposed by a court order. 



When a debtor declares bankruptcy, the court notifies the creditor of the proceedings. In some bankruptcy cases, all of the debtor's non-essential assets are sold to repay debts, and the bankruptcy trustee repays the debts in order of their priority.



Tax debts and child support typically rank highest along with criminal fines, and overpayments of federal benefits for repayment. Unsecured loans such as credit cards are prioritized last, giving those creditors the smallest chance of recouping funds from debtors during bankruptcy proceedings.


   Original Creditor vs. Debt Collector  

While creditors lend money and are owed that money, a debt collector does not lend money. A creditor is the original lender because they made the loan to you. Debt collectors purchase delinquent loans from the original creditor, such as a bank, usually at a discount, and aim to then collect on that loan.



For example, John may owe Bank ABC $10,000 dollars but has not been able to pay it back. His loan goes into default. Rather than continuously attempting to collect on this loan, Bank ABC sells the loan to Debt Collector XYZ for $6,000. This way the bank has recouped some of its losses and can focus on its core business of lending, not chasing down delinquent loans. Debt Collector XYZ then seeks to collect the entire $10,000 from John, which it is legally allowed to do.




What Is the Fair Debt Collection Practice Act?
A creditor often seeks repayment through the process outlined in the loan agreement. The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) protects the debtor from aggressive or unfair debt collection practices and establishes ethical guidelines for the collection of consumer debts.




What Is Chapter 11?
Chapter 11 is a form of bankruptcy that involves the reorganization of a debtor’s business affairs, debts, and assets and allows a company to stay in business and restructure its obligations.




What Information Do Creditors Report to Credit Bureaus?
Individuals often rely on credit scores to obtain loans and extensions of credit. Creditors and lenders are not required by law to report anything to credit bureaus, however, many businesses report on-time payments, late payments, purchases, loan terms, credit limits, and balances owed, information used by credit bureaus to construct credit scores.




Who Is a Creditor and Who Is a Debtor?
Creditors are individuals or entities that have lent money to another individual or entity. They typically charge interest and the money is owed back to them. For example, a bank lending money to a person to purchase a house is a creditor. A debtor is an individual or entity that borrows money from another individual or entity and needs to pay that money back within a certain time frame, with interest. For example, a person who borrows money from a bank to buy a house is a debtor.




What Are the Different Types of Creditors?
Creditors can include friends or family that you borrow money from and have to pay back. Unsecured creditors are those that lend money without any collateral. Secured creditors are those that lend money with collateral so that if you default on your loan, they may repossess the asset pledged as collateral to cover the money they have lost.


   The Bottom Line  

A creditor is an individual or institution that extends credit to another party to borrow money usually by a loan agreement or contract. On secured loans, creditors can repossess collateral like homes or cars and creditors can sue debtors for repayment of unsecured loans. The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) established ethical guidelines for the collection of consumer debts by creditors.
What Is Creditworthiness?  

Creditworthiness is a measure of how likely you will default on your debt obligations according to a lender’s assessment, or how worthy you are to receive new credit. Your creditworthiness is what creditors consider before they approve any new credit.





Key Takeaways

Creditworthiness is a measure of a borrower’s risk to a lender.Creditworthiness is determined by several factors, including your repayment history and credit score.You can improve your creditworthiness by making payments on time and reducing debt.Check your credit report, which indicates your creditworthiness, at AnnualCreditReport.com.


   Understanding Creditworthiness  

Your creditworthiness tells a creditor just how suitable you are for the loan or credit card application that you filled out. The decision that the lender makes is based on how you’ve dealt with credit in the past. Lenders look at several different factors: your overall credit report, credit score, and payment history.



Your credit report outlines how much debt you carry, the high balances, the credit limits, and the current balance of each account. It will also flag any important information for the potential lender, including whether you’ve had any past-due amounts, defaults, bankruptcies, or collection items.






Creditworthiness is determined by several factors, including your repayment history and credit score. Some lending institutions also consider available assets and the number of liabilities you have when they determine the probability of default.



Your creditworthiness is also measured by your credit score, which is a three-digit number based on factors in your credit report. A high credit score means your creditworthiness is high, while a lower credit score indicates lower creditworthiness.



Payment history also plays a key role in determining your creditworthiness. Lenders generally don’t extend credit to someone whose history demonstrates late payments, missed payments, and overall financial irresponsibility.



If you’ve been up to date with all your payments, the payment history on your credit report should reflect that. Payment history counts for 35% of your FICO credit score, so it’s a good idea to stay in check, even if you have to just make the minimum payment.



Your creditworthiness is important because it will determine whether you get approved for a new loan, like a car loan or a credit card. The more creditworthy you are, the more likely you will be approved for better interest rates, which can save you significant money. It can also affect employment eligibility, insurance premiums, business funding, and professional certifications or licenses.


   Checking Your Creditworthiness  

The three prominent credit reporting agencies that measure creditworthiness are Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. Lenders pay credit reporting agencies to access credit data on potential or existing customers in addition to using their own credit scoring systems to grant approval for credit.



Every consumer should keep track of their credit score because it is the factor used by financial institutions to decide if an applicant is eligible for credit, preferred interest rates, and specific credit limits.



You can request a free copy of your credit report once each year at AnnualCreditReport.com, or you can join a free credit monitoring site like Credit Karma, Credit Sesame, or another credit monitoring service.


   How to Improve Your Creditworthiness  

There are several ways that you can improve your credit score to establish creditworthiness. First, you can pay your bills on time. Then, you can pay more than the minimum monthly payment to pay down debt faster and improve your credit utilization ratio. Some financial experts suggest keeping credit card utilization rates below 30%, although 10% is ideal.



You should understand your debt-to-income (DTI) ratio. An acceptable DTI is 35%, but 28% is ideal. DTI can be calculated by dividing your total monthly debt by your total gross monthly income. Lenders use DTI when assessing an individual’s creditworthiness.



You can also order a free copy of your Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion credit reports. Review all of the information for accuracy, and dispute any errors. Provide supporting documentation to substantiate your dispute claim. In addition, you can dispute inaccurate information with the company reporting the error.




How Do I Find My Credit Score for Free?
You can find your credit score for free by checking online with your credit card company or visiting www.annualcreditreport.com. You are entitled to one free credit report per year.




Why Is Creditworthiness Important?
Creditworthiness is very important when you are applying for loans because your creditworthiness determines whether you are approved for the loan and under what terms. The better your credit score and credit history, the better terms you can get on a loan, which means you can save money in the long term.




How Can I Improve My Creditworthiness?
You can improve your creditworthiness by ensuring that your credit reports are correct, reducing your debt by paying more than the minimum balance, and by paying all your bills on time. Avoid applying for too many credit cards and loans and using all of your available credit.


   The Bottom Line  

It’s important to understand your creditworthiness, even if you are not applying for credit. You can track your credit score and credit report annually to ensure that your creditworthiness is strong. If you need to improve your credit, you can take steps such as reducing your debt and avoiding overspending with revolving lines of credit like credit cards.
What Is Cross Culture?  

Cross culture in the business world refers to a company's efforts to ensure that its employees interact effectively with professionals from other backgrounds. Like the adjective cross-cultural, it implies a recognition of national, regional, and ethnic differences in manners and methods and a desire to bridge them.





Key Takeaways

Cross culture is a concept that recognizes the differences among business people of different nations, backgrounds, and ethnicities, and the importance of bridging them.With globalization, cross culture education has become critically important to business success in opening up and maintaining new markets.Business people working abroad need to learn subtle differences in style and substance in order to be effective.Employees can obtain cross culture training from their business and educational organizations.


   Understanding Cross Culture  

A field of study, cross-cultural communication, has emerged to define and teach the many ways that the different peoples of the world communicate with each other verbally and non-verbally.



The concept of cross culture has become critically important with the globalization of business. Many companies that seek to expand the markets for their products and services devote substantial resources to training employees in how to communicate and interact effectively with those from other cultures.



For example, when employees of an international company transfer to another country, they need to master aspects of that country's culture. They must not only learn to understand and speak the language but adapt to its social norms, as well.



Today, cross culture education is considered imperative for employees acting in managerial capacities abroad. Failure to effectively communicate with colleagues and subordinates or to understand their actions can lead to cascading problems within the business.


   Cross Culture Differences  

Every culture shapes how its most minute and important social, societal, and professional behaviors are interpreted, and that inevitably carries over into business. Some cultures view the association between a manager and a subordinate as a symbiotic relationship. In others, the manager is expected to rule from a distance.



Cross culture extends to body language, physical contact, and perceptions of personal space. In cultures that adhere to strict religious standards, interactions between members of the opposite sex, even in the business sphere, may be complicated.



Body language such as hand gestures may be frowned upon or, worse yet, may have meanings that are entirely unintended. In some cultures, casual touching is common, while in others it is viewed as rude, disrespectful, or worse.






In certain cultures, food and business may or may not mix. For instance, in Italy and the United Arab Emirates, don't expect to make important business decisions during a meal before establishing a good relationship.


   Cross Culture Examples  

Failing to observe any of the customs listed below would be a serious cross culture faux pas.



Accepting a business card from a Japanese businessperson is not a casual action. The person presenting the card will bow and present it with both hands. The recipient takes it with both hands, indicating respect. In China, giving a direct "yes" or "no" answer, or demanding one of anyone else, is considered very rude. Meetings are for talking things over, not announcing decisions. In Mexico, business is done primarily among friends and family. Visiting business people often seek an introduction through an intermediary with local connections.




Is Cross Culture Training Useful for Employees?
Yes, it is useful because it can help develop awareness and understanding for the values, social norms, acceptable gender-related actions, and particular business behaviors of people in different countries. With such training, employees can better represent their companies.




Why Does Cross Culture Awareness Matter?
An awareness of the beliefs, practices, and requirements of businesses in other parts of the world can lead to clear and meaningful communications. This can aid and enhance business, government, and personal relationships between peoples unfamiliar with each other. And that can smooth the way for mutually beneficial interaction.




What Specific Actions Support Cross Culture Success?
Some actions include learning about another country's language and manner of communicating; observing what you learn by maintaining rules of etiquette; listening carefully when others speak; showing respect for different behaviors and activities; taking part in those activities when invited to do so.


   The Bottom Line  

Dealing with businesses beyond one's own border is becoming the norm for many companies seeking new outlets for their products and services. It's vital to study and learn about a country's approach to business relationships and decision-making, business dining and social etiquette, and more. Your cross culture business success may depend on it.
What Is Cross Elasticity of Demand?  

The cross elasticity of demand is an economic concept that measures the responsiveness in the quantity demanded of one good when the price for another good changes. Also called cross-price elasticity of demand, this measurement is calculated by taking the percentage change in the quantity demanded of one good and dividing it by the percentage change in the price of the other good.





Key Takeaways

The cross elasticity of demand is an economic concept that measures the responsiveness in the quantity demanded of one good when the price for another one changes.The cross elasticity of demand for substitute goods is always positive because the demand for one good increases when the price for the substitute good increases.Alternatively, the cross elasticity of demand for complementary goods is negative.When dealing with unrelated goods, there is generally no cross-elasticity of demand.Companies often use the cross elasticity of demand to determine and set prices of their goods and services.












Investopedia / Theresa Chiechi


   Cross Elasticity of Demand Formula  

﻿
















E



x


y




=




Percentage Change in Quantity of X




Percentage Change in Price of Y




















E



x


y





=







Δ



Q


x








Q


x











Δ



P


y








P


y
























E



x


y





=




Δ



Q


x






Q


x





×





P


y





Δ



P


y





















E



x


y





=




Δ



Q


x





Δ



P


y





×





P


y






Q


x



















where:

















Q


x



=


Quantity of good X

















P


y



=


Price of good Y
















Δ


=


Change








\begin{aligned} &E_{xy} = \frac {\text{Percentage Change in Quantity of X} }{ \text{Percentage Change in Price of Y} } \\ &\phantom{ E_{xy} } = \frac { \frac { \displaystyle \Delta Q_x }{ \displaystyle Q_x } }{ \frac { \displaystyle \Delta P_y }{ \displaystyle P_y } } \\ &\phantom{ E_{xy} } = \frac {\Delta Q_x }{ Q_x } \times \frac {P_y }{ \Delta P_y } \\ &\phantom{ E_{xy} } = \frac {\Delta Q_x }{ \Delta P_y } \times \frac {P_y }{ Q_x } \\ &\textbf{where:} \\ &Q_x = \text{Quantity of good X} \\ &P_y = \text{Price of good Y} \\ &\Delta = \text{Change} \\ \end{aligned}


​Exy​=Percentage Change in Price of YPercentage Change in Quantity of X​Exy​=Py​ΔPy​​Qx​ΔQx​​​Exy​=Qx​ΔQx​​×ΔPy​Py​​Exy​=ΔPy​ΔQx​​×Qx​Py​​where:Qx​=Quantity of good XPy​=Price of good YΔ=Change​﻿


   How to Calculate Cross Elasticity of Demand  

Now that you have the formula for cross price elasticity of demand, it's important to know how to use it to make your calculations. Here's a step-by-step run-through of how to do so.



Figure out the total quantity demanded of X and the initial price of Y.Determine the final quantity demanded of X and the ending price of Y.For the numerator in the formula above, calculate the percentage change in the quantity demanded of X. Do this by subtracting the last and first quantities and dividing that by the total sum of the initial and final quantities.Now you'll need to calculate the denominator, which is the percentage change in price. You can do this by dividing the final and initial prices by the total sum of the last and initial prices.Calculate the cross-price elasticity of demand by dividing the percentage change in quantity by the percentage change in price.


   Understanding Cross Elasticity of Demand  

In economics, the cross elasticity of demand refers to how sensitive the demand for a product is to changes in the price of another product. This means it determines the relationship between the quantity demanded of one good when the price for another good or product changes. Put simply, it measures how demand for one good changes when the price of another (usually related one) does.



You can use the formula to make comparisons of products that are considered perfect substitutes for one another or those that are complementary to one another. For substitute goods, the cross elasticity of demand remains positive, which means prices increase when demand for one good rises. Demand for complementary goods drops when the price rises for another good. This is called negative cross elasticity of demand.






Unrelated products do not affect one another. For instance, an increase in the price of eggs does not directly relate to an increase in demand for olives.


  Substitute Goods  

The cross elasticity of demand for substitute goods is always positive because the demand for one good increases when the price for the substitute good increases. For example, if coffee prices increase, then the quantity demanded for tea (a substitute beverage) increases as consumers switch to a less expensive yet substitutable alternative. This is reflected in the cross elasticity of the demand formula, as both the numerator (percentage change in the demand for tea) and denominator (the price of coffee) show positive increases.



Items with a coefficient of 0 are unrelated items and are goods independent of each other. Items may be weak substitutes, in which the two products have a positive but low cross elasticity of demand. This is often the case for different product substitutes, such as tea versus coffee. Items that are strong substitutes have a higher cross-elasticity of demand. Consider different brands of tea; a price increase in one company’s green tea has a higher impact on another company’s green tea demand.






Toothpaste is an example of a substitute good; if the price of one brand of toothpaste increases, the demand for a competitor's brand of toothpaste increases in turn.


  Complementary Goods  

Alternatively, the cross elasticity of demand for complementary goods is negative. As the price for one item increases, an item closely associated with that item and necessary for its consumption decreases because the demand for the main good has also dropped.



For example, if the price of coffee increases, the quantity demanded for coffee stir sticks drops as consumers are drinking less coffee and need to purchase fewer sticks. In the formula, the numerator (quantity demanded of stir sticks) is negative and the denominator (the price of coffee) is positive. This results in a negative cross elasticity.


   Usefulness of Cross Elasticity of Demand  

Companies utilize the cross elasticity of demand to establish prices to sell their goods. Products with no substitutes have the ability to be sold at higher prices because there is no cross-elasticity of demand to consider. However, incremental price changes to goods with substitutes are analyzed to determine the appropriate level of demand desired and the associated price of the good.



Additionally, complementary goods are strategically priced based on the cross elasticity of demand. For example, printers may be sold at a loss with the understanding that the demand for future complementary goods, such as printer ink, should increase.


   Examples of Cross Elasticity of Demand  

Here are a couple of examples of how cross-price elasticity of demand works. First, let's take a look at two substitute goods. Let's consider chicken burritos from two different restaurants. Suppose both restaurants sell their burritos for $6 each. But Restaurant A decides it wants to make more in profits, so it raises the price to $8. Since most people don't want to spend the extra money and the two goods are equal substitutes, there's a very good chance that demand for Restaurant B's chicken burritos will increase.



Now let's take a look at complementary goods and how they are affected by the cross-price elasticity of demand. Consider burgers and fries, which aren't necessarily related but tend to go hand-in-hand. When people eat burgers, they also tend to eat fries. If the price drops for burgers, demand for fries may increase.




What Does the Cross Elasticity of Demand Measure?
 Cross elasticity of demand evaluates the relationship between two products when the price in one of them changes. It shows the relative change in demand for one product as the price of the other rises or falls.




What Does a Positive Cross Elasticity of Demand Indicate?
A positive cross elasticity of demand means that the demand for good A will increase as the price of good B goes up. This means that goods A and B are good substitutes. so that if B gets more expensive, people are happy to switch to A. An example would be the price of milk. If whole milk goes up in price, people may switch to 2% milk. Likewise, if 2% milk rises in price instead, whole milk becomes more in demand.




What Does a Negative Cross Elasticity of Demand Indicate?
A negative cross elasticity of demand indicates that the demand for good A will decrease as the price of B goes up. This suggests that A and B are complementary goods, such as a printer and printer toner. If the price of the printer goes up, demand for it will drop. As a result of fewer printers being sold, less toner will also be sold.




How Does Cross Elasticity of Demand Differ From Demand Elasticity?
Cross elasticity looks at the proportional changes in demand among two goods. Demand elasticity (or price elasticity of demand) by itself looks at the change in demand of a single item as its price changes.




How Does Cross Elasticity of Demand Differ From the Cross Elasticity of Supply?
In contrast to changes in demand of two goods in response to prices, the cross elasticity of supply measures the proportional change in the quantity supplied or produced in relation to changes in the price of a good.


   The Bottom Line  

Prices and demand often go hand-in-hand in economics. Economic theory generally dictates that when the price of one good goes up, demand for another generally does, too. This is called the cross-price elasticity of demand. You can easily calculate this figure by using the formula above, taking the percentage change in the quantity demanded of one good by the percentage change in price for another good.
What Is a Cross-Sell?  

To cross-sell is to sell related or complementary products to a customer. Cross-selling is one of the most effective methods of marketing. In the financial services industry, examples of cross-selling include selling different types of investments or products to investors or tax preparation services to retirement planning clients. For instance, if a bank client has a mortgage, its sales team may try to cross-sell that client a personal line of credit or a savings product like a CD.





Key Takeaways

Cross-selling is the practice of marketing additional products to existing customers, often practiced in the financial services industry.Financial advisors can often earn additional revenue by cross-selling additional products and services to their existing client base.Care needs to be taken to do this correctly in order to stay clear of regulators and protect the client’s best interests. Advisors who simply make referrals in order to receive additional incentives may find themselves on the receiving end of customer complaints and disciplinary action.Upselling is a sales tactic in which an upgrade or a high-end version of a product or service is promoted.Wells Fargo was fined more than $185 million and refunded more than $2.8 million to customers for its cross-selling scandal.


   How Cross-Selling Works  

Cross-selling to existing clients is one of the primary methods of generating new revenue for many businesses, including financial advisors. This is perhaps one of the easiest ways to grow their business, as they have already established a relationship with the client and are familiar with their needs and objectives.



However, advisors need to be careful when they use this strategy. A money manager who cross-sells a mutual fund that invests in a different sector can be a good way for the client to diversify their portfolio. However, an advisor who tries to sell a client a mortgage or other product that is outside the advisor’s scope of knowledge can be a disservice to a customer and damage the business relationship.



When done efficiently, cross-selling can translate into significant profits for stockbrokers, insurance agents, and financial planners. Licensed income tax preparers can offer insurance and investment products to their tax clients, and this is among the easiest of all sales to make. Effective cross-selling is a good business practice and is a useful financial planning strategy, as well. 






Not to be confused with cross-selling, upselling is the act of selling a more comprehensive or higher-end version of the current product.


   Becoming Proficient at Cross-Selling  

Advisors who cross-sell financial products or services need to be thoroughly familiar with the products that they are selling. A stockbroker who primarily sells mutual funds will need substantial additional training if they are assigned to start selling mortgages to clients.



A simple referral to another department that actually sells and processes the mortgage may lead to situations where referrals are made whether they are needed or not, as the broker may not understand when the client really needs this service but is only motivated to earn a referral fee.



Advisors need to know how and when the additional product or service fits into their client’s financial picture so that they can make a more effective referral and stay compliant with suitability standards. FINRA may use the information that it collects from its inquiry to develop and implement a new set of rules that govern how cross-selling can be done.



In addition to understanding financial products, advisors need to understand the assortment of products their company can provide. Imagine a new staff member joining a firm, interacting with clients but not knowing the full extent of advisory services the company is capable of. In this example, the new hire needs to become familiarized with the company to become more proficient at recognizing opportunities to cross-sell.


   Cross-Selling in Financial Services  

Until the 1980s, the financial services industry was easy to navigate, with banks offering savings accounts, brokerage firms selling stocks and bonds, credit card companies pitching credit cards, and life insurance companies selling life insurance. That changed when Prudential Insurance Company, the most prominent insurance company in the world at that time, acquired a medium-sized stock brokerage firm call Bache Group, Inc in an effort to offer broader services.



The mergers of Wells Fargo & Co. with Wachovia Securities and Bank of America with Merrill Lynch & Co., both in 2008, occurred at a time of declining profits for both banks—and of financial crisis for the brokerages. To a large extent, they were aiming to expand their retail distribution arms by buying large and established distribution channels of the brokerages, hoping for synergy between banking and investment products and services.



With few exceptions, cross-selling failed to catch on within many of the merged companies. As an example, Bank of America lost Merrill Lynch brokers through the insistence that the brokers cross-sell bank products to their investment clients. Wells Fargo has been more effective in instituting cross-selling because its merger with Wachovia brought a relatively similar culture into the fold.



It can be difficult for large firms to effectively integrate different types of products. H&R Block Inc. failed in this proposition when it acquired Olde Discount Broker in a push to offer investment services to its tax customers. The company ultimately decided to jettison the brokerage enterprises and focus solely on taxes. After acquiring Olde for $850 million in 1999, H&R Block sold that division of its operations for $315 million less than 10 years later.


   Cross-Selling vs. Upselling  

Cross-selling and upselling are sales tactics used to convince customers to purchase more. However, there are differences to consider.



Upselling, also known as suggestive selling, is the practice of persuading customers to purchase an upgraded or more expensive version of a product or service. The goal is to maximize profits and create a better experience for the customer. That experience can translate into an increase in the customer's perceived value and an increased Customer Lifetime Value (CLV)—the total contribution a customer makes to a company.






Companies are 60% to 70% more likely to sell to an existing customer, whereas the likelihood of selling to a new customer is 5% to 20%.



For companies, it is easier to upsell to their existing customer base than it is to upsell to a new customer. Existing customers trust the brand and find value in the products and/or services. This trust drives the success of upselling. For instance, if a customer trusts a brand, they will generally trust the brand when it presents a seemingly better option.



Alternatively, cross-selling is the sales tactic whereby customers are enticed to buy items related or complementary to what they plan to purchase. Cross-selling techniques include recommending, offering discounts on, and bundling related products. Like upselling, the company seeks to earn more money per customer and increase perceived value by addressing and satisfying consumer needs.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Cross-Selling  

Companies employ different sales tactics to increase revenues, and one of the most effective is cross-selling. Cross-selling is not just offering customers other products to purchase; it requires skill. The business must understand consumer behaviors and needs and how complementary products fulfill those needs and add value.



Customers purchase from brands they trust and have had positive experiences with. Therefore, it becomes easier to sell to an existing customer than to a new one. Existing customers are more likely to purchase products that relate to or complement what they already plan to purchase. As consumers begin to use more of a company's products, they become increasingly loyal to the brand.



On the other hand, cross-selling can have adverse effects on customer loyalty. If done incorrectly, it can appear as a pushy, self-seeking sales tactic. This is evident when a salesperson aggressively tries to sell a related product or attempts to sell without understanding the customer's need for it. Not only does this affect the sale, but it also negatively affects the brand's reputation.



Additionally, cross-selling to the wrong type of customer could be counterproductive. Some customers have high service demands, and the more products they buy, the more service they command. As their service demands increase, so do the costs associated with providing those services.



Lastly, some customers habitually return or exchange products. When cross-selling to this segment, profits are not realized. Initially, their purchases generate substantial revenues; however, they often return or default of payments, costing the company more than what the customer generated in revenues.





Pros

May potential increase revenue by increase sales quantities, especially in less popular goods
May increase brand loyalty as customers are further exposed to an assortment of one company's products
May fulfill all of a customer's needs, stealing them from approaching a competitor for other requirements



Cons

May result in increased service-related costs as it may be more expensive to cross-sell compared to other strategies
May negatively impact relationships if the cross-selling technique is found to be pushy
May result in a negative public perception of requiring or demanding multiple products be paired together





   Real-World Example of Cross-Selling  

In 2013, a group of Southern California Wells Fargo employees opened, without consent, new bank and credit card accounts for unsuspecting customers. The motivation: to meet cross-selling quotas. After an internal investigation, more than 30 employees were terminated.



To identify how widespread the issue was, Wells Fargo hired an independent consulting firm to review new accounts opened since 2011. They also created new procedures for validating new accounts, as well as implemented new training programs and security protocols.



The consulting firm found that over two million accounts were fraudulently opened within a five-year period, and 115,000 of those accounts incurred fees. Eventually, over 3.5 million fraudulent accounts were discovered. Wells Fargo returned more than $2.8 million to affected customers, and more than 5,300 people were terminated. Without notice and an explanation, then CEO John Stumpf resigned. In 2016, Wells Fargo was hit with a $185 million fine for this scandal.




How Can You Increase Your Cross-Selling Effectiveness?
There are several strategies you can employ to make cross-selling effective. Consider using an email drip campaign to periodically introduce complementary products and services. Wait until you have developed a relationship and have proven success with the customer. Make sure your products and services are aligned to the needs and goals of the customer. Offering something that serves no purpose is counterproductive and can detract from customer satisfaction.




What Are the Do's and Don'ts of Cross-Selling?
When cross-selling, consider your loyal customers who are more likely to purchase again. Build campaigns focusing on satisfied customers and promote additional products to them. Train associates to recognize satisfied customers and assess their needs.On the other hand, don't assume that customers are aware of your other offerings. Educate them, and help them understand how those products can deliver value. When speaking to a customer, do so in a personable manner; otherwise, it comes across as a sales pitch. Lastly, avoid unhappy customers as it can further the divide between them and your brand.




Is Cross-Selling Ethical?
Cross-selling is a valid and ethical business practice to bring in more business. Cross-selling isn't meant to trick a customer; it is meant to inform them of alternative goods that may fit a different need. It's simply good business practice is discuss winter coat sales with a sporting enthusiast who is out shopping for new skis.




What Is Cross-Selling on eBay?
eBay features a Cross-Promotion Connections program whereby eBay sellers can connect with each other. When a buyer wins a bid, they are able to see the seller's other listings, as well as their connections listings. Previously, eBay featured a no-cost Cross-selling tool that allowed sellers to promote related products. Sellers could choose to either promote related items or promote discounts for larger orders. This feature was discontinued and is only allowed for select users at certain times.


   The Bottom Line  

Cross-selling is a sales tactic that, if done well, can increase a company's bottom line and customer loyalty. If done poorly, it can erode profits, create dissatisfied customers, and damage a company's reputation. Regardless of how you cross-sell, it can be an effective tool to increase revenues and care for a customer's unmet needs.
What Is Crowdfunding?  

Crowdfunding is the use of small amounts of capital from a large number of individuals to finance a new business venture. Crowdfunding makes use of the easy accessibility of vast networks of people through social media and crowdfunding websites to bring investors and entrepreneurs together, with the potential to increase entrepreneurship by expanding the pool of investors beyond the traditional circle of owners, relatives, and venture capitalists.





Key Takeaways

Restrictions apply to who is allowed to fund a new business and how much they are allowed to contribute.Crowdfunding allows investors to select from hundreds of projects and invest as little as $10.Crowdfunding sites generate revenue from a percentage of the funds raised.The SEC regulates equity-based crowdfunding ventures in the United States.Kickstarter, Indiegogo, and GoFundMe are among the most popular crowdfunding platforms. 


   How Crowdfunding Works  

In most jurisdictions, restrictions apply to who can fund a new business and how much they are allowed to contribute. Similar to the restrictions on hedge fund investing, these regulations are supposed to protect unsophisticated or non-wealthy investors from putting too much of their savings at risk. Because so many new businesses fail, their investors face a high risk of losing their principal.



Crowdfunding has created the opportunity for entrepreneurs to raise hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars from anyone with money to invest. Crowdfunding provides a forum to anyone with an idea to pitch it in front of waiting investors.



One of the more amusing projects to receive funding was from an individual who wanted to create a new potato salad recipe. His fundraising goal was $10, but he raised more than $55,000 from 6,911 backers. Investors can select from hundreds of projects and invest as little as $10. Crowdfunding sites generate revenue from a percentage of the funds raised.


   Types of Crowdfunding  

The two most traditional uses of the term reflect the type of crowdfunding done by start-up companies looking to bring a product or service into the world and by individuals who experienced some type of emergency. Many individuals affected by a natural disaster, hefty medical expense, or another tragic event such as a house fire have received an amount of financial relief they wouldn't otherwise have had access to thanks to crowdfunding platforms.



However, in recent years, some crowdfunding platforms such as Patreon and Substack have extended the reach of crowdfunding to offer a way for creative people—artists, writers, musicians, or podcasters—to sustain their creative work by receiving a steady source of income.


   Popular Crowdfunding Websites  

Crowdfunding websites such as Kickstarter, Indiegogo, and GoFundMe attract hundreds of thousands of people hoping to create, or support, the next big thing.


  GoFundMe  

As of 2021, GoFundMe is the largest crowdfunding platform. Since GoFundMe was founded in 2010, the site has raised over $15 billion through more than 100 million donors. GoFundMe is the site most popular for individuals seeking to recover from a medical expense or disaster such as a house fire, natural disaster, or unexpected emergency expense. Start-up companies tend to use Kickstarter.


  Kickstarter  

Kickstarter is another popular choice. As of May 29, 2022, since it was founded in 2009, Kickstarter has successfully funded over 220,000 projects, with more than $6.6 billion pledged across all Kickstarter projects.



Kickstarter is the most popular crowdfunding site for aspiring businesses hoping to raise capital and reach a larger audience. In fact, unlike GoFundMe, Kickstarter can only be used for creating projects that can be shared with others.



Additionally, Kickstarter cannot be used to raise funds to donate to a charity or cause, projects can't offer incentives like equity, revenue sharing, or investment opportunities, nor can any project involve the site's list of prohibited items such as "any item claiming to diagnose, cure, treat, or prevent an illness or condition," political fundraising, drugs or alcohol, or any contests, coupons, gambling, and raffles.


  Indiegogo  

Indiegogo started as a crowdfunding site initially focused exclusively on raising money for independent films but began accepting projects from any category a year after its launch in 2008.



Indiegogo is seen as a less strict and more flexible platform than Kickstarter, as it gives backers control over whether they want fixed or flexible models—this is probably the most significant difference between the two crowdfunding platforms. Kickstarter releases funds only after the campaign has reached its funding goal, whereas Indiegogo allows the campaigner to receive funding pro-rata, or wait until their target is hit.



As a campaigner, it might be easier and less risky to go with flexible funding (i.e., receiving funds as they come); however, regardless of the amount raised, campaigners must still deliver on any promises made. For a backer, fixed funding is more attractive as it is associated with much less of a risk.






Crowdfunding platform fees range from 5% to 12%. Look out for punitive fee structures before choosing a crowdfunding platform.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Crowdfunding  

The most obvious advantage of crowdfunding for a start-up company or individual is its ability to provide access to a larger and more diverse group of investors/supporters. With the ubiquity of social media, crowdfunding platforms are an incredible way for businesses and individuals to both grow their audience and receive the funding they need.



Furthermore, many crowdfunding projects are rewards-based; investors may get to participate in the launch of a new product or receive a gift for their investment. For instance, the maker of a new soap made out of bacon fat may send a free bar to each of its investors. Video games are a popular crowdfunding investment for gamers, who often receive advance copies of the game as a reward.



Equity-based crowdfunding is growing in popularity because it allows startup companies to raise money without giving up control to venture capital investors. In some cases, it also offers investors the opportunity to earn an equity position in the venture. In the United States, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulates equity-based crowdfunding.



Potential disadvantages of crowdfunding include the possible damage to you or your company's reputation caused by "resorting" to crowdfunding, the fees associated with the crowdfunding site, and, at least on some platforms, if you don't reach your funding goal, any finance that has been pledged will be returned to your investors and you will receive nothing.





Access to funding you otherwise might not qualify for from traditional sources

Great way to interact with potential consumers
Ability to gauge public opinion on your product




Must follow the rules/fees of the crowdfunding platform

In some cases, if you don't reach your funding goal, any finance that has been pledged will be returned to your investors
Possible damage to your start-up company's reputation





   Examples of Crowdfunding  

Many of the products and businesses crowdfunded on Kickstarter became very successful and lucrative endeavors. For instance, Oculus VR, an American company specializing in virtual reality hardware and software products, was funded through the site. In 2012, founder Palmer Luckey launched a Kickstarter campaign to raise money to make virtual reality headsets designed for video gaming available to developers. The campaign crowdfunded $2.4 million, ten times the original goal of $250,000. In March 2014, Facebook, now Meta (META), acquired Oculus VR for $2.3 billion in cash and stock.



Another example of a company that rose to success through the help of Kickstarter campaigns is M3D, a company founded by two friends that manufacture small 3D printers. David Jones and Michael Armani raised $3.4 million for their Micro 3D printer on the crowdfunding site in 2014. The tiny 3D printer, which comes with a variety of durable 3D inks, is now available at Staples, Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN), Brookstone, and elsewhere.



In April 2019, Critical Role, a weekly live-streamed tabletop roleplaying game featuring a group of prominent voice actors, raised $4.7 million in just 24 hours for its latest animated special “The Legend of Vox Machina.” No other 2019 Kickstarter campaign raised that amount over their entire 30- to 60-day raising period.




What Is crowdfunding and how does it work?
Crowdfunding is the use of small amounts of capital from a large number of individuals to finance a new business venture. Depending on the type of crowdfunding, investors either donate money altruistically or get rewards such as equity in the company that raised the money.




Do you pay back crowdfunding?
For crowdfunding that operates on a donation basis, the company does not need to pay back investors. However many companies offer incentives for early backers such as an advance copy of the product.




Is crowdfunding legal in Australia?
Yes. In 2017, the Australian government amended the 2001 Corporations Act to provide a legislative framework for crowd-sourced funding.




Is crowdfunding legal in Nigeria?
All Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) incorporated as a company in Nigeria with a minimum of two-years operating track record are eligible to raise funds through a Crowdfunding Portal, in exchange for the issuance of shares, debentures, or such other investment instrument as the Commission may determine from time to time.
What Is the Crowding Out Effect?  

The crowding out effect is an economic theory that argues that rising public sector spending drives down or even eliminates private sector spending.



To spend more, the government needs added revenue. It obtains it by raising taxes or by borrowing through the sale of Treasury securities. Higher taxes can mean reduced income and spending by individuals and businesses.



Treasury sales can increase interest rates and borrowing costs. That can reduce borrowing demand and spending.



All told, these government activities are thought to result in the crowding out of spending by private individuals and companies.





Key Takeaways

The crowding out effect theory suggests that rising public sector spending drives down private sector spending.To spend more, the government needs more revenue, which it gets through higher taxes and/or sales of Treasuries.This can reduce private sector income and loan demand, thus decreasing spending and borrowing.There are three main crowding out effects: economic, social welfare, and infrastructure.Crowding in suggests that government borrowing and spending can increase demand.












Investopedia / Nez Riaz


   Understanding the Crowding Out Effect  

The crowding out effect is based on the supply of and demand for money. According to the theory, as the government takes revenue-raising actions, such as increasing taxes or debt security sales, the consumer and business demand for resulting higher interest rate loans decreases.



So does their desire to spend a potentially reduced amount of income. (Their desire to earn a higher rate of interest on their savings may also come into play.) Thus, the government crowds out their spending by increasing its own.



Bear in mind that the crowding out effect theory runs counter to older, well-known economic theories that hold that government spending during periods of slowing economic activity actually increases spending by consumers and businesses by, essentially, putting more money in their pockets.



One of the most common forms of crowding out takes place when a large government, such as that of the U.S., increases its borrowing and sets in motion a chain of events that results in the curtailing of private sector spending.



The sheer scale of this type of borrowing can lead to substantial rises in the real interest rate. This can absorb the economy's lending capacity and discourage businesses from making capital investments.



Companies often fund capital projects in part or entirely through financing. The increased cost of borrowing money makes traditionally profitable projects that are funded through loans cost-prohibitive.






Increased borrowing by large governments is considered to be a common cause of crowding out. The borrowing can force interest rates higher and dampen loan demand by those in the private sector.


   Types of Crowding Out Effects  
  Economic  

Reductions in corporate capital spending can partially offset benefits brought about through government borrowing, such as those of economic stimulus. However, this is only likely when the economy is operating at capacity. In this respect, government stimulus is theoretically more effective when the economy is below capacity.



If this is the case, however, an economic downswing may occur. This can reduce the revenues that the government collects through taxes and spur it to borrow even more money. Theoretically, this, in turn, can lead to a vicious cycle of borrowing and crowding out.


  Social Welfare  

Crowding out may also take place because of social welfare, albeit indirectly. When governments raise taxes to introduce or expand welfare programs, individuals and businesses are left with less discretionary income. This can reduce charitable contributions.



In this respect, public sector expenditures for social welfare can reduce private sector giving for social welfare, offsetting the government's spending on the same causes.



Similarly, the creation or expansion of public health insurance programs such as Medicaid can prompt those covered by private insurance to switch to the public option. Left with fewer customers and a smaller risk pool, private health insurance companies may have to raise premiums, leading to further reductions in private coverage.


  Infrastructure  

Another form of crowding out can occur because of government-funded infrastructure development projects. These can discourage private enterprise from launching similar projects in the same area of the market because they're now perceived as undesirable. Or corporate number crunchers might indicate that such investments are projected to be unprofitable. 



This often occurs with bridges and roadways, as government-funded development deters companies from building toll roads or other related infrastructure.


   Example of the Crowding Out Effect  

Suppose a firm has been planning a capital project, with an estimated cost of $5 million, an assumed 3% interest rate on its loans, and a projected return of $6 million. The firm anticipates earning $1 million in net income (NI).



Due to the shaky state of the economy, however, the government announces a stimulus package that will help businesses in need. This raises the interest rate on the firm's new loans to 4%.



Because the interest rate that the firm originally factored into its accounting has increased by 33.3%, its profit model shifts. The firm now estimates that it will need to spend $5.75 million on the project in order to make the same $6 million in return. Its projected earnings drop by 75% to $250,000.



Therefore, the company decides that it would be better off pursuing a different project or halting major projects for the time being.


   Crowding Out vs. Crowding in  

Chartalism, Post-Keynesian economics, and other macroeconomic theories posit that government borrowing in a modern economy operating significantly below capacity can actually increase demand. It does so by generating employment and thereby stimulating private spending. This process is often referred to as "crowding in."



The crowding in theory has gained some currency among economists in recent years after it was noted that, during the Great Recession of 2007–2009, massive spending by the federal government on bonds and other securities actually had the effect of reducing interest rates.




Is Crowding Out Good or Bad?
Crowding out, if it exists, can be seen as negative because it can slow economic activity and growth. This can happen as higher taxes reduce spendable income and increased government borrowing raises borrowing costs and reduces private sector demand for loans.




Why Is Crowding Out Important to Understand?
It's important to understand because it contradicts the well-understood theory that government spending boosts private sector spending and supports a vibrant economy.




How Does Crowding Out Affect Aggregate Demand?
According to the theory's effect, it should reduce aggregate demand because it discourages spending and the demand for borrowing due to higher interest rates and reduced income.


   The Bottom Line  

The crowding out effect is a theory that suggests that increased government spending ultimately decreases private sector spending.



This is due to the higher cost of loans and reduced income that can result when the government increases taxes or borrows by selling Treasuries to obtain more revenue for its own spending.
What Is Crude Oil?  

Crude oil is a naturally occurring liquid petroleum product composed of hydrocarbon deposits and other organic materials formed from the remains of animals and plants that lived millions of years ago. These organisms were covered by layers of sand, silt, and rock, subject to heat and pressure, and eventually turned into a type of fossil fuel that is refined into usable products, including gasoline, diesel, liquefied petroleum gases, and feedstock for the petrochemical industry.



Crude oil is a nonrenewable resource, which means that it can’t be replaced naturally at the rate we consume it and is, therefore, a limited resource.





Key Takeaways

Crude oil is a raw natural resource that is extracted from the earth and refined into products such as gasoline, jet fuel, and other petroleum products.It is composed of hydrocarbon deposits and other organic materials that were formed from the remains of animals and plants that lived millions of years ago.Petroleum is a more general word that refers to crude oil, the raw oil that is extracted out of the ground, and other products formed from refined crude oil.Crude oil is a global commodity that trades in markets around the world, both as spot oil and via derivatives contracts.Many economists view crude oil as the single most important commodity in the world, as it is currently the primary source of energy production.












Investopedia / NoNo Flores


   Understanding Crude Oil  

Crude oil is typically obtained through drilling, where it is usually found alongside other resources, such as natural gas (which is lighter and therefore sits above the crude oil) and saline water (which is denser and sinks below). After its extraction, crude oil is refined and processed into a variety of forms, such as gasoline, kerosene, and asphalt, for sale to consumers.



Crude oil is one of the world’s most important commodities, and its price can have ripple effects through the broader economy. Rising oil prices mean higher gasoline prices at the pump, higher shipping costs, and increased input costs for producers. Crude oil prices are driven mainly by the principles of supply and demand. Oversupply and shrinking demand lower prices, while rising demand and short supply push prices up. Perceived supply and demand changes can be driven by geopolitical events or natural disasters that affect oil-producing nations.



Investors and speculators can trade oil via futures markets, spot markets, or exchange-traded funds (ETFs).


  A Historical View  

Although fossil fuels such as coal have been harvested for centuries, crude oil was first discovered and developed during the Industrial Revolution, and its industrial uses were developed in the 19th century. Newly invented machines revolutionized the way we do work, and they depended on these resources to run.



Today, the world’s economy is largely dependent on fossil fuels such as crude oil, and the demand for these resources often sparks political unrest, as a small number of countries control the largest reservoirs. Like any industry, supply and demand heavily affect the prices and profitability of crude oil. The United States, Saudi Arabia, and Russia are the leading producers of oil in the world.



In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the U.S. was one of the world’s leading oil producers, and U.S. companies developed the technology to make oil into useful products like gasoline. During the middle and last decades of the 20th century, U.S. oil production fell dramatically, and the U.S. became an energy importer. In 2021, however, crude oil net imports were at the second-lowest annual level since 1985.



Its major supplier was the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), founded in 1960, which consists of the world’s largest (by volume) holders of crude oil and natural gas reserves. As such, the OPEC nations had a great deal of economic leverage in determining supply, and therefore the price, of oil in the late 20th century.



In the early 21st century, the development of new technology—particularly hydro-fracturing, known as fracking—created a second U.S. energy boom, largely decreasing OPEC’s importance and influence. Heavy reliance on fossil fuels is cited as one of the main causes of global warming, a topic that has gained traction in the past several decades. Risks surrounding oil drilling include oil spills and ocean acidification, which damage the ecosystem. Also in the 21st century, many manufacturers have begun creating products that rely on alternative sources of energy, such as cars run by electricity, homes powered by solar panels, and communities powered by wind turbines.






Oil is often called “black gold,” yet crude oil has a range of viscosity and can vary in color from black to yellow depending on its hydrocarbon composition. Distillation, the process by which oil is heated and separated into different components, is the first stage in refining.


   Crude Oil vs. Petroleum  

Petroleum, a name that comes from the Latin words “petra,” meaning rock, and “oleum,” meaning oil, is often used interchangeably with crude oil. Essentially, petroleum is a more general word that refers to crude oil, the raw, unprocessed oil that is extracted out of the ground, and other petroleum products formed from refined crude oil.



Petroleum products cover everything that a refinery produces from crude oil or natural gas. These products include diesel, gasoline, fuel oil, and more.


   Investing in Oil  

Investors may purchase two types of oil contracts: spot contracts and futures contracts. To the individual investor, oil can be a speculative asset, a portfolio diversifier, or a hedge against related positions.


  Spot Contracts  

The price of the spot contract reflects the current market price for oil, whereas the futures price reflects the price that buyers are willing to pay for oil on a delivery date set at some point in the future.



The futures price is no guarantee that oil will actually hit that price in the current market when that date comes. It is just the price that, at the time of the contract, purchasers of oil are anticipating. The actual price of oil on that date depends on many factors.



Most commodity contracts that are bought and sold on the spot markets take effect immediately: Money is exchanged, and the purchaser accepts delivery of the goods. In the case of oil, the demand for immediate delivery vs. future delivery is limited, in no small part due to the logistics of transporting oil.



Investors, of course, don’t intend to take delivery of commodities at all (although there have been cases of investor errors that have resulted in unexpected deliveries), so futures contracts are more commonly used by traders and investors.


  Futures Contracts  

An oil futures contract is an agreement to buy or sell a certain number of barrels of oil at a predetermined price, on a predetermined date. When futures are purchased, a contract between buyer and seller is signed and secured with a margin payment that covers a percentage of the total value of the contract.



End-users of oil purchase on the futures market to lock in a price; investors buy futures essentially as a gamble on what the price will actually be down the road, and they profit if they guess correctly. Typically, they will liquidate or roll over their futures holdings before they would have to take delivery.



There are two major oil contracts that are closely watched by oil market participants. In North America, the benchmark for oil futures is West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude, which trades on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX). In Europe, Africa, and the Middle East, the benchmark is North Sea Brent Crude, which trades on the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE).



While the two contracts move somewhat in unison, WTI is more sensitive to American economic developments, and Brent responds more to those in other countries.






There are multiple futures contracts open at once, with most trading in the front-month contract (the nearest futures contract). For this reason, the front month is also known as the most active contract.


  Spot vs. Future Oil Prices  

Futures prices for crude oil can be higher, lower, or equal to spot prices. The price difference between the spot market and the futures market says something about the overall state of the oil market and expectations for it. If the futures prices are higher than the spot prices, this usually means that purchasers expect the market will improve, so they are willing to pay a premium for oil to be delivered at a future date. If the futures prices are lower than the spot prices, this means that buyers expect the market to deteriorate.



“Backwardation” and “contango” are two terms used to describe the relationship between expected future spot prices and actual futures prices. When a market is in contango, the futures price is above the expected spot price. When a market is in normal backwardation, the futures price is below the expected future spot price. The prices of different futures contracts can also vary depending on their projected delivery dates.


   Forecasting Oil Prices  

Economists and experts are hard-pressed to predict the path of crude oil prices, which are volatile and depend on many variables. They use a range of forecasting tools and depend on time to confirm or disprove their predictions. The five models used most often are:



Oil futures prices: Central banks and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) mainly use oil futures contract prices as their gauge. Traders in crude oil futures set prices by two factors: supply and demand, and market sentiment. However, futures prices can be a poor predictor, because they tend to add too much variance to the current price of oil.
Regression-based structural models: Statistical computer programming calculates the probabilities of certain behaviors on the price of oil. For instance, mathematicians may consider forces such as events in OPEC member nations, inventory levels, production costs, or consumption levels. Regression-based models have strong predictive power, but their creators may fail to include one or more factors, or unexpected variables may step in to cause these regression-based models to fail.
Time-series analysis: Some economists use time-series models, such as exponential smoothing models and autoregressive models, which include the categories of ARIMA (autoregressive integrated moving average) and ARCH (autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity)/GARCH (generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity), to correct for the limitations of oil futures prices. These models analyze the history of oil at various points in time to extract meaningful statistics and predict future values based on previously observed values. Time-series analysis sometimes errs, but it usually produces more accurate results when economists apply it to shorter time spans.
Bayesian autoregressive models: One way to improve upon the standard regression-based model is by adding calculations to gauge the probability of the impact of certain predicted events on oil. Most contemporary economists like to use the Bayesian vector autoregressive (BVAR) model for predicting oil prices.
Dynamic stochastic general equilibrium graphs: Dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) models use macroeconomic principles to explain complex economic phenomena—in this case, oil prices. DSGE models sometimes work, but their success depends on events and policies remaining unchanged, as DSGE calculations are based on historical observations.



Each mathematical model is time-dependent, and some models work better at one time than another. Because no one model alone offers a reliably accurate prediction, economists often use a weighted combination of them all to get the most accurate answer. In 2014, for instance, the European Central Bank (ECB) used a four-model combination to predict the course of oil prices to generate a more accurate forecast. There have been times, however, when the ECB has used fewer or more models to capture the best results. Even so, unforeseen factors like natural disasters, political events, or social upheavals can derail the most careful of calculations.


   Oil Industry Information  

Because crude oil prices constantly change and are typically more volatile than stock or currency prices, it is crucial for successful investors and traders to have good information sources that report on the many factors that can influence oil prices. Many websites report crude oil news, but only a few broadcast the breaking news and current prices. The following three offer current information.



MarketWatch: MarketWatch provides a wide range of business news, personal finance information, real-time commentary, investment tools, and data. Despite covering all aspects of financial markets, it tends to be among the first to break stories, putting out headlines as soon as news hits. These headlines can be found at the top right of its home page under the “Latest” tab. MarketWatch also provides details when necessary, posting stories, sometimes only a paragraph or two, to elaborate on its headlines, and updating them throughout the day. The site provides current oil price information, stories detailing oil’s price path—including premarket and closing bell commentary—and multiple feature articles. The site has an active link on its landing page showing the price of WTI oil. Within most articles, MarketWatch also includes an active link to the price of oil, so when you read an article, the price quote included is current. In addition, MarketWatch offers a more in-depth analysis of the economic news driving oil prices.
Reuters Commodities Page: The Reuters news service has a commodity-specific portion of its website that releases breaking oil news, background stories, and current prices. It also offers more recent in-depth stories on, and analysis of, the sector as a whole, including price-driving sector updates, and it is good at releasing any imperative news as it is made public. Reuters also publishes frequent pieces detailing oil’s price movements and the factors behind those movements.
CNBC: CNBC.com has a web page dedicated to oil news. During U.S. market hours, it publishes relevant oil-specific pieces. This works out to be about every hour when you look at its main page. CNBC frequently updates its articles when there is a price movement in oil, but it does not provide a live feed to oil prices like MarketWatch does. It makes up for this, though, by providing a good breadth of oil sector stories, including all major price movers and price-driving developments.




How Do You Invest in Crude Oil?
To an investor, crude oil can be a speculative asset, a portfolio diversifier, or a hedge against related positions. There are two ways to invest in crude oil: futures contracts and spot contracts. The price of the spot contract reflects the current market price for oil, whereas the futures price reflects the price that buyers are willing to pay for oil on a delivery date set at some point in the future.




What Can Spot and Futures Crude Oil Prices Tell an Investor?
The basis, or differences, between oil futures contracts and the spot (cash) market can be indicative of the near-term expectations of oil supply and demand. When futures prices are trading higher than the spot (known as contango), it suggests that traders are willing to pay a premium for oil to be delivered at a future date and that expectations are bullish. When futures are trading below the spot (known as backwardation), it can be a bearish signal.




How Can I Follow the Crude Oil Industry?
Crude oil prices and related market news are available online, often for free. For example, MarketWatch provides up-to-date price quotes, headlines, and commentary. The site has an active link on its landing page showing the price of crude. The Reuters news service is another free site with a commodity-specific portion that shows current prices. CNBC.com, too, has a page dedicated to oil-specific news and recent developments.




What Countries Are Members of OPEC?
According to its statutes, OPEC membership is open to any country that is a substantial exporter of oil and shares the ideals of the organization. After the five founding members, OPEC grew by 11 additional member countries as of 2019. They are, in order of joining, as follows:Iran (1960)Iraq (1960)Kuwait (1960)Saudi Arabia (1960)Venezuela (1960)Qatar (1961)Indonesia (1962)Libya (1962)United Arab Emirates (1967)Algeria (1969)Nigeria (1971)Ecuador (1973)Gabon (1975)Angola (2007)Equatorial Guinea (2017)Congo (2018)Ecuador withdrew from the organization on Jan. 1, 2020. Qatar terminated its membership on Jan. 1, 2019, and Indonesia suspended its membership on Nov. 30, 2016. Thus, as of 2022, the organization consists of 13 states.


   The Bottom Line  

The importance of crude oil cannot be overstated. It is a major source of energy, generating heat and powering various types of vehicles and machinery. It is also used as a component in many of the products that we use every day, including plastics, paints, and cosmetics.



Concerns about the damage it does to the environment mean crude oil isn’t favorable to everyone. However, most agree that we currently cannot live without it and that no longer extracting and refining crude oil would lead the global economy to grind to a halt.
What Are Crypto Tokens?  

A crypto token is a representation of an asset or interest that has been tokenized on an existing cryptocurrency's blockchain. Crypto tokens and cryptocurrencies share many similarities, but cryptocurrencies are intended to be used as a medium of exchange, a means of payment, and a measure and store of value.



Crypto tokens are often used to raise funds for projects and are usually created, distributed, sold, and circulated through an initial coin offering (ICO) process, which involves a crowdfunding round.





Key Takeaways

Crypto tokens are a digital representation of an asset or interest in something and are built on a blockchain.Crypto tokens can also be used as investments, to store value, or to make purchases.Cryptocurrencies are digital representations of value designed to facilitate transactions (making and receiving payments) using blockchain technology.Often purchased through an initial coin offering, crypto tokens are generally used to raise funds to develop projects.


   History of Crypto Tokens  

Although there were cryptocurrencies that forked from Bitcoin and Ethereum previous to the 2017 ICO boom, the first recognized ICO and token was Mastercoin. Mastercoin was created by J.R. Willet and announced on January 2012 via Bitcoin Forum. He titled his whitepaper "The Second Bitcoin Whitepaper."



Mastercoin was one of the first projects to describe using layers to enhance a cryptocurrency's functionality. The project linked the value of Mastercoin to Bitcoin's value and explained how the project would use the funds to pay developers to create a way for users to make new coins from their Mastercoins.


  The ICO Boom  

Between 2012 and 2016, crypto token creation and ICO increased until 2017—token offerings skyrocketed as investors seemed to become aware of them and the possible increase in value they promised. Developers, businesses, and scammers began creating tokens rapidly in attempts to take advantage of the fund-raising boom—so much so that regulatory agencies began issuing alerts to investors warning them about the risks of ICOs.






Not all crypto tokens and ICOs are scams. Many are legitimate efforts to raise funds for projects or startups.


  After the Bubble  

The ICO bubble burst in 2018—shortly after, initial exchange offerings (IEO) emerged, where exchanges began facilitating token offerings. Exchanges claimed to have vetted the token offerings, reducing the risks to investors; however, scammers used the exchanges to promote their scams.



Regulatory agencies issued alerts to investors about the risks involved in participating in an IEO; they also alerted exchanges that they were required to register with the authorities if they were facilitating these fund-raising efforts. The logic was that the exchanges might be acting as alternative trading systems or broker/dealers, which by law are required to register.



Crypto tokens are still being created and used to raise funds for projects through ICOs. Whitepapers read like pitchbooks, outlining the token's purpose, how it will be sold, how the funds will be used, and how investors will benefit.


   Concerns About Crypto Tokens  

The single most important concern about crypto tokens is that because they are used to raise funds, they can be and have been used by scammers to steal money from investors.



However, it can be difficult to distinguish between a scam token and one representing an actual business endeavor.



Here are some factors to look for when you're looking at a crypto token:



Based on jurisdiction, it might need to be registered. The SEC uses the Howey Test to see if an asset is a security. If it needs to be registered and isn't, it is illegal in its current form.
Look at the team behind the ICO and their backgrounds. Determine if they are a legitimate business by checking the address and phone numbers, and visit the website of the Secretary of State for the state they claim to be registered in and search for them. If you can't find information about it other than in a white paper and custom website, it might be a scam.
ICOs from outside of the U.S. might be difficult to research. One such token was BananaCoin, issued as a fundraiser for banana plantations in Laos. Investors were told they could exchange their tokens for an equal value of bananas or funds after launch.
Many crypto tokens are listed on non-regulated exchanges outside of the United States. If it isn't listed on a regulated exchange, the odds of it being a scam are much higher.
Even crypto tokens listed on a registered exchange can be scams.


   How Crypto Tokens Work  

Crypto refers to the various encryption algorithms and cryptographic techniques that safeguard these entries, such as elliptical curve encryption, public-private key pairs, and hashing functions. Cryptocurrencies, on the other hand, are systems that allow for online secure online payments.



Crypto tokens often serve as the transactional units on the blockchains that are created using standard templates like that of the Ethereum network, which allows a user to create tokens. Such blockchains work on the concept of smart contracts or decentralized applications, wherein the programmable, self-executing code is used to process and manage the various transactions that occur.






A smart contract is a self-executing program that automates transactions. Contrary to popular belief, the terms of the contract are not written into the lines of code. Terms are agreed upon by the parties involved, and the code is written to execute them.



For example, you might receive a crypto token representing a certain number of customer loyalty points on a blockchain that manages such details for a retail chain. Another crypto token might give the token holder the entitlement to view 10 hours of streaming content on a video-sharing blockchain. A token can even represent other cryptocurrencies, such as a crypto token equalling 15 bitcoins on a particular blockchain. Such crypto tokens are tradable and transferrable among the various participants of the blockchain



Investors can use crypto tokens for any number of reasons. They can hold onto them to represent a stake in the cryptocurrency company or for an economic reason—to trade or make purchases of goods and services. As a practical example, decentralized storage provider Bluzelle allows you to stake your tokensto help secure its network while earning transaction fees and rewards.






The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) continues to issue alerts about ICO fraud, so be sure you research before investing in any cryptocurrency—the same way you would with any stock.


   Crypto Tokens vs. Cryptocurrencies  

The term crypto token is often erroneously used interchangeably with "cryptocurrency." However, these terms are distinct from one another.



A cryptocurrency is used for making or receiving payments using a blockchain, with the most popular cryptocurrency being Bitcoin (BTCUSD). Altcoins are alternative cryptocurrencies that were launched after the massive success achieved by Bitcoin. The term means alternative coins—that is—cryptocurrency other than Bitcoin. They were launched as enhanced Bitcoin substitutes that have claimed to overcome some of Bitcoin's pain points. Litecoin (LTCUSD), Bitcoin Cash (BCHUSD), Namecoin, and Dogecoin (DOGEUSD) are typical examples of altcoins. Though each has tasted varying levels of success, none have managed to gain popularity akin to Bitcoin's.



Crypto tokens operate on a blockchain, which acts as a medium for the creation and execution of decentralized apps and smart contracts. The tokens are used to facilitate transactions on the blockchain. In many cases, tokens go through an ICO and then transistion to this stage after the ICO completes.




What Is the Purpose of Tokens?
Crypto tokens generally facilitate transactions on a blockchain but can represent an investor's stake in a company or serve an economic purpose, just like legal tender. This means token holders can use them to make purchases or trades just like other securities to make a profit.




Is Bitcoin a Token or a Coin?
Bitcoin is a cryptocurrency, generally used to trade, make purchases, or store value.




What Is the Difference Between a Crypto Coin and a Crypto Token?
Crypto coins are designed to be used as currency, while crypto tokens are intended to represent an interest in an asset and facilitate transactions on a blockchain.




What Are Some of the Different Types of Tokens That Reside on Blockchains?
Blockchain tokens include reward, utility, security, governance, and asset tokens.


   The Bottom Line  

Crypto tokens are digital representations of interest in an asset or used to facilitate transactions on a blockchain. They are often confused with cryptocurrency because they are also tradeable and exchangeable.



Crypto tokens are often used as a way to raise funds for projects in initial coin offerings. ICOs have been abused by many parties to fool investors into contributing funds, only to disappear, but many are valid fundraising attempts by legitimate businesses. If you're considering crypto tokens as an investment, be sure to do your research on the team or company offering them.



Investing in cryptocurrencies and other Initial Coin Offerings (“ICOs”) is highly risky and speculative, and this article is not a recommendation by Investopedia or the writer to invest in cryptocurrencies or other ICOs. Since each individual's situation is unique, a qualified professional should always be consulted before making any financial decisions. Investopedia makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy or timeliness of the information contained herein. As of the date this article was written, the author does not own cryptocurrency.
What Is Cryptocurrency?  

A cryptocurrency is a digital or virtual currency secured by cryptography, which makes it nearly impossible to counterfeit or double-spend. Most cryptocurrencies exist on decentralized networks using blockchain technology—a distributed ledger enforced by a disparate network of computers.



A defining feature of cryptocurrencies is that they are generally not issued by any central authority, rendering them theoretically immune to government interference or manipulation.





Key Takeaways

A cryptocurrency is a form of digital asset based on a network that is distributed across a large number of computers. This decentralized structure allows them to exist outside the control of governments and central authorities.Some experts believe blockchain and related technologies will disrupt many industries, including finance and law.The advantages of cryptocurrencies include cheaper and faster money transfers and decentralized systems that do not collapse at a single point of failure.The disadvantages of cryptocurrencies include their price volatility, high energy consumption for mining activities, and use in criminal activities.












Investopedia / Tara Anand


   Understanding Cryptocurrencies  

Cryptocurrencies are digital or virtual currencies underpinned by cryptographic systems. They enable secure online payments without the use of third-party intermediaries. "Crypto" refers to the various encryption algorithms and cryptographic techniques that safeguard these entries, such as elliptical curve encryption, public-private key pairs, and hashing functions.



Central to the appeal and functionality of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies is blockchain technology. As its name indicates, a blockchain is essentially a set of connected blocks of information on an online ledger. Each block contains a set of transactions that have been independently verified by each validator on a network.



Every new block generated must be verified before being confirmed, making it almost impossible to forge transaction histories. The contents of the online ledger must be agreed upon by a network of individual nodes, or computers that maintain the ledger.



Experts say that blockchain technology can serve multiple industries, supply chains, and processes such as online voting and crowdfunding. Financial institutions such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) are using blockchain technology to lower transaction costs by streamlining payment processing.


   Types of Cryptocurrency  

Many cryptocurrencies were created to facilitate work done on the blockchain they are built on. For example, Ethereum's ether was designed to be used as payment for validating transactions and opening blocks. When the blockchain transitioned to proof-of-stake in September 2022, ether (ETH) inherited an additional duty as the blockchain's staking mechanism. Ripple's XRP is designed to be used by banks to facilitate transfers between different geographies.



Because there are so many cryptocurrencies on the market, it's important to understand the types of cryptocurrencies. Knowing whether the coin you're looking at has a purpose can help you decide whether it is worth investing in—a cryptocurrency with a purpose is likely to be less risky than one that doesn't have a use.



Most of the time, when you hear about cryptocurrency types, you hear the coin's name. However, coin names differ from coin types. Here are some of the types you'll find with some of the names of tokens in that category:



Utility: XRP and ETH are two examples of utility tokens. They serve specific functions on their respective blockchains.Transactional: Tokens designed to be used as a payment method. Bitcoin is the most well-known of these.Governance: These tokens represent voting or other rights on a blockchain, such as Uniswap.Platform: These tokens support applications built to use a blockchain, such as Solana.Security tokens: Tokens representing ownership of an asset, such as a stock that has been tokenized (value transferred to the blockchain). MS Token is an example of a securitized token. If you can find one of these for sale, you can gain partial ownership of the Millenium Sapphire.



If you find a cryptocurrency that doesn't fall into one of these categories, you've found a new category or something that needs to be investigated to be sure it's legitimate.


   Are Cryptocurrencies Legal?  

Fiat currencies derive their authority from the government or monetary authorities. For example, each dollar bill is backstopped by the U. S. government.



But cryptocurrencies are not backed by any public or private entities. Therefore, it has been difficult to make a case for their legal status in different financial jurisdictions throughout the world. It doesn't help matters that cryptocurrencies have primarily functioned outside most existing financial infrastructure.


  In the US  

The legal status of cryptocurrencies creates implications for their use in daily transactions and trading. In June 2019, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) recommended that wire transfers of cryptocurrencies should be subject to the requirements of its Travel Rule, which requires AML compliance.






Although cryptocurrencies are considered a form of money, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) treats them as financial assets or property for tax purposes. And, as with most other investments, if you reap capital gains selling or trading cryptocurrencies, the government wants a piece of the profits. How exactly the IRS taxes digital assets—either as capital gains or ordinary income—depends on how long the taxpayer held the cryptocurrency and how they used it.



In the United States in July 2023, courts ruled that cryptocurrencies are considered securities when purchased by institutional buyers but not by retail investors purchased on exchanges.



Enthusiasts called it a victory for crypto; however, crypto exchanges are regulated by the SEC, as are coin offerings or sales to institutional investors. So, crypto is legal in the U.S., but regulatory agencies are slowly gaining ground in the industry.






As of August 2023, El Salvador is the the only countries to accept Bitcoin as legal tender for monetary transactions. In the rest of the world, cryptocurrency regulation varies by jurisdiction.


  In Asia  

Japan's Payment Services Act defines Bitcoin as legal property. Cryptocurrency exchanges operating in the country are required to collect information about the customer and details relating to the wire transfer. China has banned cryptocurrency exchanges, transactions, and mining within its borders, but has a Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC). India was reported to be formulating a framework for cryptocurrencies, but until it is enacted, crypto is not yet illegal. Exchanges are free to offer cryptocurrencies.


  In Europe  

Cryptocurrencies are legal in the European Union. Derivatives and other products that use cryptocurrencies must qualify as "financial instruments." In June 2023, the European Commission's Markets in Crypto-Assets (MiCA) regulation went into effect. This law sets safeguards and establishes rules for companies or vendors providing financial services using cryptocurrencies.


   Are Cryptocurrencies Safe Investments?  

Cryptocurrencies have attracted a reputation as unstable investments due to high investor losses due to scams, hacks, bugs, and volatility. Although the underlying cryptography and blockchain are generally secure, the technical complexity of using and storing crypto assets can be a significant hazard to new users.



In addition to the market risks associated with speculative assets, cryptocurrency investors should be aware of the following risks:



User risk: Unlike traditional finance, there is no way to reverse or cancel a cryptocurrency transaction after it has already been sent. By some estimates, about one-fifth of all bitcoins are now inaccessible due to lost passwords or incorrect sending addresses.Regulatory risks: The regulatory status of some cryptocurrencies is still unclear, with many governments seeking to regulate them as securities, currencies, or both. A sudden regulatory crackdown could make it challenging to sell cryptocurrencies or cause a market-wide price drop.Counterparty risks: Many investors and merchants rely on exchanges or other custodians to store their cryptocurrency. Theft or loss by one of these third parties could result in losing one's entire investment.Management risks: Due to the lack of coherent regulations, there are few protections against deceptive or unethical management practices. Many investors have lost large sums to management teams that failed to deliver a product.Programming risks: Many investment and lending platforms use automated smart contracts to control the movement of user deposits. An investor using one of these platforms assumes the risk that a bug or exploit in these programs could cause them to lose their investment.Market Manipulation: Market manipulation remains a substantial problem in cryptocurrency, with influential people, organizations, and exchanges acting unethically.



Despite these risks, cryptocurrencies have seen a significant price leap, with the total market capitalization rising to about $1.2 trillion. Despite the asset's speculative nature, some have created substantial fortunes by taking on the risk of investing in early-stage cryptocurrencies.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Cryptocurrency  

Cryptocurrencies were introduced with the intent to revolutionize financial infrastructure. As with every revolution, however, there are tradeoffs involved. At the current stage of development for cryptocurrencies, there are many differences between the theoretical ideal of a decentralized system with cryptocurrencies and its practical implementation.





Advantages

Removes single points of failure
Easier to transfer funds between parties
Removes third parties
Can be used to generate returns
Remittances are streamlined



Disadvantages

Transactions are pseudonymous
Pseudonymity allows for criminal uses
Have become highly centralized
Expensive to participate in a network and earn
Off-chain security issues
Prices are very volatile





  Advantages Explained  

Cryptocurrencies represent a new, decentralized paradigm for money. In this system, centralized intermediaries, such as banks and monetary institutions, are not necessary to enforce trust and police transactions between two parties. Thus, a system with cryptocurrencies eliminates the possibility of a single point of failure—such as a large financial institution setting off a cascade of global crises, such as the one triggered in 2008 by the failure of large investment banks in the United States.



Cryptocurrencies promise to make transferring funds directly between two parties easier without needing a trusted third party like a bank or a credit card company. Such decentralized transfers are secured by the use of public keys and private keys and different forms of incentive systems, such as proof of work or proof of stake.



Because they do not use third-party intermediaries, cryptocurrency transfers between two transacting parties can be faster than standard money transfers. Flash loans in decentralized finance are an excellent example of such decentralized transfers. These loans, which are processed without backing collateral, can be executed within seconds and are used in trading.



Cryptocurrency investments can generate profits. Cryptocurrency markets have skyrocketed in value over the past decade, reaching almost $2 trillion. As of July 2023, Bitcoin was valued at more than $565 billion in crypto markets.



The remittance economy is testing one of cryptocurrency's most prominent use cases. Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin serve as intermediate currencies to streamline money transfers across borders. Thus, a fiat currency is converted to Bitcoin (or another cryptocurrency), transferred across borders, and subsequently converted to the destination fiat currency without third-party involvement.


  Disadvantages Explained  

Though they claim to be an anonymous form of transaction, cryptocurrencies are pseudonymous. They leave a digital trail that agencies like the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) can follow. This opens up the possibility for governments, authorities, and others to track financial transactions.



Cryptocurrencies have become a popular tool with criminals for nefarious activities such as money laundering and illicit purchases. The case of Dread Pirate Roberts, who ran a marketplace to sell drugs on the dark web, is already well known. Cryptocurrencies have also become a favorite of hackers who use them for ransomware activities.



In theory, cryptocurrencies are meant to be decentralized, their wealth distributed between many parties on a blockchain. In reality, ownership is highly concentrated. For example, just 100 addresses hold roughly 12% of circulating bitcoin and total value.



One of the conceits of cryptocurrencies is that anyone can mine them using a computer with an Internet connection. However, mining popular cryptocurrencies require considerable energy, sometimes as much energy as entire countries consume. The expensive energy costs and the unpredictability of mining have concentrated mining among large firms whose revenues run into billions of dollars. For example, only 98 (2%) of the 4,882 Bitcoin blocks opened from Dec. 29, 2022, to Jan. 29, 2023, were opened by unknown addresses—the other 98% were opened by mining pools.



Though cryptocurrency blockchains are highly secure, off-chain crypto-related key storage repositories, such as exchanges and wallets, can be hacked. Many cryptocurrency exchanges and wallets have been hacked over the years, sometimes resulting in the theft of millions of dollars in coins.



Cryptocurrencies traded in public markets suffer from price volatility, so investments require accurate price monitoring. For example, Bitcoin has experienced rapid surges and crashes in its value, climbing to nearly $65,000 in November 2021 before dropping to just over $20,000 a year and a half later. As a result, many people consider cryptocurrencies to be a short-lived fad or speculative bubble.




How Do You Buy Cryptocurrencies?
You can purchase cryptocurrency from popular crypto exchanges such as Coinbase, apps such as Cash App, or through brokers. Another popular way to invest in cryptocurrencies is through financial derivatives, such as CME's Bitcoin futures, or other instruments, such as Bitcoin trusts and ETFs.




What Is the Point of Cryptocurrency?
Cryptocurrencies are a new paradigm for money. They promise to streamline existing financial architecture to make it faster and cheaper. In addition, their technology and architecture decentralize existing monetary systems and make it possible for transacting parties to exchange value and money independently of intermediary institutions such as banks.




What Are the Most Popular Cryptocurrencies?
Bitcoin is the most popular cryptocurrency, followed by other cryptocurrencies such as Ethereum, Binance Coin, Solana, and Cardano.


   The Bottom Line  

Cryptocurrencies are digital assets that are secured by cryptography. As a relatively new technology, they are highly speculative, and it is important to understand the risks involved before making an investment.



The comments, opinions, and analyses expressed on Investopedia are for informational purposes online. Read our warranty and liability disclaimer for more info. As of the date this article was written, the author does not own cryptocurrency.
What Is Cum Dividend?  

A stock is cum dividend, which means "with dividend," when a company has declared that there will be a dividend in the future but has not yet paid it out. A stock will trade cum dividend until the ex-dividend date. After that, the stock trades without its dividend rights. When the buyer receives the next dividend scheduled for distribution, the share is cum dividend.





Key Takeaways

A stock is cum dividend, which means "with dividend," when a company has declared that there will be a dividend in the future but has not yet paid it out.In order to buy a share cum dividend, the buyer must complete the purchase before a certain point in the dividend period, called the record date.Since information on dividends is publicly available, it is incorporated into the share price under the efficient market hypothesis.


   How Cum Dividend Works  

Before the announcement of year-end results for companies, dates are set out for closing the register for dividend payments and scrips. These dates will determine the qualification for dividends and scrips. A scrip is a document acknowledging a debt. Companies short on cash often pay scrip dividends instead of cash dividends.



Cum dividend is the status of a security when a company is preparing to pay out a dividend at a later date. The seller of a stock cum dividend is selling the right to the share and the right to the next dividend distribution. This situation often results from the timing of the sale rather than the preference of the seller.






Stock price movements based on the expected future of the company usually influence investment returns more than dividends.



In order to buy a share cum dividend, the buyer must complete the purchase before a certain point in the dividend period, called the record date. Often, companies will require the sale to be completed two business days before the end of the period. However, some corporations will push the deadline to the last day of the period. If the buyer completes the recording of the transaction in time, they will receive the eventual distribution. If the buyer misses the deadline, then the share is sold ex-dividend, or without the right to the next distribution. The dates are set based on the declaration date and recording date chosen by the company that issues the stock.



There is no specific schedule for the release of dividends, and the payment dates can vary from company to company. Some companies offer quarterly dividends, while others may pay dividends only once or twice a year. While it is not typical, some companies pay dividends monthly.


   Special Considerations  
  Declared Dividends  

Cum dividend rights include those associated with the next declared dividend. A declared dividend is the amount the board of directors has agreed upon through a motion authorizing the payments. Once they are declared, dividends effectively function as liabilities for the company. As dividends are a portion of a firm’s profits, these amounts can fluctuate.



A company declares the dividend on the declaration date. Next, it sets a recording date that the buyer must meet for it to transfer the dividend. Often, a buyer must purchase a share at least two business days before the recording date to get the dividend. This cutoff date is the ex-dividend date or ex-date. If a buyer purchases a share after the ex-date, the seller sells it ex-dividend instead of cum dividend. In this case, the buyer would get the stock but would not be entitled to the distribution.


  Dividend Rights and Purchase Price  

The price of the stock will adjust depending on if it is cum dividend or ex-dividend. Since information on dividends is publicly available, it is incorporated into the share price under the efficient market hypothesis. A strategy of buying at the last possible date, collecting the dividend, and then selling the stock is far too naive to succeed.


   Example of Cum Dividend  

Let's say an investor owns 100 shares of ecommerce firm PricedToSell, and the company's board of directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share. The ex-dividend date is ten days away. The investor is considering selling their shares to finance another purchase. If they sell cum dividend, the buyer would receive the 100 shares at the current price and would be entitled to the $10 in dividend payouts.



Suppose the seller holds off on selling during the cum dividend period, waiting to see if other investments pan out. Those investments don't end up panning out, and the seller is forced to sell the 100 shares of PricedToSell. However, the cum dividend date has passed, and the shares are ex-dividend. To reflect the loss of the dividend, the market price of the shares will be $10 lower, all other things being equal. While the buyer won't receive that quarter's distribution, they will be entitled to future distributions if they continue to hold the shares.
What Is Cum Laude?  

The meaning of cum laude is "with praise" or "with honor" in Latin and represents an academic level of achievement. Educational institutions use the phrase to signify an academic degree awarded to someone with honorable excellence in academic coursework. It is a mark of distinction that some students and others use on their resumes to illustrate their success in their higher education.



Cum laude is one of three commonly used Latin honors designations recognized in the United States, the other two being summa cum laude and magna cum laude. The terms come from Latin, so they are often called Latin honors. They are common in the United States, but very few countries around the world use them. This honor is awarded due to academic success and reflects strong grades.





Key Takeaways

Cum laude is one of three "Latin honors" that educational institutions bestow on someone's academic degree.The phrase is Latin for "with distinction," or "with honor," or "with praise."Educational institutions have different academic criteria that must be met for each honor.Students are never allowed to apply or campaign for Latin honors.Students must have a specific grade point average even to be considered for this honor.


   Understanding Cum Laude  

Cum laude signifies a distinguished level of academic achievement. An even higher distinction is magna cum laude, which means "with high honor" or "with high praise." And summa cum laude bestows the highest honor or praise on its recipient. 



The guidelines by which each level of academic honor is achieved differ at academic institutions. Each university or college typically outlines its expectations for each award.






The cum laude designation appears on the student's diploma, and some graduates may choose to highlight this honor on their resumes.



The criteria for earning Latin honors may include grade-point average (GPA), class ranking, the number of credit hours completed, and other academic achievements.



Students receiving Latin honors are typically recognized during graduation ceremonies, and the designation appears on the student's diploma. Students graduating with honors may also be allowed to wear some special symbol, like a specific sash or tassel on their mortarboard.


   Obtaining Cum Laude  

Some universities bestow Latin honors at certain GPA levels. Typically, a GPA of 3.5 or higher is required to receive the cum laude designation, with higher GPAs necessary for magna cum laude and summa cum laude. The designation is based only on an individual student's final GPA.



Other universities reserve Latin honors for a stated percentage of each graduating class. That means only a top percentage of a class may receive any honors, and smaller percentages of the student body may receive the magna cum laude and summa cum laude honors designations.



An outstanding GPA alone may not be enough to earn these honors at Ivy League universities and other highly competitive schools. Faculty committees also consider students' academic records and other academic achievements, like outstanding papers, published articles, and well-researched assignments. The professors will usually recommend honors for exceptional students.




What Is the Difference Between Cum Laude, Magna Cum Laude, and Summa Cum Laude?
While cum laude represents a distinguished level of achievement, magna cum laude is one level above. Meaning “with great praise” in Latin, magna cum laude differs from summa cum laude, which in turn means “highest praise” or “highest honor,” representing the highest level of academic distinction. These designations may be awarded on different factors such as GPA, class ranking, or outside academic achievements. 




What Is an Example of Cum Laude?
Consider the Ivy League school, the University of Pennsylvania, where students must have a GPA of 3.4 to graduate cum laude. By contrast, New York University awards students cum laude if students fall within the top 30% of the graduating class, and some colleges within the university have their own ranking system. Ultimately, these designations can vary widely across academic institutions and are evaluated across differing metrics.




Is It Hard to Earn a Cum Laude?
Most students need to have an above-average to high grade point to earn this designation.


   The Bottom Line  

"Cum laude" is a Latin word used in educational institutions as a mark of distinction, representing honorable excellence in coursework. The cum laude designation is often included in resumes by potential job candidates to demonstrate their success in academics and put themselves above the competition. Cum laude is determined by GPA or other academic achievements and is most often used in the United States.
What Is a Cup and Handle Pattern?  

A cup and handle price pattern on a security's price chart is a technical indicator that resembles a cup with a handle, where the cup is in the shape of a "u" and the handle has a slight downward drift.



The cup and handle is considered a bullish signal, with the right-hand side of the pattern typically experiencing lower trading volume. The pattern's formation may be as short as seven weeks or as long as 65 weeks.





Key Takeaways

A cup and handle is a technical chart pattern that resembles a cup and handle where the cup is in the shape of a "u" and the handle has a slight downward drift.A cup and handle is considered a bullish signal extending an uptrend, and it is used to spot opportunities to go long.Technical traders using this indicator should place a stop buy order slightly above the upper trendline of the handle part of the pattern.The pattern was first described by William J. O'Neil in his 1988 classic book on technical analysis, How to Make Money in Stocks.












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol


   What Does a Cup and Handle Pattern Tell You?  

American technician William J. O'Neil defined the cup and handle (C&H) pattern in his 1988 classic, How to Make Money in Stocks, adding technical requirements through a series of articles published in Investor’s Business Daily, which he founded in 1984. O'Neil included time frame measurements for each component, as well as a detailed description of the rounded lows that give the pattern its unique teacup appearance.



As a stock forming this pattern tests old highs, it is likely to incur selling pressure from investors who previously bought at those levels; selling pressure is likely to make price consolidate with a tendency toward a downtrend trend for a period of four days to four weeks, before advancing higher. A cup and handle is considered a bullish continuation pattern and is used to identify buying opportunities.



It is worth considering the following when detecting cup and handle patterns:



Length: Generally, cups with longer and more "U" shaped bottoms provide a stronger signal. Avoid cups with sharp "V" bottoms.
Depth: Ideally, the cup should not be overly deep. Avoid handles that are overly deep also, as handles should form in the top half of the cup pattern.
Volume: Volume should decrease as prices decline and remain lower than average in the base of the bowl; it should then increase when the stock begins to make its move higher, back up to test the previous high.



A retest of previous resistance is not required to touch or come within several ticks of the old high; however, the further the top of the handle is away from the highs, the more significant the breakout needs to be.


   How to Trade the Cup and Handle  

There are several ways to approach trading the cup and handle, but the most basic is to look for entering a long position. The image below depicts a classic cup and handle formation. Place a stop buy order slightly above the upper trend line of the handle. Order execution should only occur if the price breaks the pattern’s resistance. Traders may experience excess slippage and enter a false breakout using an aggressive entry.



Alternatively, wait for the price to close above the upper trend line of the handle, subsequently place a limit order slightly below the pattern’s breakout level, attempting to get an execution if the price retraces. There is a risk of missing the trade if the price continues to advance and does not pull back.












Image by Julie Bang Â© Investopedia 2020



A profit target is determined by measuring the distance between the bottom of the cup and the pattern’s breakout level and extending that distance upward from the breakout. For example, if the distance between the bottom of the cup and handle breakout level is 20 points, a profit target is placed 20 points above the pattern's handle. Stop-loss orders may be placed either below the handle or below the cup depending on the trader’s risk tolerance and market volatility.


   Example Trading the Cup and Handle  

Now let's consider a real-world historical example using Wynn Resorts, Limited (WYNN), which went public on the Nasdaq exchange near $13 in October 2002 and rose to $154 five years later. The subsequent decline ended within two points of the initial public offering (IPO) price, far exceeding O'Neil's requirement for a shallow cup high in the prior trend. The subsequent recovery wave reached the prior high in 2011, nearly 10 years after the first print.



The handle follows the classic pullback expectation, finding support at the 50% retracement in a rounded shape, and returns to the high for a second time 14 months later. The stock broke out in October 2013 and added 90 points in the following five months.












Image by Julie Bang Â© Investopedia 2020


   Limitations of the Cup and Handle Pattern  

Like all technical indicators, the cup and handle should be used in concert with other signals and indicators before making a trading decision. Specifically, with the cup and handle, certain limitations have been identified by practitioners. The first is that it can take some time for the pattern to fully form, which can lead to late decisions. While one month to one year is the typical timeframe for a cup and handle to form, it can also happen quite quickly or take several years to establish itself, making it ambiguous in some cases.



Another issue has to do with the depth of the cup part of the formation. Sometimes a shallower cup can be a signal, while other times a deep cup can produce a false signal. Sometimes the cup forms without the characteristic handle. Finally, one limitation shared across many technical patterns is that it can be unreliable in illiquid stocks.




What Does a Cup and Handle Pattern Indicate?
A cup and handle is a technical indicator where the price movement of a security resembles a “cup” followed by a downward trending price pattern. This drop, or “handle” is meant to signal a buying opportunity to go long on a security. When this part of the price formation is over, the security may reverse course and reach new highs. Typically, cup and handle patterns fall between seven weeks to over a year.




How Do You Find a Cup and Handle Pattern?
Consider a scenario where a stock has recently reached a high after significant momentum but has since corrected, falling almost 50%. At this point, an investor may purchase the stock, anticipating that it will bounce back to previous levels. The stock then rebounds, testing the previous high resistance levels, after which it falls into a sideways trend. In the final leg of the pattern, the stock exceeds these resistance levels, soaring 50% above the previous high. 




What Happens After a Cup and Handle Pattern Forms?
If a cup and handle forms and it is confirmed, the price should see a sharp increase in the short- to medium-term. If the pattern fails, this bull run would not be observed.




What is the Target for Cup and Handle Pattern?
The target with the cup and handle pattern is the height of the cup added to the breakout point of the handle. Generally, these patterns are bullish signals extending an uptrend.




Is a Cup and Handle Pattern Bullish?
As a general rule, cup and handle patterns are bullish price formations. The founder of the term, William O’Neil, identified four primary stages of this technical trading pattern. First, approximately one to three months before the “cup” pattern begins, a security will reach a new high in an uptrend. Second, the security will retrace, dropping no more than 50% of the previous high creating a rounding bottom. Third, the security will rebound to its previous high, but subsequently decline, forming the “handle” part of the formation. Finally, the security breaks out again, surpassing its highs that are equal to the depth of the cup’s low point.
What Is Currency?  

Currency is a medium of exchange for goods and services. In short, it's money, in the form of paper and coins, usually issued by a government and generally accepted at its face value as a method of payment.



Currency is the primary medium of exchange in the modern world, having long ago replaced bartering as a means of trading goods and services.



In the 21st century, a new form of currency has entered the vocabulary and realm of exchange: the virtual currency, also known as cryptocurrency. Virtual currencies, such as Bitcoin and Ethereum, have no physical form or government backing in the United States. They are traded and stored electronically.





Key Takeaways

Currency is a generally accepted form of payment usually issued by a government and circulated within its jurisdiction.The value of any currency fluctuates constantly in relation to other currencies.Currency is a tangible form of money, which is an intangible system of value.Many countries accept the U.S. dollar for payment, while others peg their currency value directly to the U.S. dollar.Cryptocurrency is a 21st century innovation and exists only electronically.


   Understanding Currency  

Currency in some form has been in use for at least 3,000 years. At one time only in the form of coins, currency proved to be crucial to facilitating trade across continents.



A key characteristic of modern currency is that it is worthless in itself. That is, bills are pieces of paper rather than coins made of gold, silver, or bronze.



The concept of using paper as a currency may have been developed in China as early as 1000 BC, but the acceptance of a piece of paper in return for something of real value took a long time to catch on. Modern currencies are issued on paper in various denominations, with fractional issues in the form of coins.


   Money vs. Currency  

The terms money and currency are often thought to mean the same thing. However, while related, they have different meanings.



Money is a broader term that refers to an intangible system of value that makes the exchange of goods and services possible, now and in the future. Currency is simply one, tangible form of money.



Money is used in a variety of ways, all related to its future use in some kind of transaction. For example, money is a store of value. This means that it has and maintains a certain value that supports ongoing exchanges. People know that the money they received today essentially will have the same value next week when they need to make a purchase or pay a bill.



Money is also referred to as a unit of account. That means it can be used to account for changes in the value of items over time. Businesses use money as a unit of account when they prepare a budget or give assets a value. Profits and losses are established and relied upon using money as a unit of account.



Money also has certain properties that allow for the smooth exchange of goods:



It is fungible, or, exchangeable, so that it doesn't need to be re-valued for every transaction.
It is durable so that it lasts for many exchanges over time.
It is convenient to carry and divide.
It is recognizable so that people can trust it and confidently complete their exchanges of goods and services.
The supply of money should be stable so that its value is reliable.



Understanding what money is clarifies the meaning of currency. It's a form of money used every day by people all over the world. Checks are another form of money (known as money substitutes). Cigarettes have even been a form of money, as they were for soldiers during the Second World War.






The Bureau of Engraving and Printing is responsible for printing America's paper currency. Its parent agency is the U.S. Dept. of the Treasury. The U.S. Mint, founded in 1792, is "the nation’s sole manufacturer of legal tender coinage and is responsible for producing circulating coinage for the nation to conduct its trade and commerce."


   Types of Currency  

The United States Mint defines currency as money in the form of paper and coins that's used as a medium of exchange. Currencies are created and distributed by individual countries around the world.



U.S. currency in paper form is issued by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing as $1, $2, $5, $10, $20, $50, and $100 bills. The $500, $1,000, $5,000, and $10,000 bills are no longer issued but those still in circulation are redeemable at full face value. Currency issued in 1861 or earlier is no longer valid and would not be redeemable at full face value.



U.S. currency in the form of coins is issued by the Mint in denominations of 1¢, 5¢, 10¢, 25¢, 50¢, and $1.



There are over 200 national currencies currently in circulation. Including the U.S., 42 countries either use the U.S. dollar or peg their currencies directly to the dollar. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) the dollar makes up 58.8% of the foreign exchange reserves.



Most countries issue their own currencies. For example, Switzerland's official currency is the Swiss franc, and Japan's is the yen. An exception is the euro, which has been adopted by most countries that are members of the European Union.



Some countries accept the U.S. dollar as legal tender in addition to their own currencies, like the Bahamas, Zimbabwe, and Panama. For some time after the founding of the U.S. Mint in 1792, Americans continued to use Spanish coins because they were heavier and presumably felt more valuable.



There are also branded currencies, like airline and credit card points and Disney Dollars. These are issued by companies and are used only to pay for the products and services to which they are tied.


   Currency Trading  

The exchange rate is the current value of any currency relative to another currency. As a result, rates are quoted for currency pairs, such as the EUR/USD (euro to U.S. dollar). Exchange rates fluctuate constantly in response to economic and political events.



These fluctuations create the market for currency trading. The foreign exchange market where these trades are conducted is one of the world's largest markets, based on sheer volume. All trades are in large volumes, with a standard minimum lot of 100,000. Most currency traders are professionals investing for themselves or for institutional clients that include banks and large corporations.



The foreign exchange market has no physical address. Trading is entirely electronic and goes on 24 hours a day to accommodate traders in every time zone.



For the rest of us, currency exchange typically is done at an airport kiosk or a bank before we go on a trip or while traveling.



Consumer advocates say that travelers get the best value by exchanging cash at a bank or at an in-network ATM. Other options may have higher fees and unattractive exchange rates.




What Does Currency Mean?
The term currency refers to the tangible form of money that is paper bills and coins. It's used as a medium of exchange that's accepted at face value for products and services as well as for savings and the payment of debt.




What's an Example of Currency?
One example of currency is any of the U.S. paper bills you may have on hand. It is any of the coins the U.S. issues, such as the penny, nickel, and quarter. Currency can also be the paper bills and coins issued by the governments of other countries across the globe.




What's the Difference Between Money and Currency?
Money is an intangible system of value that provides the means for the ongoing exchange of goods and services in a society. Money has taken many forms since it overtook the system of bartering. Currency is a tangible form of it. So, instead of, say, bartering agricultural produce for the clothing you may need, you can use currency (paper notes and coins) to obtain it.
What is a Currency Carry Trade?  

A currency carry trade is a strategy whereby a high-yielding currency funds the trade with a low-yielding currency. A trader using this strategy attempts to capture the difference between the rates, which can often be substantial, depending on the amount of leverage used.



The carry trade is one of the most popular trading strategies in the forex market. The most popular carry trades have involved buying currency pairs like the Australian dollar/Japanese yen and New Zealand dollar/Japanese yen because the interest rate spreads of these currency pairs have been quite high. The first step in putting together a carry trade is to find out which currency offers a high yield and which one offers a low yield.


   The Basics of a Currency Carry Trade  

The currency carry trade is one of the most popular trading strategies in the currency market. Consider it akin to the motto "buy low, sell high." The best way to first implement a carry trade is to determine which currency offers a high yield and which offers a lower one. 



The most popular carry trades involve buying currency pairs like the AUD/JPY and the NZD/JPY, since these have interest rate spreads that are very high.  


  Mechanics of the Carry Trade  

As for the mechanics, a trader stands to make a profit of the difference in the interest rates of the two countries as long as the exchange rate between the currencies does not change. Many professional traders use this trade because the gains can become very large when leverage is taken into consideration. If the trader in our example uses a common leverage factor of 10:1, he can stand to make a profit of 10 times the interest rate difference.



The funding currency is the currency that is exchanged in a currency carry trade transaction. A funding currency typically has a low interest rate. Investors borrow the funding currency and take short positions in the asset currency, which has a higher interest rate The central banks of funding currency countries such as the Bank of Japan (BoJ) and the U.S. Federal Reserve often engaged in aggressive monetary stimulus which results in low-interest rates. These banks will use monetary policy to lower interest rates to kick-start growth during a time of recession. As the rates drop, speculators borrow the money and hope to unwind their short positions before the rates increase. 


  When to Get in a Carry Trade, When to Get Out  

The best time to get into a carry trade is when central banks are raising (or thinking about) interest rates. Many people are jumping onto the carry trade bandwagon and pushing up the value of the currency pair. Similarly, these trades work well during times of low volatility since traders are willing to take on more risk. As long as the currency's value doesn't fall — even if it doesn't move much, or at all — traders will still be able to get paid. 



But a period of interest rate reduction won't offer big rewards in carry trades for traders. That shift in monetary policy also means a shift in currency values. When rates are dropping, demand for the currency also tends to dwindle, and selling off the currency becomes difficult. Basically, in order for the carry trade to result in a profit, there needs to be no movement or some degree of appreciation. 





Key Takeaways

A currency carry trade is a strategy whereby a high-yielding currency funds the trade with a low-yielding currency. A trader using this strategy attempts to capture the difference between the rates, which can often be substantial, depending on the amount of leverage used. The carry trade is one of the most popular trading strategies in the forex market.


   Currency Carry Trade Example  

As an example of a currency carry trade, assume that a trader notices that rates in Japan are 0.5 percent, while they are 4 percent in the United States. This means the trader expects to profit 3.5 percent, which is the difference between the two rates. The first step is to borrow yen and convert them into dollars. The second step is to invest those dollars into a security paying the U.S. rate. Assume the current exchange rate is 115 yen per dollar and the trader borrows 50 million yen. Once converted, the amount that he would have is:



           U.S. dollars = 50 million yen ÷ 115 = $434,782.61



After a year invested at the 4 percent U.S. rate, the trader has:



           Ending balance = $434,782.61 x 1.04 = $452,173.91



Now, the trader owes the 50 million yen principal plus 0.5 percent interest for a total of:



          Amount owed = 50 million yen x 1.005 = 50.25 million yen



If the exchange rate stays the same over the course of the year and ends at 115, the amount owed in U.S. dollars is:



         Amount owed = 50.25 million yen ÷ 115 = $436,956.52



The trader profits on the difference between the ending U.S. dollar balance and the amount owed, which is:



         Profit = $452,173.91 - $436,956.52 = $15,217.39



Notice that this profit is exactly the expected amount: $15,217.39 ÷ $434,782.62 = 3.5%



If the exchange rate moves against the yen, the trader would profit more. If the yen gets stronger, the trader will earn less than 3.5 percent or may even experience a loss.


   Risks and Limitations of Carry Trades  

The big risk in a carry trade is the uncertainty of exchange rates. Using the example above, if the U.S. dollar were to fall in value relative to the Japanese yen, the trader runs the risk of losing money. Also, these transactions are generally done with a lot of leverage, so a small movement in exchange rates can result in huge losses unless the position is hedged appropriately.



An effective carry trade strategy does not simply involve going long a currency with the highest yield and shorting a currency with the lowest yield. While the current level of the interest rate is important, what is even more important is the future direction of interest rates. For example, the U.S. dollar could appreciate against the Australian dollar if the U.S. central bank raises interest rates at a time when the Australian central bank is finished tightening its rates.



Also, carry trades only work when the markets are complacent or optimistic. Uncertainty, concern, and fear can cause investors to unwind their carry trades. The 45% sell-off in currency pairs such as the AUD/JPY and NZD/JPY in 2008 was triggered by the Subprime turned Global Financial Crisis. Since carry trades are often leveraged investments, the actual losses were probably much greater.
What Is a Currency Exchange?  

A currency exchange is a licensed business that allows customers to exchange one currency for another. Currency exchange of physical money (coins and paper bills) is usually done over the counter at a teller station, which can be found in various places such as airports, banks, hotels, and resorts. Currency exchanges make money by charging a nominal fee and through the bid-ask spread in a currency.



Also known as a "bureau de change" or "casa de cambio," a currency exchange should not be confused with the foreign exchange (forex) market where traders and financial institutions transact in currencies.





Key Takeaways

Currency exchanges are businesses that allow customers to swap one currency for another.Currency exchanges can be found in physical locations, such as in banks or airports, but are increasingly common online.Currency exchange fees vary so much that credit card fees may be less than the fees paid through adjusted exchange rates.


   How a Currency Exchange Works  

Currency exchange businesses, both physical and online, allow you to exchange one country's currency for another by executing buy and sell transactions. For example, if you have U.S. dollars and you want to exchange them for Australian dollars, you would bring your U.S. dollars (or bank card) to the currency exchange store and buy Australian dollars with them. The amount you would be able to purchase would be dependent on the international spot rate, which is basically a daily changing value set by a network of banks that trade currencies.



The currency exchange store will modify the rate by a certain percentage to ensure that it makes a profit on the transaction. For example, suppose the spot rate for exchanging U.S. dollars into Australian dollars is listed as 1.2500 for the day. This means that for each U.S. dollar spent, you can buy 1.25 Australian dollars if traded at the spot rate. But the currency exchange store may modify this rate to 1.20, meaning you can buy 1.20 Australian dollars for 1 U.S. dollar. With this hypothetical rate change, their fee would effectively be 5 cents on the dollar.



Because the transaction is not conducted at the spot rate, and depends on the profit that the exchange wants to make, consumers may find that it is less expensive to incur ATM or credit card fees at the foreign destination, rather than use exchange services ahead of time. Travelers are advised to estimate how much money they will spend on a trip and compare the amounts saved through typical transactions.






Currency convertibility is essential in a global economy and critical for international commerce and finance. A currency that is inconvertible poses big barriers to trade, foreign investment, and tourism.


   Where to Find a Currency Exchange  

Currency exchange businesses can be found in a variety of forms and venues. It may be a stand-alone, small business operating out of a single office, a larger chain of small exchange-service booths at airports, or a large international bank offering currency exchange services at its teller stations.



Airports are commonplace for currency exchanges, enabling travelers to purchase currency of their travel destination immediately before their departure or exchange any excess money back to their local currency upon their return. Because airports are seen as the last port of call, the rates at airport exchanges will, in general, be more expensive than those at a bank in the city of departure.















ICE International Currency Exchange at LAX.
Photo © 2015 Kayte Deioma, licensed to About.com



Going cashless is becoming more common as some banks offer cards that can load multiple currencies on them with little or no fees. In addition, offshore ATMs are a viable option for those banking with a global bank. For example, HSBC ATMs are prevalent in Europe, North and Latin America, Asia, the Middle East, and North Africa.



Currency exchange services can also be found through businesses that offer these services online. This may be offered as part of the services provided by a bank, forex broker, or other financial institution.






When traveling outside of your own country, watch for country-specific fees. For example, prior to July 2020, Cuba charged a 10% tax on tourists buying Cuban convertible peso (CUC) with U.S. dollars.


   Bid-Ask Spreads in the Retail Forex Market  

Currency exchanges earn their money by charging customers a fee for their services, but also by taking advantage of the bid-ask spread in the currency. The bid price is what the dealer is willing to pay for a currency, while the ask price is the rate at which a dealer will sell the same currency.



For example, Ellen is an American traveler visiting Europe. The cost of purchasing euros at the airport may be quoted as follows:



EUR 1 = USD 1.30 / 1.40



The higher price (USD 1.40) is the cost to buy each euro. Ellen wants to buy EUR 5,000, so she would have to pay the dealer USD 7,000.



Suppose also that the next traveler in line has just returned from her European vacation and wants to sell the euros that she has left over. Katelyn has EUR 5,000 to sell. She can sell the euros at the bid price of USD 1.30 (the lower price) and would receive USD 6,500 in exchange for her euros.



Because of the bid-ask spread, the kiosk dealer is able to make a profit of USD 500 from this transaction (the difference between USD 7,000 and USD 6,500).



When faced with a standard bid and ask price for a currency, the higher price is what you would pay to buy the currency and the lower price is what you would receive if you were to sell the currency.
What Is a Currency Peg?  

A currency peg is a policy in which a national government or central bank sets a fixed exchange rate for its currency with a foreign currency or a basket of currencies and stabilizes the exchange rate between countries.



The currency exchange rate is the value of a currency compared to another. While some currencies are free-floating and rates fluctuate based on supply and demand in the market, others are fixed and pegged to another currency.



Pegging provides long-term predictability of exchange rates for business planning and helps to promote economic stability.





Key Takeaways

A currency peg is a policy in which a national government sets a specific fixed exchange rate for its currency with a foreign currency or basket of currencies.A currency peg can reduce uncertainty, promote trade, and boost economies.An overly low currency peg keeps domestic living standards low, hurts foreign businesses, and creates trade tensions among countries.An artificially high currency peg contributes to the overconsumption of imports and often causes inflation when it collapses.As of 2022, 14 countries peg their currencies to the U.S. dollar.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah






   Understanding Currency Pegging  

The primary motivation for a currency peg is to encourage trade between countries by reducing foreign exchange risk. Countries commonly establish a currency peg with a stronger or more developed economy so that domestic companies can access broader markets with less risk.



The U.S. dollar, the euro, and gold have historically been popular choices. Currency pegs create stability between trading partners and can remain in place for decades. For example, the Hong Kong dollar has been pegged to the U.S. dollar since 1983.






Only realistic currency pegs aimed at reducing volatility can produce economic benefits. Setting a currency peg artificially high or low creates imbalances that ultimately harm all countries involved.


   Advantages of a Currency Peg  

Pegged currencies can expand trade and boost real incomes, particularly when currency fluctuations are relatively low and foresee no long-term changes. Without exchange rate risk and tariffs, individuals, businesses, and nations are free to benefit fully from specialization and exchange.



With fixed exchange rates and within a mutually beneficial economic framework, farmers may be able to effectively produce, technology firms may be able to expand research and development, and retailers will be able to source from efficient producers.



Pegging allows for long-term investments in other countries as fluctuating exchange rates are not disrupting supply chains and altering the value of investments.


   Disadvantages of a Currency Peg  

The central bank of a country with a currency peg must monitor and manage cash flow and avoid spikes in a currency's supply and demand. These spikes can require a central bank to hold large foreign exchange reserves to counter excessive buying or selling of its currency. Currency pegs affect forex trading by artificially stemming volatility.



When a currency is pegged at an excessively low exchange rate, domestic consumers will be deprived of the purchasing power to buy foreign goods. If the Chinese yuan is pegged too low against the U.S. dollar, Chinese consumers will have to pay more for imported food and oil, lowering their consumption and affecting their standard of living. The sellers, U.S. farmers, and Middle East oil producers, see a decrease in demand, and business loss and trade tensions may escalate among the countries.



If a currency is pegged at an overly high rate, a country may be unable to defend the peg over time. Domestic consumers may buy too many imports and drive up demand. Chronic trade deficits create downward pressure on the home currency, forcing the government to spend foreign exchange reserves to defend the peg. If government reserves are exhausted, the peg will collapse.



As a currency peg collapses, the country that set the peg high will find imports more expensive. Inflation will rise, and the nation may have difficulty paying its debts. The other country will find its exporters losing markets, and its investors losing money on foreign assets that are no longer worth as much in domestic currency. Major currency peg breakdowns include the Argentine peso to the U.S. dollar in 2002, the British pound to the German mark in 1992, and arguably the U.S. dollar to gold in 1971.





Pros

Expands trade and boosts real incomes
Makes long-term investments realistic
Reduces disruptions to supply chains
Minimizes changes to the value of investments



Cons

Affects forex trading by artificially stemming volatility
Erodes purchasing power when pegged too low
Creates trade deficits when pegged too high
Increases inflation when pegged too high





   Example of a Currency Peg  

Since 1986, the Saudi riyal has been pegged at a fixed rate of 3.75 to the USD. The Arab oil embargo of 1973, Saudi Arabia's response to the United State's involvement in the Arab-Israeli war, precipitated events that led to the currency peg.



The effects of the short-lived embargo devalued the U.S. Dollar and led to economic turmoil. The Nixon administration drafted a deal with the Saudi government to restore the USD to the super currency it once was. From this arrangement, the Saudi government enjoyed the use of U.S. military resources, an abundance of U.S. Treasury savings, and a booming economy saturated with the USD.



During the embargo, the riyal was supported by Special Drawing Rights (SDR), an international reserve asset created by the International Monetary Fund to supplement the official reserves of its member countries with freely usable currencies of IMF members to provide a country with liquidity.



Due to high inflation and the 1979 Energy Crisis, the riyal suffered a devaluation, leading the Saudi government to peg the riyal to the US Dollar. The currency peg restored stability and lowered inflation. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority (SAMA) credits the peg for supporting economic growth in its country and for stabilizing the cost of foreign trade.




Why Would a Country Peg Their Currency?
The most common reasons include encouraging trade between nations, reducing the risks associated with expanding into broader markets and stabilizing the economy.




Which Countries Have Currencies That Are Pegged to the USD?
Fourteen countries have currencies pegged to the USD and include Bahrain, Belize, Cuba, Djibouti, Hong Kong SAR, China, Jordan, Lebanon, Oman, Panama, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, and Eritrea.




How Many Currencies Are Pegged to the Euro?
Eleven currencies are pegged to the Euro (EUR), including the Croatian kuna and the Moroccan dirham.




What Is a Soft Peg?
A soft peg is an exchange rate policy where a government allows the exchange rate to be set by the market, but in some cases, especially if the exchange rate appears to move rapidly in one direction, the central bank will intervene in the market.


   The Bottom Line  

A currency peg is a nation's governmental policy whereby its exchange rate with another country is fixed. Most nations peg their currencies to promote trade and foreign investment and encourage stability.
What Is a Currency Swap?  

A currency swap, sometimes referred to as a cross-currency swap, involves the exchange of interest—and sometimes of principal—in one currency for the same in another currency. Interest payments are exchanged at fixed dates through the life of the contract. It is considered to be a foreign exchange transaction and is not required by law to be shown on a company's balance sheet.





Key Takeaways

A currency swap involves the exchange of interest—and sometimes of principal—in one currency for the same in another currency.Companies doing business abroad often use currency swaps to get more favorable loan rates in the local currency than if they borrowed money from a local bank.Considered to be a foreign exchange transaction, currency swaps are not required by law to be shown on a company's balance sheet.Interest rate variations for currency swaps include fixed rate to fixed rate, floating rate to floating rate, or fixed rate to floating rate.


   The Basics of Currency Swaps  

Currency swaps were originally done to get around exchange controls, governmental limitations on the purchase and/or sale of currencies. Although nations with weak and/or developing economies generally use foreign exchange controls to limit speculation against their currencies, most developed economies have eliminated controls nowadays.



So swaps are now done most commonly to hedge long-term investments and to change the interest rate exposure of the two parties. Companies doing business abroad often use currency swaps to get more favorable loan rates in the local currency than they could if they borrowed money from a bank in that country.






Currency swaps are important financial instruments used by banks, investors, and multinational corporations.


   How a Currency Swap Works  

In a currency swap, the parties agree in advance whether or not they will exchange the principal amounts of the two currencies at the beginning of the transaction. The two principal amounts create an implied exchange rate. For example, if a swap involves exchanging €10 million versus $12.5 million, that creates an implied EUR/USD exchange rate of 1.25. At maturity, the same two principal amounts must be exchanged, which creates exchange rate risk as the market may have moved far from 1.25 in the intervening years.



Pricing is usually expressed as London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), plus or minus a certain number of points, based on interest rate curves at inception and the credit risk of the two parties.






Due to recent scandals and questions around its validity as a benchmark rate, LIBOR is being phased out. According to the Federal Reserve and regulators in the UK, LIBOR will be phased out by June 30, 2023, and will be replaced by the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). As part of this phase-out, LIBOR one-week and two-month USD LIBOR rates will no longer be published after December 31, 2021.﻿﻿ 



A currency swap can be done in several ways. Many swaps use simply notional principal amounts, which means that the principal amounts are used to calculate the interest due and payable each period but is not exchanged.



If there is a full exchange of principal when the deal is initiated, the exchange is reversed at the maturity date. Currency swap maturities are negotiable for at least 10 years, making them a very flexible method of foreign exchange. Interest rates can be fixed or floating.






India and Japan signed a bilateral currency swap agreement worth $75 billion in October 2018 to bring stability to forex and capital markets in India.


   Exchange of Interest Rates in Currency Swaps  

There are three variations on the exchange of interest rates: fixed rate to fixed rate; floating rate to floating rate; or fixed rate to floating rate. This means that in a swap between euros and dollars, a party that has an initial obligation to pay a fixed interest rate on a euro loan can exchange that for a fixed interest rate in dollars or for a floating rate in dollars. Alternatively, a party whose euro loan is at a floating interest rate can exchange that for either a floating or a fixed rate in dollars. A swap of two floating rates is sometimes called a basis swap.



Interest rate payments are usually calculated quarterly and exchanged semi-annually, although swaps can be structured as needed. Interest payments are generally not netted because they are in different currencies.
What Is the Current Account?  

The current account records a nation's transactions with the rest of the world—specifically its net trade in goods and services, its net earnings on cross-border investments, and its net transfer payments—over a defined period, such as a year or a quarter. The Q4 2021 current account deficit of the U.S. was negative $224.8 billion.





Key Takeaways

The current account represents a country's imports and exports of goods and services, payments made to foreign investors, and transfers such as foreign aid.The current account may be positive (a surplus) or negative (a deficit); positive means the country is a net exporter and negative means it is a net importer of goods and services.A country's current account balance, whether positive or negative, will be equal but opposite to its capital account balance.The U.S. has a significant deficit in its current account.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding the Current Account  

The current account is one-half of the balance of payments, the other half being the capital account. While the capital account measures cross-border investments in financial instruments and changes in central bank reserves, the current account measures imports and exports of goods and services, payments to foreign holders of a country's investments, payments received from investments abroad, and transfers such as foreign aid and remittances.



A country's current account balance may be positive (a surplus) or negative (a deficit); in either case, the country's capital account balance will register an equal and opposite amount. Exports are recorded as credits in the balance of payments, while imports are recorded as debits.



A positive current account balance indicates that the nation is a net lender to the rest of the world, while a negative current account balance indicates that it is a net borrower. A current account surplus increases a nation's net foreign assets by the amount of the surplus, while a current account deficit decreases it by the amount of the deficit.






In keeping with double-entry bookkeeping, any credit in the current account (such as an export) will have a corresponding debit recorded in the capital account. The item received by the nation is recorded as a debit while the item given up in the transaction is recorded as a credit.


   Special Considerations  

Since the trade balance (exports minus imports) is generally the biggest determinant of the current account surplus or deficit, the current account balance often displays a cyclical trend. During a strong economic expansion, import volumes typically surge; if exports are unable to grow at the same rate, the current account deficit will widen. Conversely, during a recession, the current account deficit will shrink if imports decline and exports increase to stronger economies.



The exchange rate exerts a significant influence on the trade balance, and by extension, on the current account. An overvalued currency makes imports cheaper and exports less competitive, thereby widening the current account deficit or narrowing the surplus. An undervalued currency, on the other hand, boosts exports and makes imports more expensive, thus increasing the current account surplus or narrowing the deficit.





Current Account Balances Worldwide



Nations with chronic current account deficits often come under increased investor scrutiny during periods of heightened uncertainty. The currencies of such nations often come under speculative attack during such times.



This creates a vicious circle in which foreign exchange reserves are depleted to support the domestic currency, and this foreign exchange reserve depletion—combined with a deteriorating trade balance—puts further pressure on the currency. Embattled nations are often forced to take stringent measures to support the currency, such as raising interest rates and curbing currency outflows.


   Current Account vs. Capital Account  

Some countries will split the capital account into two top-level divisions (i.e., the financial account and the capital account). In this context, the financial account measures an increase or decrease in international ownership of assets, while the capital account measures financial transactions that do not affect income, production, or savings.




What Are Some Factors That Can Impact the Current Account?
A country's trade balance (exports minus imports) is generally the biggest determinant of whether the current account is in a surplus or deficit. During a strong economic expansion, import volumes typically surge and, if exports are unable to grow at the same rate, the current account will be in deficit. Conversely, during a recession, the current account will show a surplus if imports decline and exports increase to stronger economies. Exchange rates are another variable that can impact the current account.




What Is a Capital Account?
The capital account is one part of a country's balance of payments and provides a summary of the capital expenditure and income for a country. Sometimes the capital account is called the financial account, with a separate, usually very small, capital account listed separately. The summary of transactions consists of imports and exports of goods, services, capital, and transfer payments such as foreign aid and remittances. Essentially, the capital account measures the changes in national ownership of assets, whereas the current account measures the country's net income.




What Is a Balance of Payments?
A country's balance of payments (BOP) is a statement of all transactions made between entities in that country and the rest of the world over a defined period, such as a quarter or a year. It includes both the current account and capital account. In theory, the sum of all transactions recorded in the balance of payments should be zero; however, exchange rate fluctuations and differences in accounting practices may hinder this in practice.
What Is a Current Account Deficit?  

The current account deficit is a measurement of a country’s trade where the value of the goods and services it imports exceeds the value of the products it exports. The current account includes net income, such as interest and dividends, and transfers, such as foreign aid, although these components make up only a small percentage of the total current account. The current account represents a country’s foreign transactions and, like the capital account, is a component of a country’s balance of payments (BOP).












Investopedia / Michela Buttignol





Key Takeaways

A current account deficit indicates that a country is importing more than it is exporting.Emerging economies often run surpluses, and developed countries tend to run deficits.A current account deficit is not always detrimental to a nation's economy—external debt may be used to finance lucrative investments.


   Understanding a Current Account Deficit  

A country can reduce its existing debt by increasing the value of its exports relative to the value of imports. It can place restrictions on imports, such as tariffs or quotas, or it can emphasize policies that promote export, such as import substitution, industrialization, or policies that improve domestic companies' global competitiveness. The country can also use monetary policy to improve the domestic currency’s valuation relative to other currencies through devaluation, which reduces the country’s export costs. 



While an existing deficit can imply that a country is spending beyond its means, having a current account deficit is not inherently disadvantageous. If a country uses external debt to finance investments that have higher returns than the interest rate on the debt, the country can remain solvent while running a current account deficit. If a country is unlikely to cover current debt levels with future revenue streams, however, it may become insolvent.


   Deficits in Developed and Emerging Economies  

A current account deficit represents negative net sales abroad. Developed countries, such as the United States, often run deficits while emerging economies often run current account surpluses. Impoverished countries tend to run current account debt.


   Real World Example of Current Account Deficits  

Fluctuations in a country's current account are largely dependent on market forces. Even countries that purposefully run deficits have volatility in the deficit. The United Kingdom, for example, saw a decrease in its existing deficit after the Brexit vote results in 2016.



The United Kingdom has traditionally run a deficit because it is a country that uses high levels of debt to finance excessive imports. A large portion of the country's exports are commodities, and declining commodity prices have resulted in lower earnings for domestic companies. This reduction translates to less income flowing back into the United Kingdom, increasing its current account deficit.



However, after the British pound declined in value as a result of the Brexit vote that was held on June 23, 2016, the weaker pound decreased the nation's existing debt. This decrease occurred because overseas dollar earnings were higher for domestic commodity companies, resulting in more cash inflows to the country.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020
What Are Current Assets?  

The Current Assets account is a balance sheet line item listed under the Assets section, which accounts for all company-owned assets that can be converted to cash within one year. Assets whose value is recorded in the Current Assets account are considered current assets.



Current assets include cash, cash equivalents, accounts receivable, stock inventory, marketable securities, pre-paid liabilities, and other liquid assets. Current Assets may also be called Current Accounts.





Key Takeaways:

Current Assets is an account listed on a balance sheet that shows the value of the assets owned by a company that can be converted to cash through liquidation, use, or sales within one year.Current assets include cash, cash equivalents, accounts receivable, stock inventory, marketable securities, pre-paid liabilities, and other liquid assets.The Current Assets account is important because it demonstrates a company's short-term liquidity and ability to pay its short-term obligations.












Investopedia / Matthew Collins


   Understanding Current Assets  

Publicly-owned companies must adhere to generally accepted accounting principles and reporting procedures. Following these principles and practices, financial statements must be generated with specific line items that create transparency for interested parties. One of these statements is the balance sheet, which lists a company's assets, liabilities, and shareholders' equity.



Current Assets is always the first account listed in a company's balance sheet under the Assets section. It is comprised of sub-accounts that make up the Current Assets account. For example, Apple, Inc. lists several sub-accountss under Current Assets that combine to make up total current assets, which is the value of all Current Assets sub-accounts.













This section is important for investors because it shows the company's short-term liquidity. According to Apple's balance sheet, it had $135 million in the Current Assets account it could convert to cash within one year. This short-term liquidity is vital—if Apple were to experience issues paying its short-term obligations, it could liquidate these assets to help cover these debts.



Depending on the nature of the business and the products it markets, current assets can range from barrels of crude oil, fabricated goods, inventory for works in progress, raw materials, or foreign currency.


   Types of Current Assets  

Many assets can be considered current by different businesses throughout all industries. In general, most industries group their current assets into these sub-accounts; however, you might see others:



Cash and Cash EquivalentsMarketable SecuritiesAccounts ReceivableInventoryPrepaid Liabilities/ExpensesOther Short-Term Investments



On the balance sheet, the Current Asset sub-accounts are normally displayed in order of current asset liquidity. The assets most easily converted into cash are ranked higher by the finance division or accounting firm that prepared the report. The order in which these accounts appear might differ because each business can account for the included assets differently.


  Cash and Cash Equivalents  

By definition, assets in the Current Assets account are cash or can be quickly converted to cash. Cash equivalents are certificates of deposit, money market funds, short-term government bonds, and treasury bills.



To qualify as current assets, these items must not have any restrictions that inhibit their short-term liquidity.


  Marketable Securities  

Marketable Securities is the account where the total value of liquid investments that can be quickly converted to cash without reducing their market value is entered. For example, if shares of a company trade in very low volumes, it may not be possible to convert them to cash without impacting their market value. These shares would not be considered liquid and, therefore, would not have their value entered into the Current Assets account.


  Accounts Receivable  

Accounts Receivable—the value of all money due to a company for goods or services delivered or used but not yet paid for by customers—is entered in Current Assets as long as the accounts can be expected to be paid within a year. If a business makes sales by offering longer credit terms to its customers, some of its receivables may not be included in the Current Assets account.






If an account is never collected, it is entered as a bad debt expense and not included in the Current Assets account.



It is also possible that some receivables are not expected to be collected on. This consideration is reflected in the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts, a sub-account whose value is subtracted from the Accounts Receivable account.


  Inventory  

Inventory—which represents raw materials, components, and finished products—is included in the Current Assets account. However, different accounting methods can adjust inventory; at times, it may not be as liquid as other qualified current assets depending on the product and the industry sector.



For example, there is little or no guarantee that a dozen units of high-cost heavy earth-moving equipment may be sold over the next year, but there is a relatively high chance of a successful sale of a thousand umbrellas in the coming rainy season.



For these reasons, you should view inventory with a skeptical eye. Read through the company reports or browse the internet to determine what is going on with a company's inventory—it might also just be standard practice or a trend in the industry for inventory to be at specific levels.



Inventory also blocks working capital. If demand shifts unexpectedly—which is more common in some industries than others—inventory can become backlogged.


  Prepaid Liabilities  

Prepaid expenses—which represent advance payments made by a company for goods and services to be received in the future—are considered current assets. Although they cannot be converted into cash, they are payments already made. These payments free up capital for other uses. Prepaid expenses might include payments to insurance companies or contractors.


  Other Short-Term Investments  

Many companies categorize liquid investments into the Marketable Securities account, but some can be accounted for in the Other Short-Term Investments account. An example would be excess funds invested in a short-term security, putting the funds to work but keeping the option of accessing them if needed.


   Current Assets vs. Non-Current Assets  

If current assets are those which can be converted to cash within one year, non-current assets are those which cannot be converted within one year. On a balance sheet, you might find some of the same asset accounts under Current Assets and Non-Current Assets. This is because those same types of assets might be tied up for a longer period, such as a marketable security that cannot be sold in one year's time or which would be sold for much less than their purchase price.



Property, plants, buildings, facilities, equipment, and other illiquid investments are all examples of non-current assets because they can take a significant amount of time to sell. Non-current assets are also valued at their purchase price because they are held for longer times and depreciate. Current assets are valued at fair market value and don't depreciate.


   Formula for Current Assets  

The total current assets formulation is a simple summation of all the assets that can be converted to cash within one year. If a current asset subcategory is not listed in this formula, you can add it to Other Liquid Assets. You gather the current asset information from a balance sheet and add it. Typically, it is already totaled up for you on the balance sheet under Total Current Assets:


















Current Assets = C + CE + I + AR + MS + PE + OLA
















where:
















C = Cash
















CE = Cash Equivalents
















I = Inventory
















AR = Accounts Receivable
















MS = Marketable Securities
















PE = Prepaid Expenses
















OLA = Other Liquid Assets







\begin{aligned} &\text{Current Assets = C + CE + I + AR + MS + PE + OLA}\\ &\textbf{where:}\\ &\text{C = Cash}\\ &\text{CE = Cash Equivalents}\\ &\text{I = Inventory}\\ &\text{AR = Accounts Receivable}\\ &\text{MS = Marketable Securities}\\ &\text{PE = Prepaid Expenses}\\ &\text{OLA = Other Liquid Assets}\\ \end{aligned}


​Current Assets = C + CE + I + AR + MS + PE + OLAwhere:C = CashCE = Cash EquivalentsI = InventoryAR = Accounts ReceivableMS = Marketable SecuritiesPE = Prepaid ExpensesOLA = Other Liquid Assets​


   Real-World Example  

Leading retailer Walmart Inc.'s (WMT) Total Current Assets for the 2021 fiscal year was $90 billion:



Cash and Short-Term Investments was $17.7 billionTotal Accounts Receivable was $6.52 billionInventory was $45 billionOther Current Assets was $21 billion. 



In comparison, for FY 2021, Microsoft Corp.'s (MSFT) Total Current Assets was $184.4 billion:



Cash and Short-Term Investments was $130.3 billionTotal Accounts Receivable was $38 billionInventory was $2.6 billionOther Current Assets was $13.4 billion.


   How Do Investors Use Current Assets?  

The total current assets figure is of prime importance to company management regarding the daily operations of a business. As payments toward bills and loans become due, management must have the necessary cash. The dollar value represented by the total current assets figure reflects the company’s cash and liquidity position. It allows management to reallocate and liquidate assets—if necessary—to continue business operations.



Creditors and investors keep a close eye on the Current Assets account to assess whether a business is capable of paying its obligations. Many use a variety of liquidity ratios, representing a class of financial metrics used to determine a debtor's ability to pay off current debt obligations without raising additional funds.


   Financial Ratios That Use Current Assets  

The following ratios are commonly used to measure a company’s liquidity position. Each ratio uses different Current Assets sub-accounts compared against the value of a company's Current Liabilities account:



The current ratio measures a company's ability to pay short-term obligations and considers a company's Total Current Assets relative to the Current Liabilities account—the value of debts that come due within one year.
The quick ratio measures a company's ability to meet its short-term obligations with its most liquid assets. It divides the value of the Cash and Cash Equivalents account, the Marketable Securities account, and the Accounts Receivable account by the value of the Current Liabilities account. Inventory is excluded from this calculation because inventory liquidity can vary.
The cash ratio measures the ability of a company to pay off all of its short-term liabilities immediately—using cash—and is calculated by dividing the value of the Cash and Cash Equivalents account by the value of the Current Liabilities account.



The cash ratio is the most conservative as it considers only cash and cash equivalents. The current ratio is the most accommodating and includes various assets from the Current Assets account. These multiple measures assess the company’s ability to pay outstanding debts and cover liabilities and expenses without liquidating its fixed assets.




What Are Current and Non-Current Assets?
Current Assets is an account where assets that can be converted into cash within one fiscal year or operating cycle are entered. Non-Current Assets is an account where assets that cannot be quickly converted into cash—often selling for less than the purchase price—are entered.




What are Some Examples of Current Assets?
The Current Assets account can be found on a firm's balance sheet. Common examples of Current Assets accounts include:The Cash and Cash Equivalents account: cash accounts, money markets, and certificates of deposit (CDs).The Marketable Securities account: these could be equity (stocks) or debt securities (bonds) listed on exchanges and sold through a broker.The Accounts Receivable account: this is money owed to the company for selling their products and services to their customers The Inventory account: goods produced and ready for sale or raw materials.The Prepaid Expenses account: goods or services paid for to be received in the near future.




What Are 10 Current Assets?
Current assets generally fall under one of six sub-accounts in the Current Assets account: Cash and Cash Equivalents, Inventory, Accounts Receivable, Marketable Securities, Prepaid Expenses, and Other Liquid Assets. However, other current asset accounts are specific to industries and businesses, such as Non-Trade Receivables, Restricted Cash, Net Receivables, or Current Deferred Assets.




What Are 3 Types of Current Assets?
Of the many types of Current Assets accounts, three are Cash and Cash Equivalents, Marketable Securities, and Prepaid Expenses.


   The Bottom Line  

Current assets are any asset a company can convert to cash within a short time, usually one year. These assets are listed in the Current Assets account on a publicly traded company's balance sheet.



The assets considered current vary by industry, but generally, they fall into these sub-accounts: Cash and Cash Equivalents, Marketable Securities, Accounts Receivable, Inventory, and Other Liquid Assets.
What Are Current Liabilities?  

Current liabilities are a company’s short-term financial obligations that are due within one year or within a normal operating cycle. An operating cycle, also referred to as the cash conversion cycle, is the time it takes a company to purchase inventory and convert it to cash from sales. An example of a current liability is money owed to suppliers in the form of accounts payable.





Key Takeaways

Current liabilities are a company’s short-term financial obligations that are due within one year or within a normal operating cycle.Current liabilities are typically settled using current assets, which are assets that are used up within one year.Examples of current liabilities include accounts payable, short-term debt, dividends, and notes payable as well as income taxes owed.The analysis of current liabilities is important to investors and creditors. This can give a picture of a company’s financial solvency and management of its current liabilities.












Sydney Saporito / Investopedia


   Understanding Current Liabilities  

Current liabilities are typically settled using current assets, which are assets that are used up within one year. Current assets include cash or accounts receivable, which is money owed by customers for sales. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities is important in determining a company’s ongoing ability to pay its debts as they are due.



Accounts payable is typically one of the largest current liability accounts on a company’s financial statements, and it represents unpaid supplier invoices. Companies try to match payment dates so that their accounts receivable are collected before the accounts payable are due to suppliers.



For example, a company might have 60-day terms for money owed to their supplier, which results in requiring their customers to pay within a 30-day term. Current liabilities can also be settled by creating a new current liability, such as a new short-term debt obligation.



Below is a list of the most common current liabilities that are found on the balance sheet:



Accounts payable
Short-term debt such as bank loans or commercial paper issued to fund operations
Dividends payable
Notes payable—the principal portion of outstanding debt
The current portion of deferred revenue, such as prepayments by customers for work not yet completed or earned
Current maturities of long-term debt
Interest payable on outstanding debts, including long-term obligations
Income taxes owed within the next year



Sometimes, companies use an account called other current liabilities as a catch-all line item on their balance sheets to include all other liabilities due within a year that are not classified elsewhere. Current liability accounts can vary by industry or according to various government regulations.



Analysts and creditors often use the current ratio. The current ratio measures a company’s ability to pay its short-term financial debts or obligations. The ratio, which is calculated by dividing current assets by current liabilities, shows how well a company manages its balance sheet to pay off its short-term debts and payables. It shows investors and analysts whether a company has enough current assets on its balance sheet to satisfy or pay off its current debt and other payables.



The quick ratio is the same formula as the current ratio, except that it subtracts the value of total inventories beforehand. The quick ratio is a more conservative measure for liquidity since it only includes the current assets that can quickly be converted to cash to pay off current liabilities.



A number higher than one is ideal for both the current and quick ratios, since it demonstrates that there are more current assets to pay current short-term debts. However, if the number is too high, it could mean the company is not leveraging its assets as well as it otherwise could be.






Although the current and quick ratios show how well a company converts its current assets to pay current liabilities, it’s critical to compare the ratios to companies within the same industry.



The analysis of current liabilities is important to investors and creditors. Banks, for example, want to know before extending credit whether a company is collecting—or getting paid—for its accounts receivable in a timely manner. On the other hand, on-time payment of the company’s payables is important as well. Both the current and quick ratios help with the analysis of a company’s financial solvency and management of its current liabilities.


   Accounting for Current Liabilities  

When a company determines that it received an economic benefit that must be paid within a year, it must immediately record a credit entry for a current liability. Depending on the nature of the received benefit, the company’s accountants classify it as either an asset or expense, which will receive the debit entry.



For example, a large car manufacturer receives a shipment of exhaust systems from its vendors, to whom it must pay $10 million within the next 90 days. Because these materials are not immediately placed into production, the company’s accountants record a credit entry to accounts payable and a debit entry to inventory, an asset account, for $10 million. When the company pays its balance due to suppliers, it debits accounts payable and credits cash for $10 million.



Suppose a company receives tax preparation services from its external auditor, to whom it must pay $1 million within the next 60 days. The company’s accountants record a $1 million debit entry to the audit expense account and a $1 million credit entry to the other current liabilities account. When a payment of $1 million is made, the company’s accountant makes a $1 million debit entry to the other current liabilities account and a $1 million credit to the cash account.


   Example of Current Liabilities  

Below is a current liabilities example using the consolidated balance sheet of Macy’s Inc. (M) from the company’s 10-Q report reported on Aug. 3, 2019.



We can see the company had $6 million in short-term debt for the period.
Accounts payable was broken up into two parts: merchandise payables totaling $1.674 billion, and other accounts payable and accrued liabilities totaling $2.739 billion.
Macy’s had $20 million in taxes payable.
Total liabilities for August 2019 were $4.439 billion, which was nearly unchanged compared to the $4.481 billion for the same accounting period from one year earlier.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020




Why do investors care about current liabilities?
The analysis of current liabilities is important to investors and creditors. For example, banks want to know before extending credit whether a company is collecting—or getting paid—for its accounts receivable in a timely manner. On the other hand, on-time payment of the company’s payables is important as well. Both the current and quick ratios help with the analysis of a company’s financial solvency and management of its current liabilities.




What are some current liabilities listed on a balance sheet?
The most common current liabilities found on the balance sheet include accounts payable; short-term debt such as bank loans or commercial paper issued to fund operations; dividends payable; notes payable—the principal portion of outstanding debt; the current portion of deferred revenue, such as prepayments by customers for work not yet completed or earned; current maturities of long-term debt; interest payable on outstanding debts, including long-term obligations; and income taxes owed within the next year. Sometimes, companies use an account called other current liabilities as a catch-all line item on their balance sheets to include all other liabilities due within a year that are not classified elsewhere.




What is current ratio?
Analysts and creditors often use the current ratio, which measures a company’s ability to pay its short-term financial debts or obligations. The ratio, which is calculated by dividing current assets by current liabilities, shows how well a company manages its balance sheet to pay off its short-term debts and payables. It shows investors and analysts whether a company has enough current assets on its balance sheet to satisfy or pay off its current debt and other payables.




What are current assets?
Current assets represent all the assets of a company that are expected to be conveniently sold, consumed, used, or exhausted through standard business operations within one year. Current assets appear on a company’s balance sheet and include cash, cash equivalents, accounts receivable, stock inventory, marketable securities, prepaid liabilities, and other liquid assets. Current liabilities are typically settled using current assets.


   The Bottom Line  

Current liabilities are a company’s short-term financial obligations: bills that are due within one year or within a normal operating cycle. Current liabilities are typically settled using current assets. Examples of current liabilities include accounts payable, short-term debt, dividends, and notes payable as well as income taxes owed.



The analysis of current liabilities is important to investors and creditors. This can give a picture of a company’s financial solvency and management of its current liabilities.
What Is the Current Ratio?  

The current ratio is a liquidity ratio that measures a company’s ability to pay short-term obligations or those due within one year. It tells investors and analysts how a company can maximize the current assets on its balance sheet to satisfy its current debt and other payables.



A current ratio that is in line with the industry average or slightly higher is generally considered acceptable. A current ratio that is lower than the industry average may indicate a higher risk of distress or default. Similarly, if a company has a very high current ratio compared with its peer group, it indicates that management may not be using its assets efficiently.



The current ratio is called current because, unlike some other liquidity ratios, it incorporates all current assets and current liabilities. The current ratio is sometimes called the working capital ratio.





Key Takeaways

The current ratio compares all of a company’s current assets to its current liabilities.These are usually defined as assets that are cash or will be turned into cash in a year or less and liabilities that will be paid in a year or less.The current ratio helps investors understand more about a company’s ability to cover its short-term debt with its current assets and make apples-to-apples comparisons with its competitors and peers.One weakness of the current ratio is its difficulty of comparing the measure across industry groups.Others include the overgeneralization of the specific asset and liability balances, and the lack of trending information.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   Formula and Calculation for the Current Ratio  

To calculate the ratio, analysts compare a company’s current assets to its current liabilities.
Current assets listed on a company’s balance sheet include cash, accounts receivable, inventory, and other current assets (OCA) that are expected to be liquidated or turned into cash in less than one year.
Current liabilities include accounts payable, wages, taxes payable, short-term debts, and the current portion of long-term debt.















Current Ratio


=



Current assets


Current liabilities








\begin{aligned} &\text{Current Ratio}=\frac{\text{Current assets}}{ \text{Current liabilities}} \end{aligned}


​Current Ratio=Current liabilitiesCurrent assets​​


   Understanding the Current Ratio  

The current ratio measures a company’s ability to pay current, or short-term, liabilities (debts and payables) with its current, or short-term, assets, such as cash, inventory, and receivables.



In many cases, a company with a current ratio of less than 1.00 does not have the capital on hand to meet its short-term obligations if they were all due at once, while a current ratio greater than 1.00 indicates that the company has the financial resources to remain solvent in the short term. However, because the current ratio at any one time is just a snapshot, it is usually not a complete representation of a company’s short-term liquidity or longer-term solvency.



For example, a company may have a very high current ratio, but its accounts receivable may be very aged, perhaps because its customers pay slowly, which may be hidden in the current ratio. Some of the accounts receivable may even need to be written off. Analysts also must consider the quality of a company’s other assets vs. its obligations. If the inventory is unable to be sold, the current ratio may still look acceptable at one point in time, even though the company may be headed for default.






Public companies don't report their current ratio, though all the information needed to calculate the ratio is contained in the company's financial statements.


   Interpreting the Current Ratio  

A ratio under 1.00 indicates that the company’s debts due in a year or less are greater than its assets—cash or other short-term assets expected to be converted to cash within a year or less. A current ratio of less than 1.00 may seem alarming, although different situations can negatively affect the current ratio in a solid company.



For example, a normal cycle for the company’s collections and payment processes may lead to a high current ratio as payments are received, but a low current ratio as those collections ebb. Calculating the current ratio at just one point in time could indicate that the company can’t cover all of its current debts, but it doesn’t necessarily mean that it won’t be able to when the payments are due.



Additionally, some companies, especially larger retailers such as Walmart, have been able to negotiate much longer-than-average payment terms with their suppliers. If a retailer doesn’t offer credit to its customers, this can show on its balance sheet as a high payables balance relative to its receivables balance. Large retailers can also minimize their inventory volume through an efficient supply chain, which makes their current assets shrink against current liabilities, resulting in a lower current ratio. Walmart’s current ratio as of January 31, 2023 was 0.82.



In theory, the higher the current ratio, the more capable a company is of paying its obligations because it has a larger proportion of short-term asset value relative to the value of its short-term liabilities. However, though a high ratio—say, more than 3.00—could indicate that the company can cover its current liabilities three times, it also may indicate that it is not using its current assets efficiently, securing financing very well, or properly managing its working capital.



The current ratio can be a useful measure of a company’s short-term solvency when it is placed in the context of what has been historically normal for the company and its peer group. It also offers more insight when calculated repeatedly over several periods.


   How the Current Ratio Changes Over Time  

What makes the current ratio good or bad often depends on how it is changing. A company that seems to have an acceptable current ratio could be trending toward a situation in which it will struggle to pay its bills. Conversely, a company that may appear to be struggling now could be making good progress toward a healthier current ratio.



In the first case, the trend of the current ratio over time would be expected to harm the company’s valuation. Meanwhile, an improving current ratio could indicate an opportunity to invest in an undervalued stock amid a turnaround.



Imagine two companies with a current ratio of 1.00 today. Based on the trend of the current ratio in the following table, for which would analysts likely have more optimistic expectations?














 
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023 


Horn & Co.
0.75
0.88
0.93
0.97
0.99
1.00


Claws, Inc.
1.25
1.17
1.35
1.05
1.02
1.00






Two things should be apparent in the trend of Horn & Co. vs. Claws Inc. First, the trend for Claws is negative, which means further investigation is prudent. Perhaps it is taking on too much debt or its cash balance is being depleted—either of which could be a solvency issue if it worsens. The trend for Horn & Co. is positive, which could indicate better collections, faster inventory turnover, or that the company has been able to pay down debt.



The second factor is that Claws’ current ratio has been more volatile, jumping from 1.35 to 1.05 in a single year, which could indicate increased operational risk and a likely drag on the company’s value.


   Example Using the Current Ratio  

In its Q4 2022 fiscal results, Apple Inc. reported total current assets of $135.4 billion, slightly higher than its total current assets at the end of the last fiscal year of $134.8 billion. However, the company's liability composition significantly changed from 2021 to 2022. At the 2022, the company reported $154.0 billion of current liabilities, almost $29 billion greater than current liabilities from the prior period.















2022 Apple Balance Sheet, Select Accounts.



For 2021, Apple had more current assets than current liabilities. Its current ratio was ($134.836b / $125.481b) 1.075. This means that if all current liabilities of Apple were immediately due, the company could pay all of its bills without leveraging long-term assets.



At the end of 2022, it was a slightly different story. Apple's current ratio was ($135.405b / $153.982b) 0.88. This means that Apple technically did not have enough current assets on hand to pay all of its short-term bills. Analysts may not be concerned due to Apple's ability to churn through production, sell inventory, or secure short-term financing (with its $217 billion of non-current assets pledged as collateral, for instance).


   Current Ratio vs. Other Liquidity Ratios  

Other similar liquidity ratios can supplement a current ratio analysis. In each case, the differences in these measures can help an investor understand the current status of the company’s assets and liabilities from different angles, as well as how those accounts are changing over time.



The commonly used acid-test ratio, or quick ratio, compares a company’s easily liquidated assets (including cash, accounts receivable, and short-term investments, excluding inventory and prepaid expenses) to its current liabilities. The cash asset ratio, or cash ratio, also is similar to the current ratio, but it only compares a company’s marketable securities and cash to its current liabilities.



Companies may use days sales outstanding to better understand how long it takes for a company to collect payments after credit sales have been made. While the current ratio looks at the liquidity of the company overall, the days sales outstanding metric calculates liquidity specifically to how well a company collects outstanding accounts receivables.



Finally, the operating cash flow ratio compares a company’s active cash flow from operating activities (CFO) to its current liabilities. This allows a company to better gauge funding capabilities by omitting implications created by accounting entries.






The current ratio is most useful when measured over time, compared against a competitor, or compared against a benchmark.


   Limitations of Using the Current Ratio  

One limitation of the current ratio emerges when using it to compare different companies with one another. Businesses differ substantially among industries; comparing the current ratios of companies across different industries may not lead to productive insight.



For example, in one industry, it may be more typical to extend credit to clients for 90 days or longer, while in another industry, short-term collections are more critical. Ironically, the industry that extends more credit actually may have a superficially stronger current ratio because its current assets would be higher. It is usually more useful to compare companies within the same industry.



Another drawback of using the current ratio, briefly mentioned above, involves its lack of specificity. Unlike many other liquidity ratios, it incorporates all of a company’s current assets, even those that cannot be easily liquidated. For example, imagine two companies that both have a current ratio of 0.80 at the end of the last quarter. On the surface, this may look equivalent, but the quality and liquidity of those assets may be very different, as shown in the following breakdown:












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020



In this example, Company A has much more inventory than Company B, which will be harder to turn into cash in the short term. Perhaps this inventory is overstocked or unwanted, which eventually may reduce its value on the balance sheet. Company B has more cash, which is the most liquid asset, and more accounts receivable, which could be collected more quickly than liquidating inventory. Although the total value of current assets matches, Company B is in a more liquid, solvent position.



The current liabilities of Company A and Company B are also very different. Company A has more accounts payable, while Company B has a greater amount in short-term notes payable. This would be worth more investigation because it is likely that the accounts payable will have to be paid before the entire balance of the notes-payable account. Company A also has fewer wages payable, which is the liability most likely to be paid in the short term.



In this example, although both companies seem similar, Company B is likely in a more liquid and solvent position. An investor can dig deeper into the details of a current ratio comparison by evaluating other liquidity ratios that are more narrowly focused than the current ratio.




What Is a Good Current Ratio?
What counts as a good current ratio will depend on the company’s industry and historical performance. Current ratios of 1.50 or greater would generally indicate ample liquidity.




What Happens If the Current Ratio Is Less Than 1?
As a general rule, a current ratio below 1.00 could indicate that a company might struggle to meet its short-term obligations, whereas ratios of above 1.00 might indicate a company is able to pay its current debts as they come due. If a company's current ratio is less than one, it may have more bills to pay than easily accessible resources to pay those bills.




What Does a Current Ratio of 1.5 Mean?
A current ratio of 1.5 would indicate that the company has $1.50 of current assets for every $1 of current liabilities. For example, suppose a company’s current assets consist of $50,000 in cash plus $100,000 in accounts receivable. Its current liabilities, meanwhile, consist of $100,000 in accounts payable. In this scenario, the company would have a current ratio of 1.5, calculated by dividing its current assets ($150,000) by its current liabilities ($100,000).




How Is the Current Ratio Calculated?
Calculating the current ratio is very straightforward: Simply divide the company’s current assets by its current liabilities. Current assets are those that can be converted into cash within one year, while current liabilities are obligations expected to be paid within one year. Examples of current assets include cash, inventory, and accounts receivable. Examples of current liabilities include accounts payable, wages payable, and the current portion of any scheduled interest or principal payments.


   The Bottom Line  

The current ratio is a useful liquidity measurement used to track how well a company may be able to meet its short-term debt obligations. It compares the ratio of current assets to current liabilities, and measurements less than 1.0 indicate a company's potential inability to use current resources to fund short-term obligations.
What Is the Current Yield?  

Current yield is an investment's annual income (interest or dividends) divided by the current price of the security. This measure examines the current price of a bond, rather than looking at its face value. Current yield represents the return an investor would expect to earn, if the owner purchased the bond and held it for a year. However, current yield is not the actual return an investor receives if he holds a bond until maturity.












Image by Sabrina Jiang © Investopedia 2020


   Breaking Down Current Yield  

Current yield is most often applied to bond investments, which are securities that are issued to an investor at a par value (face amount) of $1,000. A bond carries a coupon amount of interest that is stated on the face of the bond certificate, and bonds are traded between investors. Since the market price of a bond changes, an investor may purchase a bond at a discount (less than par value) or a premium (more than par value), and the purchase price of a bond affects the current yield.





Key Takeaways

In fixed income investing, a bond's current yield is an investment's annual income, including both interest payments and dividends payments, which are then divided by the current price of the security. Because the market price of a bond may change, investors may purchase bonds at either a discount or a premium, where the purchase price of a bond affects the current yield.With equities, the current yield can also be calculated by taking the dividends received for a stock and dividing that amount by the stock’s current market price.


   How Current Yield Is Calculated  

If an investor buys a 6% coupon rate bond for a discount of $900, the investor earns an annual interest income of ($1,000 X 6%), or $60. The current yield is ($60) / ($900), or 6.67%. The $60 in annual interest is fixed, regardless of the price paid for the bond. On the other hand, if an investor purchases a bond at a premium of $1,100, the current yield is ($60) / ($1,100), or 5.45%. The investor paid more for the premium bond that pays the same dollar amount of interest, therefore the current yield is lower.



Current yield can also be calculated for stocks by taking the dividends received for a stock and dividing the amount by the stock’s current market price.


   Factoring in Yield to Maturity  

Yield to maturity (YTM) is the total return earned on a bond, assuming that the bond owner holds the bond until the maturity date. For example, let's assume that the 6% coupon rate bond purchased for a discount of $900, will mature in the 10 years. To calculate YTM, an investor makes an assumption about a discount rate, so that the future principal and interest payments are discounted to present value.



In this example, the investor receives $60 in annual interest payments for 10 years. At maturity, the owner receives the par value of $1,000, and the investor recognizes a $100 capital gain. The present value of the interest payments and the capital gain are added to compute the bond's YTM. If the bond is purchased at a premium, the YTM calculation includes a capital loss when the bond matures at par value. (For related reading, see "Current Yield vs. Yield to Maturity")






As a financial theory general rule, investors should expect higher returns, for riskier investments. Therefore, if two bonds have similar risk profiles, investors should opt for the higher return producing offering.
What Is a CUSIP Number?  

A CUSIP number is a unique nine-digit identification number assigned to equity, debt, and other securities registered bonds in the United States and Canada. It is used to create a concrete distinction between securities that are traded on public markets. These numbers are used to help facilitate trades and settlements by providing a constant identifier to help distinguish the securities within a trade. Each trade and the corresponding CUSIP number are recorded to facilitate the tracking of actions and activities.





Key Takeaways

A CUSIP number is a unique identification number assigned to stocks and registered bonds in the United States and Canada.It comprises nine letters and includes letters and numbers.CUSIPs were first introduced in 1964 to simplify the settlement and clearance of stocks.They are mainly used today in computerized trading record-keeping systems for trades and shareholder records.Foreign securities have CINS or ISIN numbers instead of a CUSIP.


   How CUSIP Numbers Work  

Pronounced Q-sip CUSIP is an acronym for the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, which oversees the entire CUSIP system. Just like the stock symbols assigned to the shares of a publicly traded company, a CUSIP number is a unique identifier attached to the equity, debt, and other securities issued by a company. It is similar to a serial number and is made up of nine digits:



The first six alphanumeric characters are known as the base or CUSIP-6, which identifies the issuerThe seventh and eighth digits identify the type of securityThe ninth digit is a check digit that is automatically generated



The table below highlights some of the securities that are identified by CUSIP numbers.










Equity 
Debt 
Other 


Common Stock 
Corporate Bonds 
Hedge Funds 


Preferred Stock 
Municipal Bonds 
Derivatives


Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs)
Commercial Paper
Variable Annuities


Mutual Funds
Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDOs)
Insurance-Related Vehicles


Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs)
Certificates of Deposit (CDs)
Captial Securities


American Depository Receipts (ADRs)
Asset-Backed Securities
Equity-Linked Notes


Indexes
Syndicated Loans
Credit Derivatives






By providing a consistent identifier that distinguishes securities, CUSIP numbers help facilitate and ease actions and activities such as trades and settlements. CUSIP Global Services creates anywhere from 1,000 to 2,000 new identifiers each day.



CUSIP Global Services is managed by FactSet Research Systems on behalf of the American Bankers Association (ABA). FactSet purchased CUSIP Global Services from Standard & Poor's (S&P) in 2022 for about $1.925 billion.





11 million+

The number of financial instruments categorized by the CUSIP system.


   How to Locate a CUSIP Number  

CUSIP numbers are publicly available and can be accessed through the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) via the Electronic Municipal Market Access (EMMA) system. Additionally, the information is often listed on official statements relating to security such as confirmations of purchase or periodic financial statements, or the information can be accessed through various securities dealers.






A dummy CUSIP is a temporary, nine-character placeholder used internally by a company to identify a specific security until its official CUSIP number is assigned.


   CUSIP vs. ISIN vs. CINS  

CUSIP Global Services also has a series of other important identifiers along with CUSIP. Two of these are ISIN and CINS, foreign securities.


  ISIN  

Expanding beyond the CUSIP system is the International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) system. ISINs are used internationally with most United States and Canadian securities labeled with an additional two-character prefix and one final check character attached at the end of the originally issued CUSIP.



Additionally, information regarding the currency of the specified security is also required to facilitate proper processing and recording. This has helped establish an international system for the clearance of securities. While it is not yet used worldwide, the ISIN system has gained traction across foreign markets as a way to simplify trading processes, particularly for international investing.


  CINS  

A CINS number, which is known as the CUSIP International Numbering System, is another international extension of the CUSIP numbering system. A CINS number consists of nine characters and is used for securities issued in 30 markets outside North America. In this case, the first letter represents the issuing country. For example, E09876AA7 represents a AA credit-rating corporate bond issued in Spain (E is the letter used to identify Spain) and offered in a foreign market.


   Examples of CUSIP Numbers  

Here are a few examples of actual CUSIPs for companies across various sectors.









CUSIP Numbers For Select Stocks




Apple
037833100


Alphabet
02079K107


Alaska Air Group
011659109


Walmart
931142103



CUSIP numbers




Why Are CUSIP Numbers Important?
CUSIP numbers are unique identifiers attached to listed stocks and bonds. They provide a standardized method for identifying securities to facilitate the clearance and settlement of trading market transactions.




What Does a CUSIP Number Tell You?
A CUSIP will tell you the exact type of security it references and who issued it. The unique identifier will also tell you what type of security it is (e.g., a corporate bond or common stock).




What Can I Do With a CUSIP Number?
As an ordinary investor, CUSIP numbers are not of much use. Instead, these are used primarily by brokerage and clearing firms to ensure that transactions are properly settled and recorded.




How Do I Look Up a CUSIP Number?
There are several ways to do this. Perhaps the simplest is to request a stock quote on a broker's website, which often will include the CUSIP. You can also find the numbers on a brokerage's official statements sent to clients, or on physical stock or bond certificates if you own them. Certain bond CUSIPs may also be obtained through the Municipal Securities Rule-Making Board via the Electronic Municipal Market Access system.


   The Bottom Line  

A CUSIP number is a nine-digit alphanumeric code that is used to identify securities, such as stocks, bonds, and other financial instruments. The CUSIP (Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures) system was developed in the 1960s as a way to uniquely identify securities and facilitate the settlement of trades.



Each CUSIP number is unique to a specific security, and it is assigned by the CUSIP Service Bureau, which is operated by the American Bankers Association. CUSIP numbers are used by banks, brokerages, and other financial institutions to identify and track securities in their systems, and they are also used to facilitate the clearing and settlement of trades. CUSIP numbers are typically found on the front of a bond certificate, and they can also be found in various databases and other sources of information about securities.
What Is a Custodial Account?  

The term custodial account generally refers to a savings account at a financial institution, mutual fund company, or brokerage firm that an adult controls for a minor (a person under the age of 18 or 21 years, depending on the laws of the state of residence). Approval from the custodian is mandatory for the account to conduct transactions, such as buying or selling securities.



In a broader sense, a custodial account can mean any account maintained by a fiduciarily responsible party on behalf of a beneficiary, such as an employer-based retirement account handled for eligible employees by a plan administrator. A fiduciary is bound ethically and legally to act on the best behalf of another's interests.



Each state has specific regulations governing the age of majority and the naming of custodians and alternate custodians.





Key Takeaways


A custodial account is a savings account set up and administered by an adult for a minor.
Custodial accounts have enormous flexibility with no income or contribution limits, or withdrawal penalties.
Custodial accounts do not require distributions at any point.
Gifts to a custodial account are irrevocable, which means that they can't be adjusted or reversed.
The account's holdings irrevocably pass into the minor's control when they come of age depending on their state of residence.













Investopedia / Mira Norian


   How a Custodial Account Works  

Once established, a custodial account functions like any other account at a bank or brokerage. The custodian—a designated manager or investment advisor—decides how to invest the money. The account manager—or other entities—can continue to contribute to the fund.



As noted above, custodial accounts can invest in a variety of assets. However, the financial institution probably won't allow the manager to use the account to trade on margin or buy futures, derivatives, or other highly speculative investments.



Once the minor reaches the legal age of adulthood in their state, control of the account officially transfers from the custodian to the named beneficiary, at which point they claim full control and use of the funds. Should the minor die before reaching age of majority, the account will become part of the child's estate.


   Types of Custodial Accounts  

Custodial accounts come in two basic varieties: the Uniform Transfers to Minors Act (UTMA) accounts and the older Uniform Gift to Minors Act (UGMA) accounts. Their main distinction lies in the kind of assets you can contribute to them.



UTMA accounts can hold virtually any kind of asset, including real estate, intellectual property, and works of art. UGMA accounts are limited to financial assets of cash, securities—stocks, bonds, mutual funds—annuities, and insurance policies. All U.S. states allow UGMA accounts. However, South Carolina and Vermont do not allow UTMA accounts.



Both UTMA and the older version UGMA have custodial accounts set up in the minor's name, with a designated custodian—usually the child's parent or guardian. Initial investments, minimum account balances, and interest rates vary by the company that houses the account.






There are two types of custodial accounts: the Uniform Transfers to Minors Act (UTMA) and the Uniform Gift to Minors Act (UGMA); The UTMA is allowed in all states except South Carolina, while the UGMA is allowed in all 50 states.


   Advantages and Disadvantages of Custodial Accounts  

There are advantages, including tax advantages, for custodial accounts. But there are also downsides, including the risk that the account will limit the amount the child can access in financial aid in college.


  Advantages of Custodial Accounts  

Custodial accounts have enormous flexibility. There are no income or contribution limits, and no requirements to make regular distributions at any point. Also, there are no withdrawal penalties.



While all withdrawn funds are restricted to being used "for the benefit of the minor," this requirement is vague and is not limited to educational costs, as with college savings plans. The custodian may use the funds for everything from providing a place to live or paying for clothing as long as the beneficiary receives a benefit.



A custodial account is much simpler and less expensive to establish than a trust fund. The aim of both UGMA and UTMA regulations was to allow adults to transfer assets to minors without the need to establish a special trust to enable such ownership.


  Tax Advantages  

While not tax-deferred, as are IRAs, custodial accounts do have some tax advantages. The IRS considers the minor child the owner of the account, so the earnings in it are taxed at the child's tax rate up to a certain point. Every child under 19 years old—24 for full-time students—who files as part of their parents’ tax return is allowed a certain amount of “unearned income” at a reduced tax rate.



For 2022, the first $1,150 of unearned income is tax-free, and the next $1,150 is taxed at 10%. Income of more than $2,300 will be taxed at the parent's rate. However, once the minor reaches the age of majority in their state of residence, they can file a tax return of their own. At this age, all of the account earnings will be subject to the beneficiary's tax bracket at the age of filing.



Also, an individual can contribute up to $16,000 to an account for the 2022 tax year without incurring the federal gift tax. This gift tax exclusion amount is set to increase to $17,000 per individual for the 2023 tax year.


  Disadvantages of Custodial Accounts  

A minor's ownership of the custodial account can be a double-edged sword. Since the holdings count as assets, they may reduce a child's financial aid eligibility when they apply for college. It could also reduce their ability to access other forms of government or community aid.



Any deposit or gifts made to the account is irrevocable, meaning it cannot be changed or reversed. All of the account's holdings pass, irrevocably, to the minor at the age of majority. In contrast, many college savings plans, such as a 529 account, allow parents to retain control of the funds.



Custodial accounts are not as tax-sheltered as other accounts. To mitigate a tax bite, a custodian can transfer funds to an eligible 529 plan. However, to do so, the custodian must liquidate any non-cash investments in the custodial account.



Also, the custodial account beneficiary cannot be altered, whereas, the beneficiary on a 529 college plan may change with some limitations. A custodial account is set up in the minor's name. Since the account is irrevocable, the beneficiary of the account may not change, and no gifts or contributions made into the account can be reversed.





Pros

Easy to establish and manage
Free from income, contribution, or withdrawal limits
Can invest in a variety of assets



Cons

Less tax-advantaged than other accounts
Can hurt child's financial aid prospects
Irrevocably pass to child upon majority





   Examples of a Custodial Account  

Most brokerages, both digital and brick-and-mortar, offer custodial accounts. Custodial account terms usually parallel that of their regular, non-tax-advantaged accounts for individuals.



For example, a Merrill Edge—the digital broker platform from Merrill Lynch—UGMA/UTMA custodial account can be set up online with funds directly transferred from a checking or savings account at Bank of America, Merrill's parent company. There are no annual account fees or minimum investment amounts.



You can also open custodial deposit and checking accounts at most bank branches.




Can You Withdraw Money From a Custodial Account?
Yes, money can be withdrawn from custodial accounts, as long as it is used "for the benefit of the minor," a vague term that includes, but is not limited to educational costs.




What Do You Do With a Custodial Account When Your Child Turns 18?
The account is transferred to the child once they reach the age of majority, which is either 18 or 21, depending on the state.




How Do I Get a Custodial Account?
If you are under the age of either 18 or 21, depending on the state, an adult can open a custodial account for you. The person who opens the account would manage it until you reach the age of majority, at which point it is transferred over to you and you are responsible for its management.




How Is a Custodial Account Taxed?
Children file as part of their parent's tax return, generally. Earnings in the account are tax-deductible up to $1,150 in 2022, while the next $1,150 gets taxed at the lowest tax rate of 10%. After that, any additional earnings are taxed at the child's parent's tax rate, as per IRS requirements.


   The Bottom Line  

A custodial account is a means by which an adult can open a savings account for a child. The adult who opens the account is responsible for managing it, including making investment decisions, and deciding how the money is to be used, so long as it benefits the child in some way. There are specific tax advantages to a custodial account, but there are also risks, such as the possibility that the existence of the account limits the amount of financial aid a child might get. Weigh the pros and cons before deciding to open a custodial account.
What Is a Custodian Bank?  

A custodian bank is a financial institution that holds customers' securities for safekeeping to prevent them from being stolen or lost. The custodian may hold stocks, bonds, or other assets in electronic or physical form on behalf of its customers.



Often, a custodian bank does more than provide asset protection. It can manage customers' accounts and transactions, manage the settlement of financial transactions, account for the status of assets, and ensure compliance with tax regulations.





Key Takeaways

A custodian bank holds financial assets for safekeeping to minimize the risk of theft or loss.Investment advisors are required to arrange for a custodian for assets they manage for their clients.These assets may be stored in physical or electronic form.Custodian banks can also manage financial accounts, handle settlements, and deal with compliance and tax issues.Custodian banks can serve as mutual fund custodians.












Investopedia / Lara Antal


   How a Custodian Bank Works  

Since they are responsible for the safety of assets and securities worth hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars, custodians tend to be large and reputable firms, such as banks. Investment advisory firms routinely use custodian banks to safeguard the assets they manage for their clients.



A custodian also may be appointed to maintain control of the assets of a minor child or an incapacitated adult and manage them on their behalf.


  Other Services Provided  

Most custodians offer related services such as account administration, transaction settlements, the collection and distribution of dividends and interest payments, tax support, and foreign exchange management.



A custodian bank may handle investment activities for customers. This could involve placing orders with a brokerage to buy or sell securities, transferring funds to and from accounts, overseeing investment account activities, and reporting account activity to customers.



Custodians may also prepare the necessary tax filings related to investment activities for customers.



The fees for their services depend on exactly what they provide and can be based on the value of assets held.






A custodian bank may have the right to take possession of assets if required, often in conjunction with a power of attorney. This allows the custodian bank to perform actions on behalf of a client, such as making payments or altering investments.


   Custodian Banks vs. Traditional Banks  

The difference between custodian banks and traditional banks lies in their primary roles.



Custodian banks are concerned above all with the safekeeping of financial assets belonging to individuals or institutions. They may also offer services related to that primary role. However, they don't offer the services provided by traditional banks.



Traditional banks are financial institutions whose primary role is to take and hold deposits for customers and extend loans to them. Bank customers should be familiar with such activities and the products that represent them.



These products can include checking and savings accounts, certificate of deposit accounts (CDs), money market accounts, personal loans, car loans, and mortgage loans. All are related to their primary role.



Traditional banks may offer other related and beneficial services such as check cashing, credit cards, investment services, and business banking.



A traditional bank may also offer custody services and thus function as a custodian bank, as well.


   Custodian Banks vs. Mutual Fund Custodians  

As mentioned above, a custodian bank takes on the responsibility of safeguarding the financial assets of individuals and institutions. It may provide additional, related services, as needed.



Mutual fund custodians are third party institutions that protect the securities in which mutual funds invest. A mutual fund custodian is often a custodian bank, but mutual fund custodians are focused on mutual fund company assets.



The separation between mutual fund and mutual fund custodian is important. Should a fund's management declare bankruptcy, the mutual fund custodian, which has maintained control over the fund's assets, will return investments to the shareholders.



In addition to safeguarding the assets, mutual fund custodians can handle settlements, track investors' transactions, and ensure that money is deposited in the custodial account or sent to investors (or their brokerages).



The mutual fund custodian also pays fund expenses related to share transactions and monitors the companies in which the fund invests to ensure the mutual fund companies are in compliance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations.



The mutual fund custodian must also maintain transaction records and report activities to the SEC, as required.


   Special Considerations  

In cases where investment advisors are responsible for customer funds, the advisor must follow custody rules set forth by the SEC.



In particular, the person or entity must be considered a qualified custodian. That limits the field to banks, registered brokers, registered dealers, and certain other individuals or entities.



Notices must be provided to customers when certain activities are conducted on their behalf. Regular account statements must also be provided to the customers.






One of the nation's oldest banking institutions, JPMorgan Chase & Co., is also one of its largest custodian banks.


   Custodians for Minors  

If an account beneficiary is a minor, a custodian is often required (i.e., a custodial account). In such cases, the custodian may be a responsible individual rather than an institution. The custodian has the authority to make investment decisions regarding the assets in the account, but the funds are ultimately intended for use only by the named beneficiary.



Each account can have only one beneficiary, the minor account holder, and one custodian, a designated adult representative. The custodian remains in place until the beneficiary reaches adulthood.



Other people can contribute to a minor's account, but they have no authority over how the funds are managed once they are deposited.




What Purpose Does a Custodian Financial Institution Serve?
A custodian financial institution keeps the securities owned by individuals and organizations safe. This serves an important purpose since financial securities must be cleared and settled properly, with various regulatory and accounting procedures met. These are often far too complex or time consuming for investors or traders.




What Other Services Do Custodian Banks Offer?
Custodians today do more than maintain the security of assets. They also provide accounting and settlement services, such as managing dividends or interest that has been distributed to the account or managing stock splits. The custodian bank performs such actions in the client's name, and the SEC ensures that custodians will notify customers when certain activities are conducted on their behalf in addition to sending regular account statements.




What Are Some of the Largest Custodian Banks?
Bank of New York (BNY) Mellon, JPMorgan Chase, State Street, and Citigroup are among the largest custodian banks in the U.S. Some of the best-known custodian banks overseas include the Bank of China, Credit Suisse and UBS (Switzerland), Deutsche Bank (Germany), Barclays (England), and BNP Paribas (France).




Why Are Custodian Banks Important?
Custodian banks are important because the security services they offer are needed by both individuals and institutions. They can be of valuable assistance to holders of financial accounts and assets who don't want to (or can't) play a role in the day-to-day management of their accounts' transactions and other activities. Custodian banks also can manage assets, handle reporting, and ensure compliance with regulations. They can also address tax management goals.




Are There Custodians Other Than Banks?
Yes, a custodian can be an individual. Other types of firms, such as a law firm or an accounting firm, can be custodians, as well.


   The Bottom Line  

Custodian banks play an important role in holding and protecting the financial assets owned by individuals and institutions.



They perform related activities such as account administration, transaction settlements, the collection and distribution of dividends and fixed income interest payments, tax support, and foreign exchange management.



Custodians can also be appointed to aid in the oversight and management of financial accounts held by minors and adults unable to care for their affairs due to age, illness, or physical debilitation.
What Is a Customer?  

A customer is an individual or business that purchases another company's goods or services. Customers are important because they drive revenues. Without them, businesses can neither survive nor thrive.



All businesses compete with other companies to attract customers, either by aggressively advertising their products, by lowering prices to expand their customer bases, or by developing unique products and experiences that customers love. Think Apple, Tesla, Google, or TikTok.





Key Takeaways

Customers are the individuals and businesses that purchase goods and services from another business.To understand how to better meet the needs of its customers, some businesses closely monitor their customer relationships to identify ways to improve service and products.The way businesses treat their customers can give them a competitive edge.Although consumers can be customers, consumers are defined as those who consume or use market goods and services.


   Understanding Customers  

Businesses often honor the adage "the customer is always right" because happy customers are more likely to award repeat business to companies who meet or exceed their needs.



As a result, many companies closely monitor their customer relationships to garner information about customer behavior and to solicit feedback from customers on ways to improve product lines.



Customers are categorized in many ways. Most commonly, customers are classified as external or internal.



External customers are dissociated from business operations and are often the parties interested in purchasing the final goods and services produced by a company.



Internal customers are individuals or businesses integrated into business operations, often existing as employees or other functional groups within the company.


  Studying Customers  

Businesses frequently study their customers' profiles and behaviors to fine-tune their marketing approaches and tailor their inventory to attract more customers.



Customers are often grouped according to demographics such as age, race, gender, ethnicity, income level, and geographic location, all of which may help businesses cultivate a snapshot of the "ideal customer" or "customer persona."



This information helps companies deepen existing customer relationships and reach untapped consumer populations to increase traffic.



Customers are so important that colleges and universities offer consumer behavior courses dedicated to the study of customer behavioral patterns, choices, and idiosyncrasies. These courses focus on why people buy and use goods and services and how those decisions impact companies and economies.



Understanding customers enables businesses to create effective marketing and advertising campaigns, deliver products and services that address needs and wants, and retain customers for long-term repeat business.


  Customer Service  

Customer service, which strives to ensure positive experiences, is key to a successful seller/customer dynamic. Loyalty in the form of favorable online reviews, referrals, and future business can be won or lost based on a good or bad customer service experience.



In recent years, customer service has evolved to include real-time interactions via instant message chats, texting, and other means of communication.



The market is saturated with businesses offering the same or similar products and services. What truly distinguishes one from another is customer service, which has become the basis of competition for many businesses. Customer service is a key element of the quality improvement methodology, Six Sigma.






Customers differ from purchasing agents, who use corporate capital to buy goods at wholesale for commercial or industrial use.


   Customers vs. Consumers  

The terms "customer" and "consumer" are nearly synonymous and are often used interchangeably. However, there exists a slight difference. Consumers are defined as individuals or businesses that consume or use goods and services. Customers are the economy's purchasers who buy goods and services. They can exist as consumers or simply as customers.




What Are the 5 Basic Types of Customers?
The five basic customers are new customers, impulse customers, angry customers, insistent customers, and loyal customers.




What Is the Best Type of Customer?
Loyal customers are the best because they make repeat purchases over the long-term (sometimes decades) and they are likely to recommend you to friends, social media connections, or business associates.




What Do Customers Value Most?
Customers probably most appreciate high quality products or services, low prices, good service, and the opportunity to give a company feedback that the company acknowledges.


   The Bottom Line  

A company's most valuable asset is its customers for without them, they're out of business. The best companies go to great lengths to study and understand customer behaviors and desires so that they can address issues that displease buyers and promote products and services that they like and want more of.
What Is Customer Relationship Management (CRM)?  

Customer relationship management (CRM) refers to the principles, practices, and guidelines that an organization follows when interacting with its customers.



From the organization's point of view, this entire relationship encompasses direct interactions with customers, such as sales and service-related processes, forecasting, and the analysis of customer trends and behaviors. Ultimately, CRM serves to enhance the customer's overall experience.





Key Takeaways

Customer relationship management includes the principles, practices, and guidelines an organization follows when interacting with its customers.CRM is often used to refer to technology companies and systems that help manage external interactions with customers.Major areas of growth in CRM technology include software, cloud computing, and artificial intelligence.


   Understanding Customer Relationship Management (CRM)  

Elements of CRM range from a company's website and emails to mass mailings and telephone calls. Social media is one-way companies adapt to trends that benefit their bottom line. The entire point of CRM is to build positive experiences with customers to keep them coming back so that a company can create a growing base of returning customers.



Increasingly, the term CRM is being used to refer to the technological systems that managers and companies use to manage external interactions with customers. It is useful at all points during the customer lifecycle, from discovery to education, purchase, and post-purchase.



With an estimated global market value of over $40 billion in 2018, CRM technology is widely cited as the fastest-growing enterprise-software category, which largely encompasses the broader software-as-a-service (SaaS) market. Five of the largest players in the CRM market today include cloud computing giant Salesforce, Microsoft, SAP, Oracle, and Adobe Systems.






CRM includes all aspects in which a company interacts with customers, but more commonly refers to the technology used to manage these relationships.


   Benefits of CRM  

A CRM system helps businesses organize and centralize their information on customers, allowing for easier access and customer support. Businesses use CRM systems to optimize sales and marketing and improve customer retention. Data analytics is also much easier, where businesses can track the success of various projects or campaigns, identify trends, infer associations, and create visually intuitive data dashboards.



Customers enjoy better service and are more likely to report higher satisfaction as a result. Customer interactions including complaints are stored and can be easily recalled so that customers do not have to constantly repeat themselves.


   CRM Technology  
  CRM Software  

Special CRM software aggregates customer information in one place to give businesses easy access to data, such as contact data, purchase history, and any previous contact with customer service representatives. This data helps employees interact with clients, anticipate customer needs, recognize customer updates, and track performance goals when it comes to sales.



CRM software's main purpose is to make interactions more efficient and productive. Automated procedures within a CRM module include sending sales team marketing materials based on a customer's selection of a product or service. Programs also assess a customer's needs to reduce the time it takes to fulfill a request.


  CRM Cloud Solutions  

Cloud-based systems provide real-time data to sales agents at the office and in the field as long as a computer, smartphone, laptop or tablet connects to the internet. Such systems boast heightened accessibility to customer information and eliminate the sometimes-complicated installation process involved with other CRM products or software.



The convenience of this type of system, however, has a trade-off. If a company goes out of business or faces an acquisition, access to customer information may become compromised. A business might have compatibility issues when and if it migrates to a different vendor for this kind of software. Also, cloud-based CRM programs typically cost more than in-house programs.


  CRM Human Management and Artificial Intelligence  

All of the computer software in the world to help with CRM means nothing without proper management and decision-making from humans. Plus, the best programs organize data in a way that humans can interpret readily and use to their advantage. For successful CRM, companies must learn to discern useful information and superfluous data and must weed out any duplicate and incomplete records that may give employees inaccurate information about customers.



Despite this human need, industry analysts are increasingly discussing the impact that artificial intelligence applications may have on CRM management and the CRM market in the near future. AI is expected to strengthen CRM activities by speeding up sales cycles, optimizing pricing and distribution logistics, lowering costs of support calls, increasing resolution rates, and preventing loss through fraud detection.



Tangible AI applications for CRM, however, are in the early stages of adoption, although Salesforce and Microsoft have already started to integrate AI components into their existing CRM systems.






Industry research estimates that the CRM market was valued at $52.4 billion in 2021, and will grow at an average annualized growth rate of 13.3% through 2030.


   Types of CRM  

Today, many comprehensive CRM platforms integrate all parts of the customer relationship the business may have. However, some CRMs are still designed to target a specific aspect of it:



Sales CRM: to drive sales and increase the pipeline of new customers and prospects. Emphasis is placed on the sales cycle from tracking leads to closing deals.Marketing CRM: to build, automate, and track marketing campaigns (especially online or via email), including identifying targeted customer segments. These CRMs provide real-time statistics and can use A/B testing to optimize strategies.Service CRM: integrated dedicated customer service support with sales and marketing. Often features multiple contact points including responsive online chat, mobile, email, and social media.Collaborative CRM: encourages the sharing of customer data across business segments and among teams to improve efficiency and communication and work seamlessly together.Small Business CRM: optimized for smaller businesses with fewer customers to give those customers the best possible experience. These systems are often much simpler, intuitive, and less expensive to implement than enterprise CRM.


   Frequently Asked Questions  


How Much Does a CRM System Cost?
CRM pricing will depend on the size of the business, scope of features in the platform, number of users, and software vendor. Set-up and implementation fees can run in the thousands of dollars. CRM is then typically billed on a per-user per-month basis and can range from $15 to $300 or more per-user per-month depending on the complexity of the implementation.




How Do Businesses Choose Which CRM to Go With?
Today, there are several vendors of CRM platforms, so choosing a CRM boils down to cost, service, and functionality. That means you want the best bang for your buck, and not to spend extra money on added features that you won't use. Establish a budget that revolves around the business' goals and then select the features or functions that you require. Then, shop around and research vendors' customer reviews and feedback.




What Is an Example of Customer Relationship Management?
CRM can come in many forms, from tracking customers' purchasing behavior to fielding complaints and returns. One example of CRM might be sending out a tailored thank you note to customers after making a key purchase, both to improve their experience with the company but also in an attempt for a cross-sale or to upsell them in the future.
What Is Customer Service?  

Customer service is the direct one-on-one interaction between a consumer and a company representative. The interaction is commonly done when a consumer is buying a product or service from the company. Most retailers see this direct interaction as a critical factor in ensuring buyer satisfaction and encouraging repeat business. The option to speak to a live customer service agent is considered necessary for most businesses even though the bulk of customer care is automated. Customer service is also considered a key aspect of servant-leadership.





Key Takeaways

Customer service is the interaction between the buyer of a product and the company that sells it. Good customer service is critical to business success, ensuring brand loyalty one customer at a time.Recent innovations have focused on automating customer service systems but the human element is, in some cases, indispensable.












Investopedia / Jessica Olah


   How Customer Service Works  

Behind the scenes at most companies are people who never meet or greet the people who buy their products. The customer service representatives are the ones who have direct contact with the buyers. The buyers' perceptions of the company and the product are shaped in part by their experience in dealing with that person. This is why many companies work hard to increase their customer satisfaction levels.



Successful small business owners understand the need for good customer service instinctively. Larger businesses study the subject in-depth, and they have some basic conclusions about the key components:



Timely attention to issues raised by customers is critical. Requiring a customer to wait in line or sit on hold sours an interaction before it begins.Customer service should be a single-step process for the consumer. If a customer calls a helpline, the representative should whenever possible follow the problem through to its resolution.If a customer must be transferred to another department, the original representative should follow up with the customer to ensure that the problem was solved.






Customer service should be a one-stop process for the consumer whenever possible.


   Benefits of Customer Service  

There are many reasons why businesses should invest in (good) customer service. The following are just some of the main benefits of implementing a customer service program within a company:



Customer Retention: The first and most obvious advantage of having a customer service plan in place is to keep customers happy. It means listening to concerns, being empathetic, and easing issues related to product availability, payment, returns, and technical support. Showing that a company cares keeps customers loyal.
Employee Retention: Customer service isn't just for customers. It also helps keep employees with the company. When customers are happy, employees are, too. Individuals tend to want to work in an environment that cares about their customers.
Troubleshooting and Problem-Solving: Businesses have to take care of their customers' problems. But companies that take a proactive approach tend to do better. This means that it's important to reach out to customers before any issues arise. This shows that the company cares and is doing all that it can to ensure a smooth customer experience.
Leads to Referrals: Consumers who have a good experience usually pass on that information to others, whether that's through word-of-mouth to people they know, customer reviews, or social media. This often helps businesses generate new sales.
Boosts Brand: Businesses that show consumers they care through customer service help increase their brand equity. This also leads to more referrals and, therefore, an increase in sales.
Increases Customer Lifetime Value: This refers to the relationship customer service helps establish and solidify with a single customer. When a company provides a single customer with good service, that person is more likely to add to the company's revenue by remaining loyal and making more purchases.
Corporate Culture: Customer service allows businesses to streamline their workflow and promote cooperation among different teams. This includes communication between agents and managers, technical engineers, and production teams. All of this is to help corporations achieve their goals of customer attraction and retention, and increasing sales revenue.
Competitive Advantage: Having a good customer service base sets a company apart from its competition. It boosts the business's reputation and also increases its brand value by showing consumers and competitors that the business values the relationships it has with new and existing customers.


   Traits of Good Customer Service  

It isn't enough to have a customer service plan in place. Rather, it needs to be effective in order to help reap the benefits. But before we look at how to be effective, it's important to explore bad customer service.



Bad customer service is any communication or experience where a consumer feels as though they are let down. This includes negative experiences, such as long wait or hold times, not being able to speak to an agent, being transferred many times, or not being heard. This can lead customers to provide negative reviews and/or begin shopping with a competitor.



So how can this be turned around? There are a few key traits that businesses can apply to their customer service to make it a better experience. Consider the following:



Personalization: Tailoring the experience to each customer is an effective way of practicing good customer service. After all, not everyone is different and has the same needs. Listening to what their needs are can help determine the course of action and the direction of the experience. 
Speed: Businesses should provide their service quickly. If there's a problem, it should be resolved as soon as possible. Customers don't want to wait to get an issue resolved or to have their questions answered. Having said this, there is a fine balance between speed and problem-solving—not getting the customer off the phone or brushing them off without a resolution. This means that efficiency and effectiveness may have to supersede speed in order to provide a great experience.
Option for Self-Service: It's important to allow customers the option to help themselves, whether that's through an automated service or self-service through the checkout. Keep in mind that this should be done only if consumers want it. Forcing everyone to help themselves may alienate those who want to deal with customer service agents.
Listening and Empathy: Customer service only goes so far if the business listens and empathizes with the customer. This requires training and skills, along with a certain degree of compassion.
Being Proactive: One of the key traits of good customer service is being proactive. It's always a good idea to reach out to customers first rather than waiting for a problem to arise. It shows that a company cares. This can be done with a simple follow-up email or phone call. 






The Bureau of Labor Statistics projected customer service representative job growth decline by 4% between 2021 and 2031.


   How to Deliver Great Customer Service  

Studies of customer service have centered on creating the perfect online experience. The first and most difficult factor is the multiplicity of channels. Today's customers expect to get service through whatever app or device they happen to be using at the moment. That may be a mobile device or a laptop, a social media site, a text app, or live chat.



Once again, the focus has been on packaging how-to content and related resources that are designed for self-service. Increasingly sophisticated data analytics also are being used to identify dissatisfied or low-engagement customers. But, as always, the most effective customer service apps need to incorporate human contact, if only as a last resort.


   Customer Service Channels  

There are a number of different channels to deliver customer service. Many companies use more than one way for consumers to reach them, especially larger ones. Smaller businesses may use one or just a few of them. And in the age of social media, it's become even easier to get in touch with businesses to get questions answered and problems resolved.



The following chart highlights some of the most common customer service channels companies can use.









Customer Service Channels




Telephone 
Historically, the most common way for customers to reach a company. 


In-Person
Brick-and-mortar stores can continue offering customer service in person. Although some consumers don't want the hassle of going into a store, there are some who prefer a more personal, face-to-face experience.


Self-Service
This allows consumers to take matters into their own hands by directing the course of the experience based on their own wants and needs.


Email
Even with all the options available, email is considered a go-to method of customer service. It eliminates the need to wait for an agent and allows the customer to explain their situation.


Social Media
Opening up the possibility of communication through different social media channels allows consumers to communicate through the platform(s) of their choice. It also allows others to see their interactions with the company.


Text Messages
Companies can reach out to their customers through text messaging to engage before or after any transactions take place.


Live Chat
This option is generally available through a company's website and is an alternative to connecting over the phone.





   Customer Service and Automation  

For decades, businesses in many industries have sought to reduce personnel costs by automating their processes to the greatest extent possible.



This led many companies to implement systems online and by phone that answer as many questions or resolve as many problems as they can without a human presence. But in the end, there are customer service issues for which human interaction is indispensable, creating a competitive advantage.



Amazon is an example of a company that is trying to automate a vast and complex operation. It has to, given that it delivered 4.75 billion packages to customers in the United States in 2021. Nevertheless, Amazon still offers 24-hour customer service by phone, in addition to email and live chat services.



Most successful businesses recognize the importance of providing outstanding customer service. Courteous and empathetic interaction with a trained customer service representative can mean the difference between losing or retaining a customer.





$39,875

The average annual salary for a customer service representative as of July 21, 2023.


   Customer Services Job Requirements  

Much is expected of customer service representatives. Yet the pay for the job is low. The average salary in 2021 was about $36,920, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.



Some of the job expectations:



Customer service representatives must be accessible, knowledgeable, and courteous. They require excellent listening skills and a willingness to talk through a resolution. Training in conflict resolution can be beneficial.Strong speaking skills are important. For phone staff, this means speaking clearly and slowly while maintaining a calm demeanor even if the customer doesn't.




Why Is Customer Service So Important?
Customer service is a very important part of the business structure. Having a good customer service plan in place contributes to sales, increases brand loyalty, generates referrals, helps retain customers, and provides businesses with a competitive advantage over others in the same industry.




What Are Some of the Most Important Skills of a Customer Service Agent?
Effective customer service agents are skilled at listening and being empathetic. They're also very good at problem solving and being proactive. It's important for them to have a level of professionalism, which means that when things get heated, they can take a step back and don't take anything to heart.




What Are Some Examples of Good Customer Service?
Some of the ways to provide effective customer service include providing a friendly and warm experience, listening, and empathizing. It's also important for customers to feel as though their concerns and problems are valid and that they're being accommodated. Being proactive, not taking anything personally, and following up are also some examples of good customer service.


   The Bottom Line  

Having a customer service plan in place can make or break a company. Putting in a good plan with the right people, proper training, and appropriate channels can lead to more sales, customer loyalty, and referrals. Even though things may be moving in the right direction, corporations shouldn't rest on their laurels. Keeping one step ahead of the game means continuing to find ways to improve and provide an even greater customer experience.
What Is Customer to Customer (C2C)?  

Customer to customer (C2C) is a business model whereby customers can trade with each other, typically in an online environment. Two implementations of C2C markets are auctions and classified advertisements. C2C marketing has soared in popularity with the arrival of the internet and companies such as eBay, Etsy, and Craigslist.





Key Takeaways

Customer to customer (C2C) is a business model that enables customers to trade with each other, frequently in an online environment. C2C businesses are a type of business model that emerged with e-commerce technology and the sharing economy.Online C2C company sites include Craigslist, Etsy, and eBay, which sell products or services through a classified or auction system.Some C2C companies have problems, such as a lack of quality control and payment guarantees.C2C can be contrasted with B2C and B2B business models.


   How Customer to Customer (C2C) Works  

C2C represents a market environment where one customer purchases goods from another customer using a third-party business or platform to facilitate the transaction. C2C companies are a type of business model that emerged with e-commerce technology and the sharing economy.



Customers benefit from the competition for products and often find items that are difficult to locate elsewhere. Also, margins can be higher than traditional pricing methods for sellers because there are minimal costs due to the absence of retailers or wholesalers. C2C sites are convenient because there is no need to visit a brick-and-mortar store. Sellers list their products online, and the buyers come to them.






The "Amazon effect" is named after the popular global online retailer and refers to the competitive gains e-commerce businesses have made as more shoppers make purchases online instead of shopping at brick-and-mortar stores.


   Types of Customer to Customer (C2C) Businesses  

Craigslist is an e-commerce platform that connects people advertising products, services, or situations. Craigslist not only provides a platform for buying, selling, and trading products but posts monthly classified ads, such as employment opportunities and property listings. This platform requires the seller to deliver items directly to the buyer in person.



Etsy allows company owners to create their custom website on which to market their products to consumers. The C2C site offers guidance and tools for growing a business that ranges in price according to a company's stage of development. There's also a "Sell on Etsy" app that helps to manage orders, listings, and customer queries efficiently.



eBay features two types of product listings: fixed-price items and auction items. Fixed price items can be purchased quickly by selecting the Buy It Now button. Auction items feature a Place Bid button for entering bids and show a current bid price. These items are open to bids for a predetermined time and are declared "sold" to the highest bidder.


   Revenue and Growth of the C2C Market  

C2C websites and similar platforms make money from fees charged to sellers for listing items for sale, adding on promotional features, and facilitating credit card transactions. These C2C transactions typically involve used products sold through a classified or auction system.



The C2C market is projected to grow in the future because of its cost-effectiveness. The cost of using third parties is declining, and the number of products for sale by consumers is steadily rising. Retailers consider it to be an essential business model because of the popularity of social media and other online channels. These channels showcase specific products already owned by consumers and increase demand, which drives increased online traffic to C2C platforms.



However, C2C has problems such as a lack of quality control or payment guarantees. In some cases, there is little support for credit card transactions, although the emergence of PayPal and other such payment systems over the years has helped simplify payments on C2C platforms.


   Special Considerations  

The C2C marketplace has increased over time, as more companies have entered the space to facilitate C2C transactions. Many companies target niche markets and list specific products to attract unique consumers.



The C2C marketplace is increasing in popularity among sellers looking to maximize their sales potential by connecting with customers that they otherwise would not reach using traditional selling methods.



Online platforms such as Etsy, eBay, and Craigslist appeal to customers who can locate mostly any product or service at a price they are willing to pay.




What Are Some Examples of C2C Companies?
In e-commerce, some big names in C2C include eBay, Etsy, Craigslist, Ali Express, and Amazon Marketplace. Some C2C payments companies include Venmo, Paypal, and Zelle.




How Does C2C Differ From P2P?
C2C stands for customer-to-customer; P2P stands for peer-to-peer. Both concepts involve consumers or individuals dealing with one another. The main difference is that with C2C, there is a company or other third party in between the buyer and the seller (or sender and receiver). In a P2P platform, counterparties transact directly with one another without that intermediary.




What Is a B2C Company?
Most companies around are B2C (business-to-consumer). This means that a business produces and markets a product for household consumption. This differs from B2B (business-to-business) or C2C (customer-to-customer).
What Is a Cyclical Industry?  

A cyclical industry is a type of industry that is sensitive to the business cycle, such that revenues generally are higher in periods of economic prosperity and expansion and are lower in periods of economic downturn and contraction. Companies in cyclical industries can deal with this type of volatility by implementing employee layoffs and cuts to compensate during bad times and paying bonuses and hiring en masse in good times.


   Understanding Cyclical Industry  

Cyclical industries are sensitive to business cycles, so downturns in the cycle force consumers to prioritize expenses and potentially pare some costs that are not essential. Therefore, industries that focus on nonessential products face the biggest risk of revenue loss when economic contraction takes hold. By contrast, industries such as utilities tend to weather economic storms much better, because no matter how bad times are, most people find a way to pay their light bill.


   The Business Cycle  

The business cycle is comprised of four discrete phases. During the expansionary phase, productivity grows, unemployment shrinks and stock markets tend to rise. Because more people are employed during this phase and their investment portfolios are growing, they have more discretionary income and are less reticent about spending it. The peak follows the expansionary phase. At this point, the economy has reached the end of expansion and subsequently begins its contractionary phase.



Discretionary income falls during contraction, as more people are unemployed and productivity is lower. Recessions occur during the contractionary phase, though not all periods of contraction result in recessions. In the United States, two consecutive quarterly declines in gross domestic product (GDP) represent the most common criteria of an economic recession. The final phase of the business cycle is the trough. This phase is where the economy bottoms out before starting the cycle anew and commencing another contractionary phase.


   Examples of Cyclical Industries  

Industries involved in the production of durable goods, such as raw materials and heavy equipment, tend to be cyclical. Consumer discretionary goods, a sector focused on products and services that people buy with discretionary income, also is highly sensitive to the business cycle, because discretionary expenses are easier to cut from a consumer's budget during hard times rather than essential costs.



For example, the airline industry is a fairly cyclical industry. In good economic times, people have more disposable income, so they are more willing to take vacations and make use of air travel. Conversely, during bad economic times, people are much more cautious about spending. As a result, they tend to take more fiscally conservative vacations closer to home (if they go at all) and avoid expensive air travel.
What Is a Cyclical Stock?  

A cyclical stock is a stock that's price is affected by macroeconomic or systematic changes in the overall economy. Cyclical stocks are known for following the cycles of an economy through expansion, peak, recession, and recovery. Most cyclical stocks involve companies that sell consumer discretionary items that consumers buy more during a booming economy but spend less on during a recession.





Key Takeaways

Cyclical stocks are affected by macroeconomic changes, where its returns follow the cycles of an economy.Cyclical stocks are generally the opposite of defensive stocks. Cyclical stocks include discretionary companies, such as Starbucks or Nike, while defensive stocks are staples, such as Campbell Soup.Cyclical stocks usually have higher volatility and are expected to produce higher returns during periods of economic strength.


   Understanding Cyclical Stocks  

Companies that have cyclical stocks include car manufacturers, airlines, furniture retailers, clothing stores, hotels, and restaurants. When the economy is doing well, people can afford to buy new cars, upgrade their homes, shop, and travel.



When the economy does poorly, these discretionary expenses are some of the first things consumers cut. If a recession is severe enough, cyclical stocks can become completely worthless, and companies may go out of business.






Investors should be careful about their positions in cyclical stocks but shouldn't avoid them altogether.



Cyclical stocks rise and fall with the economic cycle. This seeming predictability in the movement of these stocks’ prices leads some investors to attempt to time the market. They buy the shares at a low point in the business cycle and sell them at a high point.



Investors should use caution about the weight of cyclical stocks in their portfolios at any given point in time. While that may be true, it doesn't mean investors should steer clear of these stocks completely.


   Special Considerations  

Cyclical stocks are viewed as more volatile than noncyclical or defensive stocks, which tend to be more stable during periods of economic weakness. However, they offer greater potential for growth because they tend to outperform the market during periods of economic strength. Investors seeking long-term growth with managed volatility tend to balance their portfolios with a mix of cyclical stocks and defensive stocks.



Investors frequently choose to use exchange-traded funds (ETFs) to gain exposure to cyclical stocks while expanding economic cycles. The SPDR ETF series offers one of the most popular cyclical ETF investments in the Consumer Discretionary Select Sector Fund (XLY).


   Cyclical vs. Noncyclical Stocks  

The performance of cyclical stocks tend to correlate with the economy. But the same can't be said about noncyclical stocks. These stocks tend to beat the market regardless of the economic trend, even when there's a slowdown in the economy.



Noncyclical stocks are also called defensive stocks. These stocks encompass the consumer staples category, with goods and services that people continue to buy through all types of business cycles, even economic downturns.



Companies that deal with food, gas, and water are examples of those that have noncyclical stocks, such as Walmart. Adding noncyclical stocks to a portfolio can be a great strategy for investors as it helps hedge against losses sustained from cyclical companies during an economic slowdown.


   Example of Cyclical Stocks  

Cyclical stocks are often further delineated by durables, nondurables, and services. Durable goods companies are involved in the manufacture or distribution of physical goods that have an expected life span of more than three years. Companies that operate in this segment include automakers such as Ford, appliance manufacturers like Whirlpool, and furniture makers such as Ethan Allen.



The measure of durable goods orders is an indicator of future economic performance. When durable goods orders are up in a particular month, it may be an indication of stronger economic activity in the ensuing months.



Nondurable goods companies produce or distribute soft goods that have an expected life span of fewer than three years. Examples of companies that operate in this segment are sports apparel manufacturer Nike, and retail stores such as Nordstrom and Target.



Services is a separate category of cyclical stocks because these companies do not manufacture or distribute physical goods. Instead, they provide services that facilitate travel, entertainment, and other leisure activities for consumers. Walt Disney (DIS) is one of the best-known companies operating in this space. Also falling into this category are companies that operate in the new digital area of streaming media, such as Netflix (NFLX).
What Is Cyclical Unemployment?  

Cyclical unemployment is the component of overall unemployment that results directly from cycles of economic upturn and downturn. Unemployment typically rises during recessions and declines during economic expansions. Moderating cyclical unemployment during recessions is a major motivation behind the study of economics and the goal of the various policy tools that governments employ to stimulate the economy.





Key Takeaways

Cyclical unemployment is the impact of economic recession or expansion on the total unemployment rate.Cyclical unemployment generally rises during recessions and falls during economic expansions and is a major focus of economic policy.Cyclical unemployment is one factor among many that contribute to total unemployment, including seasonal, structural, frictional, and institutional factors.












Investopedia / Jiaqi Zhou


   Understanding Cyclical Unemployment  

Cyclical unemployment relates to the irregular ups and downs, or cyclical trends in growth and production, as measured by the gross domestic product (GDP), that occur within the business cycle. Most business cycles eventually reverse, with the downturn shifting to an upturn, followed by another downturn.



Economists describe cyclical unemployment as the result of businesses not having enough demand for labor to employ all those who are looking for work at that point within the business cycle. When demand for a product and service declines, there can be a corresponding reduction in supply production to compensate. As the supply levels are reduced, fewer employees are required to meet the lower standard of production volume. Those workers who are no longer needed will be released by the company, resulting in their unemployment.



When economic output falls, the business cycle is low and cyclical unemployment will rise. Conversely, when business cycles are at their peak, cyclical unemployment will tend to be low, because there is a high demand for labor.


   Example of Cyclical Unemployment  

During the financial crisis in 2008, the housing bubble burst and the Great Recession began. As more and more borrowers failed to meet the debt obligations associated with their homes, and qualifications for new loans become more stringent, the demand for new construction declined.



With the overall number of unemployed climbing, and more borrowers unable to maintain payments on their homes, additional properties were subject to foreclosure, driving demand for construction even lower. As a result, approximately 1.5 million workers in the construction field became unemployed.﻿﻿ This rise in unemployment was cyclical unemployment.



As the economy recovered over the following years, the financial sector returned to profitability and began to make more loans. People began buying homes again or remodeling existing ones, causing the prices of real estate to climb once again. Construction jobs returned to meet this renewed demand in the housing sector, and cyclical unemployment declined.






Multiple types of unemployment often exist at the same time.


   Cyclical vs. Other Types of Unemployment  

Cyclical unemployment is one of the main classes of unemployment as recognized by economists. Other types include structural, seasonal, frictional, and institutional unemployment.


  Structural Unemployment  

Rather than being caused by the ebbs and flows of the business cycle, structural unemployment is caused by fundamental shifts in the makeup of the economy—for example, jobs lost in the buggy-whip sector once automobiles came to dominate. It is a mismatch between the supply and demand for certain skills in the labor market.


  Frictional Unemployment  

Frictional unemployment is short-term joblessness caused by the actual process of leaving one job to start another, including the time needed to look for a new job. It naturally occurs even in a growing, stable economy, and is actually beneficial, as it indicates that workers are seeking better positions.


  Institutional Unemployment  

Institutional unemployment consists of the component of unemployment attributable to institutional arrangements, such as high minimum wage laws, discriminatory hiring practices, or high rates of unionization. It results from long-term or permanent institutional factors and incentives in the economy.


  Seasonal Unemployment  

Seasonal unemployment occurs as demands shift from one season to the next. This category can include any workers whose jobs are dependent on a particular season. Official unemployment statistics will often be adjusted, or smoothed, to account for seasonal unemployment. This is known as a “seasonal adjustment.”



For example, teachers may be considered seasonal, based on the fact that most schools in the U.S. cease or limit operations during the summer. Similarly, construction workers living in areas where construction during the cold months is challenging may lose work in winter. Certain retail stores hire seasonal workers during the winter holiday season to better manage increased sales, then release those workers after the holidays when demand lessens.


   Special Considerations  

In most cases, several types of unemployment exist at the same time. With the exception of cyclical unemployment, the other classes can occur even at the peak ranges of business cycles, when the economy is said to be at or near full employment.




How Is the Rate of Unemployment Calculated?
The U.S. unemployment rate is calculated by dividing the number of unemployed persons by the number of persons in the labor force (employed or unemployed) and multiplying that figure by 100.




What Is Considered a High Rate of Unemployment?
Unemployment rates that reach 10% are considered high. During the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, the unemployment rate reached 14.8%.




What Is the Difference Between Unemployment and Underemployment?
Underemployment is a measurement of the number of laborers in an economy who are unwillingly working in low-skill and low-paying jobs, in addition to those only working part-time who are unable to secure full-time jobs.
